ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u2	Mr Vice Prime Minister, after 27 years of being the leader of a group in the Flemish Parliament, I still have that old habit. I would like to ask you a few questions about the statements of the chairman of the largest majority party, Bart De Wever, which he made from New York. The question is who the übertourist of the week is. Is that Bart De Wever who from New York sheds light on national politics or is it the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, Mr De Crem, who ultimately represents the interests of our country abroad? Trade traveler, vacuum cleaner salesman, much wasn't enough to capitalize on your party mate the past week. He was named Salesman of the nv Belgium. Frankly, I believe that Bart De Wever is right when he comes to the conclusion that foreign trade is not a competence of the federal Parliament but of the Flemish Government. I know you feel the same way about that deep down in your heart. The question is not whether he has asked the right questions, the question is whether he is the right man to ask these questions. After all, he is one of the architects of this government, he is your coalition partner, he is the one who represents the largest party in this government and has formed this government, and therefore has also appointed Mr De Crem as Secretary of State under your authority. My question is therefore obvious and clear. How do you respond to these statements? Will you remain faithful to your positions as former Prime Minister of Flanders or will you play a new role, that of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Trade?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Bart De Wever is in New York together with a camera crew or seven, and the Fleming can enjoy his travel diary every day. Bart De Wever capitulated Pieter De Crem there: he has openly asked the question whether the job of Pieter De Crem, Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, is useful. Bart De Wever calls Pieter De Crem a personal friend, but with such friends man no longer needs enemies. It's little collegial, it's a blow below the belt, but above all, it's another sign of argument and bickering in your government. This is all at the expense of time, political energy and attention to the essence that should be addressed in our country: how do we make our country a better country, a better Belgium? It is quite hypocritical of the N-VA, who is getting bored of being a real power party, with all the relevant political games, because who was at the table when the position of Secretary of State for Foreign Trade was decided? The N-VA, Bart De Wever himself. Apart from the polemics and yet also from the hypocrisy, it is useful to ask whether such a separate function is necessary. Together, Green and Ecolo want to make a constructive proposal today to reconnect Foreign Trade with Foreign Affairs, as has always been the case in the past. That brings two huge benefits. Firstly, there is efficiency gains. The De Crem cabinet costs 4 300 euros a day. We can save on that and that would be good. Secondly, it would also allow us to pursue a more coherent, stronger human rights policy. Pieter De Crem is on an island, Foreign Trade. He says in the press that he also has little to do with human rights. Integrate this into one figure, one domain, Foreign Affairs, and at least we can put more ethics into our foreign trade policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you do not ask me questions every time someone travels. I would like to make a number of points very clear. Firstly, for this federal government, it is essential that we do everything we can to stimulate economic activity in Belgium and attract foreign investment. I hope that everyone, the majority and the opposition, agrees with that. Last time it was said here: we don't care about the color of the cat, as long as she catches mice. I also hope that everyone agrees with that. We need to create jobs, have economic activities, and we need to attract foreign investment. Secondly, in the formation of this government, all government parties approved the composition of the future federal government. I think it's important to remind you of this. Thirdly, I think Pieter De Crem is doing an excellent job. I have a complete overview of all his missions here. I'll get you that information if you want it. What is even more important is the policy statement he has made here in Parliament. I quote: "The task of the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade is to provide maximum assistance to businesses through an inclusive approach and in the interests of our economic growth and prosperity, and to do so by fully supporting regional export initiatives, updating and refining the instruments at federal level for export financing where necessary and defending the interests of our companies in economic civil society at international level, in a spirit of cooperation federalism. That's what Pieter De Crem is doing right now. I should like to close, Mr President. I have looked into what the discussions have resulted from Pieter De Crem's policy statement and policy paper. I hope you've done the same. Do you know how many statements have been made? I may be mistaken or my information may be incomplete, but the Flemish interest made no comment during the discussion of the policy paper and Green only asked a question about the princely missions and human rights. If you're blowing off the high tower here, you should have done it then and not now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u5	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, you must not get mad at me, you must be angry at the man who is staying in New York, Bart De Wever. About your party mate Pieter De Crem, he asked the question: "What does this man do all day?" He's the man who should be loyal to you, not me. I officially belong to the opposition, Bart De Wever is unofficially a member of the opposition. That's the big difference. Save your annoyance and your frustration, your anger and your anger for your coalition companion, Bart De Wever, and not for me. Mr Vice Prime Minister, perhaps a few words from the past, which you have said in the Flemish Parliament: "In foro interno, in foro externalo," you said as Prime Minister. All the powers that the Flemish Government can exercise must be exercised both abroad and in international relations. I was hoping you'd be faithful to this as a deputy prime minister in the federal government. You're pointing your arrows at the opposition. That's easy. That's the lightning rod, but I know you have an internal problem in this government. This government, this majority, hangs together like loose sand. I wish you every success, because with a coalition partner like Bart De Wever, you no longer need an opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u6	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we have addressed the question to the Prime Minister, so I assume you are speaking on behalf of the entire government. In this sense, you have clearly flagged back the chairman of the largest Flemish party. It's just unfortunate that we already know it won't be the last time. The government is losing itself more and more in such bickering. Apparently it goes from one side of the ocean to the other side of the ocean. Nothing really stops the government. The reason why there is so little debate about Pieter De Crem's policy, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is that his policy has little to do with it. It is effectively better to integrate Foreign Trade within Foreign Affairs. We have indeed asked questions about human rights, but fortunately, because Belgium deserves an ethical foreign trade policy. That is why we do not understand that you do not want to comment on our suggestion. After all, it would save money. The De Crem cabinet costs 4 300 euros a day. Furthermore, the government should ensure a foreign trade policy based on labour rights in Azerbaijan and Turkey, where Pieter De Crem has been, on human rights, international environmental standards and so on. The savings I was talking about, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, are savings that would not, for once, affect the weakest in our society. Maybe you should try it sometime, and you might like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u7	Mr President, Minister, this afternoon our group had a discussion on what to call someone who is constantly taking turns. We did not actually agree, but we do agree that you are taking a turn again this week. You have, under pressure from civil society, and fortunately, relaxed the measure for people who are entitled to integration benefits. Young people leaving school with a diploma are therefore entitled to an integration allowance from now on. You now add certain certificates. Don't get me wrong, I'm glad you took that turn and that you made that relaxation, but what I can't understand, Minister, is that the measure that remains is only affecting the weakest of the whole group. I honestly don't understand why. Young people who fail to obtain a diploma or certificate at the end of the school year are no longer entitled to an integration allowance. According to the ACV's figures, it's about three thousand young people. The criticism of the ACV is justified, in particular that these young people will disappear from the radar. If I am a graduate young person who wants to register with the VDAB as a job seeker, who has to assist me in finding a job, and if I do not receive any more employment benefits, then I would not see why I still have to do so. Yesterday, a study by the VDAB was presented. That is right, Minister. I'm sure you've read that study too. Do you know that in the last two years, 16% fewer young people have left school without a diploma? That is without your measure, Minister. That's good news. If you want to encourage young people to obtain a diploma, you will find an ally in us, but you will not encourage young people by taking their benefit. You have to do that through education. So my question is very simple. I do not ask you to explain the relaxation you are doing, but I ask you whether you are prepared to take a turn for those young people as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u8	Mr President, Mr Kitir, there is no question of taking turns here. This government has made it clear from the outset that it wants to make the integration allowance an activation measure. This means that we encourage young people to obtain a diploma, a certificate or a certificate. You must, of course, see this as one of the measures in a comprehensive package, in which the regions play a very important role in ensuring their maximum achievement. We said at the time that we would consult with colleagues from Education and Work at regional level to determine which diplomas, certificates and certificates are eligible. We have reached agreement on this with all the Communities and the Regions. There is a list of what is eligible, which has been drawn up very carefully. There may still be young people leaving school without all the elements listed on that list. This is something we must continue to support, together with the regions of the outermost regions. I understand that further steps are being taken in Flanders as a result of the discussion on the Learning Law Action Plan. It is not right to claim that a certain group of young people are left entirely to their fate. I believe, however, that this is an additional challenge for the regions and, if my information is correct, the regions are working on it. It is not merely the case that the integration allowance has become an activation measure; this must be considered together with other measures taken from education. Finally, as with any measure, one must monitor here after one year. It is necessary to examine whether it is right for a number of young people to disappear completely in the fog and whether or not appropriate measures are being taken. I'd like to take that on, see where we stand next year. Now, however, I hope that the regions will be able to continue working on this list and that they will take further steps to provide the weaker young people with the necessary opportunities. After all, 30% of those who enter the labour market without a diploma are still unemployed after one year. For those who do have a diploma, that percentage falls to 12 % and to 7 %. That is what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u9	Minister, what you are saying is correct; it is indeed important that young people obtain a diploma because it increases their chances of success in the labour market. However, it is not right for you to say that you would not leave young people who fail to obtain a diploma or certificate to their fate. You will leave them to their fate! You say that you and the regions will see how you will support them, but you do not know where they are! They're disappearing off the radar. Three thousand young people are involved, Minister. Make sure that they receive an integration allowance and go to work with them together with the regions and education during the period of integration. Now you leave them to their fate. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u10	Mr President, Minister, three weeks ago, I asked you about the problem of nighttime hours and the need to correct this legislation in order to make our businesses more competitive. Indeed, we are moving from an industry-based model of work to a much more service-oriented model in the years to come. This new model will require more flexibility, flexibility, lower labour costs and higher quality. On Tuesday, you started working with the social partners on this major labour reform. Four areas were defended: a career account, the organisation of working time, the employment of those over 45 years of age and psychosocial risks. So my questions are as follows. Minister, what are the results already achieved today? Could you ease my concerns about the organization of working time? In France, under the socialist regime, there was a decision to reduce working time to 35 hours in a very coercive way. It is obviously not this kind of measure that was addressed in the government agreement. Will the future model be an incentive – I am thinking among other things of telework – or rather a coercive one, imposing on companies a whole series of measures in relation to the organisation of working time? Finally, as far as the career account is concerned, you know that the question of portability is a challenge for us. It is important to be able to allow this career account. At the MR, we defend him. However, there is a danger. It is because some workers, who will gain a very important career at the beginning of their career, risk, if they change employers, being penalized against another employer who would not agree to bear the burdens inherent in the first employer. I therefore fear that this flexibility may turn against certain workers or employers. Minister, what is your view on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Clarinval, you are right, we held a round table on 9 June with all the social partners on the work that can be done. It is an eminently important theme, very delicate and very complex. You also highlighted the four ideas we have launched to start discussions with the social partners and other experts. In response to our request, the social partners have formulated others. We have now asked the Group of 10 and the National Labour Council to organize the work and to have a second round table in November to take stock of the situation and the status of the dossier relating to the work that can be done. As you mentioned, many of the very complex themes. I hope that, thanks to the social dialogue that will be conducted, we will be able to see at the second round table in November that the social partners will be in favour of organising the work that can be done in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I count on your vigilance to ensure that the social partners commit themselves to an incentive rather than a coercive model. As Liberals, we attach great importance to this. I draw your attention to portability. Hell is paved with good intentions. Wanting to give satisfactions about the beginning of career risks being penalizing for the end of career. I count on your vigilance to prevent the social partners from embarking on these negative paths.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I was surprised to learn in the press what is being said about radar speed control. Of course, police areas are used to applying legal corrections for the lowest levels. Some police areas have measures that exceed these corrections. The current idea would be to ignore these changes and apply zero tolerance. In a road safety system, it's very smart. But at the same time, in order to limit the workload, you would have allowed the public prosecutor's offices, following a meeting with the College of Attorneys General, to estimate that from the moment a certain amount of flashes is reached, we can dispense with continuing in the month, in the year, in the weeks. I don't know how to practice. Is that true, Minister? While I fully agree with zero tolerance, this idea of imposed quotas is already far less understandable, except once again to imagine that justice does not envisage giving itself the means to prosecute offences, whatever they may be. Tomorrow, will we be prevented from prosecuting in the correctional courts because we will not have enough magistrates or clerks? That's disturbing! I'd like to hear from you about this. If so, have you consulted the police areas? Have you become aware of the road safety measure you are putting in danger in this way? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u14	Mr Brotcorne, you are asking me whether zero tolerance is compatible with quotas. Zero tolerance means that any offence found is punishable, but not that any offence is found. If that were the case, we would live in a police state. We are obviously in favour of zero tolerance for speeding. I can refer to the answers I have already given to you in the Committee on Justice on 16 December and 11 February. I haven't changed my mind since then. Police prosecutors must make priority choices in terms of prosecution, ideally in consultation with the police authorities. The King's Prosecutor is already involved in a consultation with the administrative police authorities in the event of installation of fixed equipment, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 11 September 1997. The directives you are talking about do not prohibit police areas from making findings beyond the established thresholds and therefore do not require them to turn off automatic radars. They only explain to the police that the prosecutor's treatment capacity is not unlimited. Such a formula therefore reduces the unnecessary tasks of the police and prosecution services, linked to the administrative procedure of the classifications without follow-up, and restores an effective and credible prosecution policy. To the extent that this happens under conditions at random, i.e. discretionary and arbitrary, equality is respected. There is no attempt to acquit or punish others. The quota formula is obviously not an end in itself. On the contrary, it must lead to a fundamental reflection on the treatment of such offences. Now partially regionalised, it remains necessary until procedures such as cross-border enforcement and payment order are implemented. The development of these projects is continuing actively. This will help to empower mail shipments and reduce the number of cases brought to the police court. It is indeed the one who will challenge a payment order that will have to take the initiative to bring the case before the court. All this should also make it possible to earn more revenue for the state budget and for the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u15	Minister, your answer surprises me somewhat. Indeed, road safety or flashing is already a lottery in itself. And now you want to organize this lottery by introducing quotas. Whoever has the chance to get to the right time will not risk being punished. This practice is totally discriminatory. In addition, discrimination will spread from one borough or police area to another because the criteria will not be the same. One will therefore continue to pursue, the other will not. At what point will it be considered that the prosecutor's office has reached its processing capacity? On the other hand, you implicitly admitted that you did not want to give prosecutors the means to deal with offences, which, in a rule of law – and not in a police state, minister – is truly scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question is somewhat in line with the previous speaker's question. The flash cameras have been burning lately. There will be more trajectories and more ANPR cameras. The police and, above all, the police can no longer follow with the fines of all of the offenders. For this reason, some zones have already increased the tolerance rate to up to 20 kilometres per hour on motorways in the past. This is not an optimal solution for us. Minister, your proposal to achieve a uniform tolerance of 6 kilometres per hour is certainly a step in the right direction. In this way, everyone is equal before the law and legal certainty is created. We also believe that citizens should know what is and must not be allowed to do so. The monthly quotas used by some public prosecutors, namely to stop flashing because the number of offences becomes too high, are not really a good solution, because they result in impunity. We believe that drivers should simply be fined, at any time and anywhere in the country, in a uniform manner, because road safety is a top priority for us. Today we read that Flemish Minister for Mobility, Mr Ben Weyts, proposes to avoid quotas by introducing regional administrative sanctions for the smaller speeding offences. Above all, our group wants to avoid quotas by focusing on the full automation and digitisation of the collection process and by focusing on the core tasks of our police and the public prosecutor, thereby reducing their burden. My fellow Members, Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, have already put questions and made proposals on this matter in committee. So, Minister, we have three questions for you. First of all, do you not think that there can be significant efficiency gains in the case of the Justice Department through far-reaching digitisation and automation, so that all speeding fines can be collected? Are you working on that piste? Secondly, what do you think of our group's position on transferring the collection of fines to the private sector? We have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. Thirdly, are you prepared with your party to depenalise the minor speeding violations in some sort of GAS legislation, if I may put it that way? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u17	Mrs Gabriels, your questions require me to enter a Community imbroglio, which I do not like very much. However, I will do my best. In reply to your first question, I can tell you that a number of legislative initiatives are under way for the collection of traffic fines and their efficiency, such as the order for payment and the procedure for the immediate collection of traffic fines for offences committed by foreigners, and even a longer procedure called cross-border enforcement. We're trying to relieve the public prosecutors by going straight to the police courts. That is in full swing, and this will be fully reflected in the forthcoming draft laws. In your second question you would like to know my opinion on your proposals regarding outsourcing to private or outsourcing. Ma'am, I didn't expect to answer that question. So I'm also a little careful with my answer to that. When speaking of outsourcing to the private sector, all kinds of demons always wake up when giving an answer. So I will reserve my answer and I will read your bill with great attention. Thirdly, on the GAS and regional sanctioning, I must point out that the Law on State Reform of 2014 amended the Special Law of 8 August 1980. Article 6 (1), XII, 1° of that special law states that the sanctioning of speed limits on public roads which are not motorways now belongs to the Regions. In view of the principle of verticality, this is an exclusive competence of the Regions. Of course, it goes straight ahead. In the future, however, the Regions have exclusive competence to impose administrative and penalty sanctions for speeding offences outside the motorways. I'm not in favour of penalising everything. In future, however, the federal police will have to lend themselves to the type of sanctions imposed on us by the Regions. We'll help with the sanctioning. I understand that the statements made by Minister Weyts, whom I have not spoken to, are in that direction. Together with the College of Attorneys General, I will always strive for uniformity, taking into account the local circumstances, to which I have already referred in my reply to Mr Brotcorne. I have also replied very comprehensively to him on this point, which I would have liked to have done now, but there is no time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u18	Your speaking time was well exceeded, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Once again, we believe that the government should continue to focus on automation in order to relieve the burden on the public prosecutors. Even if the capacity is not infinite, it remains important that every Belgian in our country be treated in the same way. It would be a significant step in the right direction for us in the key tasks debate, which has already been discussed in the majority consultation if our legislative proposal were to be adopted. Our bill provides for both the police and the judiciary for such collection tasks, which we simply need to deal with administratively. I shall return to the Gas proposal of Minister Weyts. There is undoubtedly a need for consultation. Perhaps we should also look at the local authorities that already have GAS regulations. It would give us the advantage that municipalities and cities that are committed to road safety and do a lot of speed checks can reap the benefits of the work done and thus be rewarded. I look forward to your group's reaction to our legislative proposal on privatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u20	Madam Secretary, we know that the funding of the emergency services is insufficient today. That you will include them in your major reform of hospital funding is also known. However, we cannot and should not agree that there is a large-scale fraud in billing. In no less than one in three invoices is apparently cheated, according to an investigation by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. For example, consultations are charged from specialists who have not seen the patient. What I find even worse is that there is also fraud with the referral letters of the general practitioner. There have been a lot of studies in recent times about the improper use of the urgency. We now see that the urgency itself is actually involved in this. This is bad for health care, it is bad for affordability and for quality. If we want to ensure it, a proper lead is essential. I fully understand the financial tensions in the emergency services. Not all errors in billing are likely to be deliberate, but we cannot accept the fact that tax money is being used to such an extent in social security. It would even amount to EUR 4 million, according to the audit authority. That is why, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you two questions. Firstly, the RIZIV recently recovered EUR 78 000 from one hospital in such a case. However, that is peanuts compared to the total amount that is currently involved. My question is therefore whether there will be a framework within which the RIZIV can recover more and more quickly. Secondly, I understand that the controls are being stepped up and that you are looking at the bigger picture. Our group is wondering whether it is not necessary to step up action against those hospitals where fraud is structural. I do not think it is possible to explain this to the public at a time when everyone has to save money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that every one of us in this House has had the opportunity, one day in his life, to call on an emergency service in a hospital setting. We can be proud of the services provided. The urgency is sometimes extremely important. However, a report recently published by the Medical Assessment and Control Service identifies some of the dysfunctions that are very costly to the community. For example, at the present time, many patients turn to emergency services when they are unlikely to do so. Certainly half of the patients should not be in hospital emergency service. In some cases it was very difficult to identify caregivers. Double billing was sometimes established in the event of an emergency patient being transferred from one hospital to another, whereas there is normally no reason for this. In more than 90% of cases, the care provided by doctors in training was charged under the names of other providers. Finally, some hospitals have the unfortunate habit of working with out-of-emergency medical specialists when this is not always necessary. Minister, I know that you are very busy with a plan to refinance hospitals, a chapter of which is devoted to the problem of emergencies. What steps are you going to take to address these drifts until your plan is in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u22	Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined the problem. One in three bills in the emergency billing a doctor without the doctor seeing the patient. These are numbers from 2011 and these are not failures diverse. May I have your attention, please? There's a lot of noise in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u23	That's right. Mr. Calvo! You're not just being listened to. Mrs Muylle has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u24	Madam Minister, in 2011 it is not a failure to establish a thousand irregularities on three thousand invoices in three days. If we were to extrapolate this to recent years, this happens very frequently. We are talking about millions of euros of lost income. I'm really mad about that. This is about forgery of writing, about improper use of public funds. I also read reactions saying that the emergency and hospitals are underfunded today. For me, this can't be an excuse, no justification for doing something like that. Madam Minister, I know that you will reply that you are working today on a study, an ongoing mission to the Knowledge Centre, to reform the emergency services and see how they can otherwise be financed. That is also an important point in your plan for the revision of funding, in which we support you, but this is about 2011 and then you were not competent. Now this comes to light, years later. Madam Secretary, what do you intend to do about this improper use, this forgery of writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u25	Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Muylle, Mr Thiéry, within his evaluation mission, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service carried out a study on the Belgian emergency services. A sample check was also carried out in 2013 and 2014 which was included in the 2014 annual report of the service. First of all, I would like to say that the word 'fraud' cannot be read in the report on this subject, contrary to what the general press reports suggest. The evaluation examined a number of work and treatment processes in the emergency services and therefore assessed certain regulatory aspects relating to emergency services. Among other things, it was for the reason that an emergency service was consulted. How does the information flow from the emergency service to the general practitioner? What attestation and, of course, invoicing is happening? Have these people actually been to the patient or has there been another doctor with that patient? They say there's been billed without seeing a doctor. They've seen a doctor, but another one. There's still a difference. It doesn't matter, it's described in the report. One of these observations is that, on a sample of 1,363 files, there is a difference in 431 files between the person charging the benefits and the claimant. There are various qualifications of emergency physicians with differences in their fees. One can see an upcoding so that, in all these cases, it is always the fees corresponding to those of the highest qualification of doctor that are charged. The highest possible fee was billed. Zorgnet Vlaanderen and the Belgian association of emergency doctors both know the problem and want to cooperate in finding a solution. The Medical Assessment and Control Service has already taken action and is continuing the awareness-raising campaign launched earlier. I am confident that hospitals and physicians will take the Service's message to heart and adapt their practices. In a later phase, this fall, the Service will conduct and strengthen new controls. If necessary, the checks will also be followed by sanctions in order to allow an expected and desired improvement. So we will not explain it, we will do so. As part of the presentation of the plan of approach to the reform of hospital funding in the Committee on Health, I have also indicated that amended funding for emergency services is a long-term focus. In the course of 2016 there will be concrete proposals that are still under discussion. This will focus, inter alia, on financing the characteristic characteristics of emergency services in terms of permanence and continuity of care rather than on financing each individual performance. The interaction with the general practitioners or the general practitioner's wards is also fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand, of course, that you're making some nuances. As I have said, not every abuse happens deliberately. I also understand that funding needs to be addressed. We must ensure that we start with sound financing so that we can also be billed correctly, but I insist that we have to be very strict about this. Adequate monitoring must be carried out. I'll follow that up with you. In any case, it is unacceptable for money to be spilled out of health care, as some have shown, and for the principle of general practitioners' guidance to reduce the improper use of emergency services to be trampled on. So you will agree with me that at least that money can be spent better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, under no circumstances is it a question of calling into question the services provided by the emergency services, nor do I doubt your goodwill. You said that the word "fraud" was not included in the report and that perhaps it should not be mentioned. I would point out, however, that this word has been used in the press, which is why it is necessary to put things in place. In our view, it is essential to work quickly on three axes. You mentioned two of them. There is, on the one hand, the hospital axis. Where there are rules, they must be respected, whether in terms of care provision or invoicing. On the other hand, you mentioned what I call "the axis of doctors". In this connection, I would like to insist that more attention be given to the principle of the improvement of childcare services, certainly in rural areas where the problems are relatively important. Finally, I also believe that an information service for the patient would be helpful in explaining when there is a real need to report to a hospital-based child care service, rather than using a child care service or a care physician. Here too, a certain amount of work has to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I think you are right to say that we must activate the controls. We must also work on a general plan to improve the financing of the emergency. When reading the study, it is noted that 6 out of 10 cases do not really belong in the emergency. I regret, however, that hospitals will receive a letter in 2015 to indicate misuse of funds, while the RIZIV carried out the checks in this area in 2011. I find this really vengeful. Madam Minister, we face very important challenges with regard to the financing and refinancing of hospitals. I hope that everyone will take responsibility for that. If you don't do this, it won't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u29	Mr. Speaker, Minister, my question is therefore to Minister Reynders, whose absence I regret, but I know that he has diplomatic obligations. On 26 October 2015, Belgium will submit its report on Belgian human rights policy to the UN as part of the Second Universal Periodic Review (UPR). In this way, tomorrow the Foreign Ministry will be hearing from civil society, which will point to our country's shortcomings in this area. When we read the draft report, our hopes were great. I quote: "The promotion and protection of human rights is an integral part of Belgium's foreign and national policy. The involvement of UPR civil society organisations is a key priority." However, as a result of parliamentary questions raised in various Hemicycles, we have learned that Belgium's report will be limited to the recommendations accepted in 2011, i.e. 88 out of 121. In other words, the issue of national minorities will not even be addressed. In this way, resolution 1621 of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights will not be respected. It is extremely challenging to learn that Belgium will communicate its position to the United Nations in two stages – for the first time at the end of October and a second time at a later date unknown – calling on civil society to transmit its contributions directly to OHCHR. In doing so, the Minister for Foreign Affairs discharges his responsibility to table a full report, on the basis of as wide a consultation as possible, of civil society. The fact that this report is limited to the points discussed earlier seems to me to conceal any possible progress in other areas. Minister, I'm asking you two questions. First, how will civil society's comments and observations at tomorrow's consultation be incorporated into the national report? Will you, as Switzerland did, publish a summary of civil society consultation at the end of the report? The Commission's role is not limited to approving an internal report in which it has nothing to say. In a so-called democratic country, civil society is usually involved in the choice of topics. Secondly, will the recommendation to ratify the Framework Convention on National Minorities be included in the report in accordance with UN Resolution 1621?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, in January 2016, the Human Rights Council will examine for the second time Belgian human rights policy during the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). This review, which includes a multi-hour interactive dialogue, will take place on the basis of three reports, a national report that Belgium will present and in which it will explain how it fulfils its human rights obligations. The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights will prepare another consolidated report on the basis of contributions received from civil society and international NGOs. A third report will be prepared by OHCHR, based on official United Nations documents. These are mainly recommendations made by the committees monitoring the implementation of United Nations human rights treaties and by the special rapporteurs of the United Nations Human Rights Council. I would like to stress that the Belgian national report is an initiative activity report of the executive, both at the federal level and at the level of the Communities and the Regions. The various competent authorities, including the federated entities, met to draft a first draft. During the months of March and April 2015, they provided inputs on the basis of which a draft report was prepared. The FPS Foreign Affairs plays a coordinating role in the drafting of this report, which will be the subject of a consultation with civil society on Friday, 12 June. On this occasion, it will be possible to discuss the topics desired by the participants. The various entities involved – both the federal and the Regions – will then meet to see how they can adapt the draft report on the basis of the comments expressed. Finally, the final report will be sent to the UN no later than 26 October, a deadline foreseen by the UN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u31	Minister, I did not get a clear answer to both of my questions. I thank you, however, for the answer. As the United Nations points out, taking into account the aspirations of national minority groups means recognizing the equality of all individuals, encouraging their participation in society and helping to reduce social tensions. Since its inception, the United Nations has placed minority rights at the forefront of its human rights concerns through the adoption of instruments, including the right of minorities to enjoy their own culture and to use their own language. How can this right be enforced in Belgium if the issue of national minorities is constantly refused? In your political group, you have two Members who, I believe, will fully agree with me. I hope they will support what we stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u32	Mr President, Minister, almost every day we are shocked by the images we see of IS. What remains under the radar very often is the horrific and flagrant human rights violations in another country of the Middle East, in particular Saudi Arabia. Were we shocked a few months ago by the beheading of the two Japanese journalists by IS, yesterday Saudi Arabia already carried out the 98th decapitation of 2015. That is eleven more today than in 2014. However, in 2009, Saudi Arabia accepted the recommendation to restrict the use of corporal punishment and the death penalty. A strange interpretation of that recommendation, with eleven decapitations more than last year! I want to talk today about Saudi liberal blogger Raif Badawi, who has become the symbol of the atrocities that characterize the regime and plague the country in recent months. Raif Badawi is a liberal blogger who maintained the internet forum Free Saudi Liberals and then criticized the role of religion in Saudi Arab society. He didn't hesitate to take back religious leaders. In order to exercise his right to free speech, Badawi was convicted of attacking Islamic religious values. His sentence is ten years in jail, a fine he'll pay and a thousand lashes. A thousand lashes, 50 of which he's already received. The next fifty lashes are coming. I don't think he'll survive that. This is far worse than the death penalty; it is a slow process, a slow, sneaky, painful death that Raif Badawi looks in the eyes. That's what his wife says. If they actually give him those lashes, they'll kill him a little more every day. This is a criminal act. Indeed, a criminal act by a member of the UN Human Rights Council. Saudi Arabia violates Articles 5 and 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which provide that no one may be the victim of torture and inhumane treatment and that everyone has the right to freedom of expression. Mr. Secretary, I condemn the violation. I hope the whole government does, too. Does the government condemn the violation of universal human rights? Will Belgium work to ensure that Badawi's sentence is withdrawn, that he is released and that he is given the necessary medical care? Will Belgium urge Saudi Arabia and elsewhere in the world to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u33	Mrs Lijnen, our Minister for Foreign Affairs shares your concern about the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia, in particular about penalties such as whips, which have been imposed on Raif Badawi. This is a cruel corporal punishment, which is formally prohibited by the UN Convention against Torture, which was also approved by Saudi Arabia. Belgium notes with relief that the use of the corporal penalty has been suspended since January 2015, but is particularly concerned that the highest court confirmed the conviction last week. After the sentence was pronounced, the European Union immediately repeated its strong opposition to that type of treatment or punishment. It also called on the Saudi authorities to suspend any corporal punishment against Raif Badawi and to put an end to the chastisement practices. Several demarches were made. As for all other countries, respect for human rights is an essential part of our bilateral relations with Saudi Arabia. During the Universal Periodic Review of Saudi Arabia, which took place in October 2013, Belgium addressed recommendations on freedom of expression and association to the Saudi Government. Belgium systematically addresses the issue of human rights in its bilateral contacts with the Saudi authorities. The specific case of Raif Badawi was raised several times by Belgium, both in Riyadh and in Brussels. The Foreign Minister himself stressed his concern about this matter in Geneva in March before the UN Human Rights Council. In a bilateral meeting with Prince Turki, who led the Saudi Arabian delegation at the meeting between the European Union and the Cooperation Council of the Gulf Arab States, at the end of May, the Minister reiterated this. Belgian diplomacy remains vigilant with regard to the human rights issue in Saudi Arabia, and in particular with regard to Raif Badawi.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for giving me the answer that was drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have tried to imagine what it means to get whips, and I have found the following quote in this connection: To describe such chastisement is untapped work. The first blows already hurt a lot, but after the fifth stroke, everything becomes a bloody brittle. After about fifteen blows, one is half unconscious. Colleagues, this is a quote by Raymond Van Pée, it is a testimony of events in the concentration camps. It's not over. People still experience such atrocities in 2015. In time and time, we must dare to put aside our diplomatic considerations and send a strong signal to the world that such horrific and persistent violations of universal human rights cannot be tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is right there. For Raif. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u35	Mr President, Minister, we are in June and this is the time for the Belgians to complete their tax returns. Today, many people go through Tax-on-web, but many citizens still need help to fulfil this obligation, especially as the declaration of contribution is increasingly complicated to fulfil, in particular as a result of the provisions of the Sixth State Reform, which sought a number of transfers of powers to the Regions. So far, taxpayers could benefit from assistance in one of the many Kingdom - wide offices. However, the services have been re-centralized and many offices are closed. This recentralisation of services causes major problems. First of all, the problem of accessibility, especially for the elderly and the isolated, and, above all, a problem of capacity. I read this week in the De Morgen newspaper that the situation in Antwerp was described as scandalous by the press as the queues were long in front of the contribution office. In my region, in Mons, huge lines are formed in front of the contribution office; sometimes citizens have to wait more than four hours to be received. In my view, this situation is unacceptable. So you have to act. Logistical and human reinforcement is really needed. Minister, do you intend to take steps to improve the reception of taxpayers? Are you considering expanding the reception beaches for citizens? Are you considering the possibility of detaching staff into municipalities with technological means for municipalities wishing to organise tax breaks? As a mayor, I asked for your administration, but it wasn't possible due to lack of staff. I would therefore like to know whether you intend to take a series of steps to address this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation outlined by Mr Thiébaut is correct. There is an essential problem today. We do not have to complain in the hemisphere about the complexity of our tax return, because who has made it so complex? That's what we decided here together. If we look at the programme law, we will see that a number of codes will be added next year. However, many citizens have a legitimate fear of filling out the form in the brown envelope. The media have responded to this and said that it is even more complex and difficult this year. The accountants and the various departments of the FPS Finance are overwhelmed with questions for help in completing the tax returns. The FPS Finance Services made 960,000 declarations in 2013, more than 1 million in 2014. Many citizens call on tax inspectors to fill out their letters correctly. The fear of making a mistake is deep in it, because today people are fined much faster in the event of incompleteness. Another problem is that there are many waiting to have the tax auditors fill out the declaration, because there are very few inspectors available, or at least less than in the past. What can you do about it, Minister? Can you extend the deadline? Or can you get extra tax inspectors to help? Or can you reassure the citizens in another way that they are not immediately fined for the slightest error in their declaration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u37	Mr Van Biesen, every year the FPS Finance Office makes every effort to ensure that taxpayers who so wish will be helped to complete their tax returns within the prescribed time limit. For example, about two thousand agents of the Passenger Tax Service are involved in completing the personal tax returns via Tax-on-web and its organisation. In order to ensure maximum accessibility, between 29 April and 30 June 1 241 fill-in sessions are organised outside the tax offices of Finance itself, including in OCMW's and in municipal administrations. That happens at 518 different locations. The most striking example is the now well-known fill-in sessions in fifteen commercial centres. There are 18 days in total. It is, of course, also important that the taxpayer offers himself in time for the filling-in sessions in order to be able to respect the deadline set. For paper declarations, the deadline is 30 June, for tax-on-web declarations until 15 July. Should problems arise on the last day, despite the good intentions of the administration and taxpayers, which would not allow the administration to process all the declarations in good time, the administration will be flexible in these cases as regards the time limit. The exact cost of all the operations to guide taxpayers is quite difficult to estimate. I believe that this is about EUR 4.5 million. As for the situation in Mons, Mr.Thiebaut, the centralisation of services is the result of the 2015 infrastructure plan, which aims to streamline the FPS Finance building fleet, thereby reducing operating costs and improving the working environment of the agents by providing modern premises adapted to current working conditions. Under no circumstances can this rationalization affect the quality of service provided to the taxpayer, which is why permanences are held annually in many municipalities. The Tax-on-web period, however, remains a critical period in terms of receiving taxpayers, particularly in June. Indeed, no building can accommodate such an influx of visitors in such a short time in conditions of optimal security and comfort, for both the public and the agents. That is why my administration is constantly trying to simplify the taxpayer's task so as not to have to move around. As a result, the number of taxpayers to whom a simplified return proposal is sent increases each year. The user-friendliness of the Tax-on-web application is constantly being improved. When the taxpayer has to travel, however, every effort is made to facilitate its reception: front offices, hours of opening extended in June, management of queues by tickets, increased presence of logistical staff to manage the crowd and possible tensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u38	Minister, your answer has not convinced me. You simply set out the numbers and describe the current situation, but you don't see the problems. Every year, 50,000 taxpayers could go to the Mons office; today, 200,000 taxpayers are likely to go! There are lines from 400 to 500 people a day. Throughout the borough, there were thirty positions to accommodate taxpayers, but today there are sixteen. As a result, capacity has been reduced by two. Not all municipalities can organise a tax permanence. I asked the administration and I was told that this request should be made six or seven months in advance. Currently, in my district, two municipalities organize tax offices with tax officials. For my municipality, we need to find volunteers, who know a little bit about it but are not part of your administration, to meet the needs of our citizens. Minister, this is not acceptable, you really need to make other arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u39	Minister, the FPS Finance is indeed making a considerable effort to assist taxpayers. However, the problem is so serious, because errors are also found in the previous declaration and the explanatory notes and the declaration itself are not accurate. It is also important that you meet with your services after the reporting period to see what is wrong with the declaration and with the accompanying programmes. You also want to be flexible if the deadlines are not met. I would also ask you to be flexible and not impose fines. In the past, your administration has been a little ill with the issue of fines, especially with regard to VAT. It is really scandalous how to get a fine of up to EUR 3 000 if the declaration is made only one to two days late. Taxpayers hear such figures and are afraid to fill out the form in the brown envelope. I therefore ask you for some flexibility and more accuracy, so that you do not have to fine the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u40	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question was to the Prime Minister. I asked the Prime Minister my question. I would have liked to react here publicly to what I personally call unacceptable on the part of the Prime Minister who yesterday, in front of the press, said that he wanted to "broadcast the end of recreation in Greece". I would like to respond today to what the Prime Minister said yesterday, namely that the playing time is over in Greece. These words really shocked me! I believe that many people in Belgium have also been, especially when we know what it is going on in terms of "recreation". Last week, I had the opportunity to meet the president of the Greek parliament, Zoé Konstantopoulou. My comrade Zoé explained to me the exact situation in Greece. The "recreation" of which the Prime Minister speaks concerns a country where two suicides a day are found. The playing time referred to by the Prime Minister concerns a country where pensions have fallen by 45%. The Prime Minister speaks of "recreation" but it is a country in which wages have been cut by 40%. The playing time referred to by the Prime Minister concerns a country where 60% of young people are unemployed. That's what the Prime Minister should have talked about! Minister, I would like to know if you are covering this kind of thing. Would it not be time to apologise to the Greek people for such an insult to them, given the suffering they are experiencing today? [[brouhaha]] I understand that the right does not like it, because you want the same thing for Belgium! There is no question of doing this in Belgium. There! We don't like to hear that! That's the truth, N-VA! That's the truth, MR! On the other hand, I note today that the troika comes with proposals that are worthy of a new Treaty of Versailles. This is a Versailles Treaty which is applied to Greece. What does the troika offer? First, to reduce the minimum wages. Secondly, to further reduce pensions in Greece. Thirdly, listen carefully, to ban the return of collective labour agreements in Greece! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask two questions. First of all, Minister, after what the Prime Minister said yesterday, are you politically in agreement with this issue? Secondly, is it not time today to give the Greek people some oxygen, a little oxygen that is economically, socially and ecologically necessary today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u41	Mr President, Minister, "the end of recreation has struck for Greece". These words spoken by the Prime Minister yesterday are outrageous. They're all insults and contempt. They must strike all of us, and especially the members of this Parliament, as a symbol of democracy and the representation of the people. This arrogant statement is unworthy! Did your Prime Minister want to talk about a state, government or people? The answer doesn't matter! This is just as scandalous, whether it is with regard to a state, a government or a people. These words are a symbol of the ravage of austerity policies that have been imposed and are still being imposed on Greece. The Syriza party has come to power. He was praised by the Greek people because the Greeks no longer supported the austerity imposed on them. Indeed, the pseudo-solutions imagined in financial cenacles have destroyed and ravaged a country where the poverty rate has doubled, where the unemployment rate has tripled, where more than one million jobs have been lost with an increase in suicides and depressions, where wages have fallen by almost 40 per cent, where pensions are reduced by 45 per cent, where GDP has fallen by 25 per cent. We could continue reading this list with nameless violence! This austerity has been and still is the result of a policy of burned earth. If austerity is an ideology for some, for Greece, for the Greek people, for the Greek government, for the Greek state, it is just the figures I have just quoted. Minister, I would like to ask you three very simple questions. Are you as shocked as we are at what your head of government has said? Will you present the government's apologies to the Greek people as a whole and to the Greek government? Is it to be inferred from this statement that the Belgian government is in favour of Greece's exit from the euro area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u42	Mr Minister, at the sp.a we were indeed shocked when we heard the Prime Minister on Flemish television on Tuesday saying that the playing time is over. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not here, because I would like to take him to that playground to show the havoc that has been caused there. The wages of the Greeks have fallen by 20%. The minimum wage, which was not much, has been reduced by 22%. The unemployment rate is generally 28% and for young people 55%. The average income has fallen by 25%. As a result, 6.3 million Greeks live below or near the poverty line. That is the social disaster that has been caused on the playground! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you to look at the economic results of five years of blind savings policy. The GNP fell by 25% and the debt increased from about 130 % to 175 % of GDP. Colleagues, the IMF, Krugman, Stiglitz, De Grauwe and last week you also heard Martin Wolf, The Economist's chief editor, say that European policy, addressing the crisis in Greece, is failing. I was probably not entirely aware of it, because when I heard the Prime Minister say that the playing time was over, I thought for a moment that the policy would be changed. Minister, I have spoken to you on a number of occasions in the Finance Committee, and I have heard the Prime Minister after that. It's not enough, the havoc they've caused! It is not understood that the policy is not working. Why remain so ideologically blind, so fundamentalist, to a policy that does not work and that the social disaster in Greece still wants to deepen? They want to double the lowest VAT rates. People want to chop up pensions. It is forbidden to raise the minimum wage and to maintain ordinary social relations between employers and employees in Greece. My question to you, Minister, to the government, and through you to all European governments, is when people start to realize that they are wrong? When are we going to abandon the heartless policy? When will we move to a socially acceptable reform programme to tackle the problems in Greece?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u43	Mr President, it is clear that Greece increases emotions. What are we talking about here? We are talking about a country which joined monetary union more than ten years ago. I have a strong impression that the country was not fully aware of what that decision meant at the time. A number of developments have subsequently taken place in that country which have completely derailed the country. This had to do with the fact that we had an incomplete monetary union, but it certainly had to do with the policy that was being pursued in Greece. Europe and the IMF have shown a great deal of solidarity to the rest of the world. I would remind you that EUR 240 billion has been given in support. If you complain today about a lack of solidarity, I wonder where the limits are. Such aid was conditional upon the finality of restoring the resilience, growth and social fabric of the Greek economy. Those were some very clear agreements. If we are to establish today what is actually the case if the programme has failed, then it is important to find out why that programme has failed. But that is a question, Mr Hedebouw, which you seem to never ask yourself, because you are no further than a little ideology. No, that programme failed because successive Greek governments have not or hardly implemented their part of the deal. They have put emphasis on savings. With regard to labour market, pension and tax reforms, which are medieval, they have done nothing or hardly anything. That is not our responsibility, but the responsibility of the Greek governments. It is that Greek government that has quite rightly called on the Prime Minister. I support him in that. The whole government supports the Prime Minister in his appeal to the Greek Government, not to the Greek people. In the Eurogroup of Finance Ministers and in the Group of Heads of Government, we all want solidarity with Greece, aid to Greece, but for the Greek people, and the relaunch of the Greek economy, so that a serious social policy can be achieved. What you stand for is a blind ideological path, where you throw money without solutions. Everyone has to take responsibility. Europe has done so. The IMF did. We are now asking that the Prime Minister was quite right to ask this very strongly that the Greek Government should do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u44	Minister, this seems to be a very ideological dossier for the majority. Let me start by explaining a few things. So you are openly admitting that what the troika has been asking for for eight years is a failure. That is an important political point. The Minister of Finance says here it's a failure. Minister, you want to make the mistake of the Greek Government, while you are well aware that the Greek Government's margin of manoeuvre over the last eight years has been 0%. It has applied everything that the troika has wanted to do on a point-by-point basis. You admit today that it is a failure. (Protests on multiple banks) Until proven otherwise, a little democracy... I continue my reasoning. Secondly, you are talking about 240 billion. It is not my figures but that of the IMF of 240 billion was pumped into the real economy; 89 percent of that money was just paid directly to the banks and the payments. Very little concrete progress has been made towards the economy, and that is why it is not working. That is why the troika is continuing to make savings today. I'm gonna close here. The debate we are holding today is about which Europe we want. Either we want a Europe of solidarity between regions and balanced economic development, or we want – and I fear it is the desire of the Minister of Finance – a Eurozone of a few countries that have money and which impose by quasi-dictatorial measures the policies that must be applied in the other countries. To keep you back, I will call on all the democrats and all the social-loving people to come on Sunday... [[mic cut]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u45	Minister, your answer is disappointing. You, too, teach your lessons. However, I imagine that the rostrum published in a major British economic newspaper, to which my colleague referred earlier, did not escape you. These economists don't go four ways. They not only recall their opposition to austerity policies, demonstrate how ineffective and cruel they have been, and affirm that another policy is needed, a policy based on recovery, growth and employment. They say that "the way Greece will be treated will be a message to all Eurozone partners and this message must be a message of hope and not despair". In short, it is the opposite of the message of contempt which the Prime Minister, with a form of paternalism and without any modesty, dared to address yesterday to Greece and which you confirm today. Minister, get out of this punitive logic! Respect Greek democracy! Respect reconstruction efforts! Praise for a path that honours the European Union!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u46	Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, I expected it. Indeed, it takes a great deal of courage and intellectual honesty to admit that the policy that has been pursued for five years is not working. The facts are there. I ask you, I know you as a good economist, to look at the facts. Base policy on the facts. Einstein defined stupidity as follows: when one sees that something doesn't work but one keeps doing the same thing and one hopes that one gets other results, that's stupidity. Perhaps it is ideological blindness in this case, perhaps it is a fundamentalist belief in certain schools of the economy, but the policy is not working. Minister, it is a pity that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are not here. As a convinced European, I ask you to be careful with the image you give to the whole of Europe of the heartless Europe that cannot bring solidarity. There's been solidarity. You mentioned the amounts. Solidarity is there with the French and German banks, who are now sure to get their money back, but we ask for solidarity with the Greek people. Pay attention to the heartless image of Europe that you are hanging up. We see extremist movements everywhere, on the left and right, rejecting Europe. You're playing with fire!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 May last, a judgment was delivered by the Court of Cassation in the context of irregular evidence obtained in tax matters. That case law is not surprising and fits seamlessly with the Anti-Constitutional Judgment of the Court of Cassation of 2003. In both cases, it's about gathering evidence. The Antigooncase concerns the collection of evidence in criminal matters, in the judgment of 22 May it concerns the collection of evidence in tax matters, in particular in the context of VAT. This case law is fully in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. That is a good thing, because citizens no longer take it that a minor procedural error can sometimes have such drastic consequences. An acquittal in criminal matters or not being able to use evidence in tax matters: the sanction is often disproportionate. Let us be clear: tax fraud must not go unpunished because of a minor procedural error. No one's gonna take that anymore, not the civilian and not the N-VA. On the other hand, of course, there is also the tax authorities. Is this a free pass for the IRS now? Is he allowed to do anything now? If I hear some fiscalists, except torture, anything would be possible, but I don't think so. The way I interpret it, the tax administration and the court will have to balance interests in this matter. On the one hand, there is, of course, the interest of the State, and that is all of us, with the collection of taxes, on the other hand, there is the interest of the taxpayer who wants the correct application of the tax rules. If I understood correctly, the evidence would be invalid if the government did not comply with the rules of good administration or if the rights of the taxpayer were not respected. The taxpayer must nevertheless be entitled to a fair trial and his right to privacy must not be violated. Mr President, my specific questions are as follows. Do you share that interpretation? The Antigooncase has been converted into laws and laws. Will you also take a legislative initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u48	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the context has already been outlined. The right of course has the advantage that the right to speak has grown slightly crooked. One of the things that the taxpayer sometimes perceives as very crooked is the conduct of a search for a house for which there is insufficient justification or ground. On the other hand, we must not, of course, fall into excessive formalism. It is also important that the tax authorities can act decisively, that the people are not shocked and that the people and the people are not shocked at their sense of fairness in tax matters. Remarkable in the reading of that judgment is that it is written that tax legislation does not contain any provision prohibiting the use of illegally obtained evidence for determining or increasing a tax debt. Mr. Secretary, is any unlawful evidence allowed? What do we do with fundamental rights and freedoms, if any? Mrs Wouters has already mentioned privacy in this context. In that sense, we could argue that an amendment of the law is imposing itself. However, the Court of Cassation also makes a number of concrete proposals by stating that such evidence can be provided, if the rules of good administration are applied or if there is sufficient balance in the proceedings, so that a fair trial is not compromised. It is very important that the tax authorities have sufficient weapons and that there should be clarity for both parties, for the tax authorities and for the taxpayer or company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u49	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, Mrs Wouters, ladies and gentlemen, the rights of the State and the public interest must always be weighed with great care and caution against the rights of the individual. It is therefore wise to look at the concrete facts and the concrete balance of interests. After all, every case in which a court or a court, even the Court of Cassation, judges, is different. Today's judgment of the Court of Cassation concerns a serious case of VAT evasion by the use of false documents, in particular false invoices with an unjustified exemption from VAT. In fact, they have already been convicted twice. In this case, the BBI sought information from its sister administration in Portugal in the tax investigation. The question arises as to whether or not such information was lawfully obtained, in particular whether or not the BBI was the competent authority to ask the Portuguese VAT administration this question. According to a European directive of 1977, the competent authority is the Minister for Finance, or a representative appointed by him. According to a ministerial decision of 1997, the Central Liaison Office (CLO) is the competent authority. In a 1999 VAT instruction, on the other hand, the central administration of the FBI is mentioned as the competent authority. In these legal standards, a ministerial decision has more value than a VAT instruction and should therefore be the CLO. One point is quite clear here. There's noise on the legislation, there's a discrepancy in the legislation. I will therefore make every effort to bring the various provisions into line in the coming period. What does the Court of Appeal now say? As you have said, Mr Deseyn, the Court of Cassation states that the tax legislation does not contain a general provision prohibiting the use of illegally obtained evidence, but also that the use of such evidence should not prevent a fair trial and proper administration, and that officials should certainly not intentionally infringe the law. The court also states that a number of circumstances must be taken into account, such as the fact that the seriousness of the VAT infringement exceeds the procedural error. However, the judgment in question in cassation, read in its proper context, is absolutely not a free pass for the tax authorities, quite the contrary. The balance between the general and individual interest should always be made in a conscientious manner on the basis of the facts of the present case. By the way, in another recent case concerning illegally obtained evidence, the Court of Cassation ruled at first sight diametrically opposed to the judgment in the present case. The Court of Cassation annulled a judgment of the Court of Appeal in Ghent in 2014, in which the administration requested a copy of the shareholder's current account by means of a standard question. On this point, Cassatie held that the information requested had been obtained unlawfully. In my view, the scope of the judgment in cassation is more extensive than the judgment under discussion. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. Firstly, the laws must be aligned. That is quite clear after the current discussion. I repeat that I will take the necessary initiatives to this end. Secondly, there are other relevant judgments of the Court in this matter, which show that such considerations always have to be made on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very pleased that you will take a legislative initiative on this. A proper balance of interests between the government, on the one hand, and the taxpayer, on the other, is necessary in a modern and social democracy. However, tax fraud should not go unpunished because of minor procedural errors. On the other hand, the taxpayer's rights must be respected; that is also necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. You say that the officials must deal with it conscientiously. Of course the conscience of one does not function like that of the other. That is why I think we all support the call for clarity. In ordinary criminal cases there is a mechanism, a kind of carwash, which makes damaged evidence beautiful again, just as in real life a beautiful car pays to shine it up. If evidence is very important for fair litigation, to come to good trials from the sense of justice, then such a carwash should also be set up in fiscal law. There are conflicting judgments; you mentioned them. It is clear that a legislative initiative is needed and I am very pleased that you will accept responsibility in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to the speakers? There is a lot of noise in the Chamber today!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I have a little bit of humor and I can tell you that when I discovered La Libre Belgique's front page this morning, I laughed a lot! I laughed because it was announced that when you are no longer a Minister of Defence, the budget will be tripled. In 2030, €6 billion will be spent annually on defence. I thought it was totally awesome! It could also have been announced that by 2030 the Belgian public debt will have been completely repaid or that there will be no more unemployment or that the chickens will have teeth! Such an announcement would have a little more credibility if it were not known that this government had cut the defence budget by EUR 1.5 billion over the time of the legislature. This announcement would have a little more credibility if it did not take place the day after the announcement of our withdrawal from Jordan for budgetary reasons and our withdrawal from Operation Triton of Rescue in the Mediterranean Sea for budgetary reasons. Minister, either you've had a dream about Martin Luther King – I have a dream – and then maybe it doesn't deserve so much publicity, or you're really willing. In the latter case, it is then time to stop the army's budgetary shortage, it is time to ensure that it is not grounded as it is today, it is time to take the first steps so that Belgium can contribute to security operations and international relief operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, I didn't laugh when I read the newspaper this morning! I almost choked myself by swallowing through my tartin garnished with jam! There is therefore a strategic plan and a budget to finance it by 2030. This is not an increase, it is not a doubling; it is a tripling of the budget! Nothing less! We're going from $2.1 billion to $6.3 billion! Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what ivory tower do you live in? At SNCB, trains are crowded and do not arrive on time. In the area of justice, it takes six to seven years to obtain a trial, while the sector is becoming less and less funded. You track the unemployed for budgetary reasons, and you stress the future pensioners. The only long-term plan this majority has developed, and it is funded, is to buy cannons and fighter-bombers. This is obviously not our project. I'd like to ask you two questions, minister. Do you confirm that you are going to invest in the long term to triple the budget? In fact, in this press article, 10 to 12 billion investment is involved. Are they integrated into this future forecast budget by 2030? What is the role of fighter-bombers in this budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u55	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne and Mr Hellings, I understand that you are referring to the article published this morning in La Libre Belgique. You have to be aware of the difference between what the journalist wrote and what I said. As Mr Dallemagne said, the defence budget is an expression of Belgium's solidarity with regard to security in Europe. If you want to be a member of the European club, you have to pay a fee. Based on our GDP, we see that our country is one of the richest in Europe, but also one of the least invested in defence. It is true that I have made a proposal to increase the budget in the future. It's normal for the defense. I myself will pay at the end of the legislature for aircraft ordered by Mr Flahaut ten years ago. It's the very nature of the Defense. That is why we must now take decisions for future security. With regard to the replacement of the F-16s, I will repeat what I have probably explained a thousand times in committee: no decision has been taken. The government will only take it once a full file has been submitted to it. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that what has been published in La Libre Belgique concerns a proposal that I have made, but that the strategic plan will not be made public until the government has agreed on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u56	Minister, I understand that these were not inventions or elucubrations of journalists. We know your communication strategy. You have a serious, very serious budgetary problem. You said it several times, "We're going straight into the wall." From the beginning of this legislature, these are your words, and I have not forgotten them! So you're trying to make sure you have more budget appropriations. But you would be more credible, minister – I understand that investments are long-term – if this government had not made our budgetary spending less than 0.5% of our GDP. We are NATO's red lantern in this area. Therefore, to propose to your future successor, not the first but the second or the third, to incur the expenses that you should have incurred in your capacity as Minister of Defence, is not very serious! The war is now being waged intermittently in Iraq and Syria. We fought a little in May, June, and then in July, August, September, October, November, December, we wouldn't do it! No, they won't be others! Our six F-16s will not be replaced; you agreed yesterday in the Defence Committee. There'll be no more planes, there'll be less. There will be less effort. For the people of Palmyra, Aleppo (we forget the siege of Aleppo in Syria), in all these places, the way we design our investments for 2030 does not seem very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u57	Mr Minister, I will not agree with you, nor with Mr Dallemagne, that will hardly surprise you. There is a sufficient budget from the point of view of the financing of the armed forces at European level. There are no shortage of European fighter jets. What matters to you, in your strategic note, is to offer military means where other European countries have not invested. And we have niches! And clearly, hunting planes, we do not lack them in Europe! Then you made the observation at the beginning of your strategic note that there was a flaw in Libya: we had not invested at the political and diplomatic levels to ensure that the state was rebuilt after the bombings. In a few months, you will probably make the same observation in Iraq. It will now be possible to invest at the political level what your government has not done. The conflict prevention budget of $20 million in 2012 will rise to $5 million in 2019. The only solution is political and diplomatic. The fighter planes have demonstrated this in the past, they will not bring peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u58	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Friart, Kattrin Jadin, Emmanuel Burton, Frank Wilrycx, Tim Vandenput, Bert Wollants, Len Dierick, Griet Smaers
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u60	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my support for the substance of the royal decrees confirmed by this bill. I regret, as we regretted in committee, that an amendment tabled, allowing confirmation of the entire Royal Decree of 4 April 2014, was rejected by the majority. Madam Minister, you mentioned the reason in committee. It concerned articles 10 and 11. It should be noted that at the time they entered into force retroactively, so that, if these provisions were confirmed, the confirmation of the other provisions of that Royal Decree could be jeopardised. It is not so much the retroactive entry into force at the time of the publication of this royal decree that is problematic, but the fact that these provisions should have been confirmed before 1 January 2015. As a reminder, I quote the principle of legislative technique of the Council of State: "In matters which the Constitution has reserved to the legislator, the latter may grant authorization to the King only under strict conditions, in particular under the condition that the decrees issued under this authorization must be confirmed within a relatively short period of time and that, in the absence of confirmation in time, these decrees are deemed never to have produced any effect." On the other hand, in view of this legislation, we are well aware that publication in the Belgian Monitor will take place after the date of entry into force of this law and that the majority has still had to act in an emergency and has therefore not tabled a draft law and actually sought the opinion of the Council of State. This is still a legally ambiguous project! In conclusion, Minister Friart, who is the author of this proposal, it would have been more appropriate for the majority to seek the advice of the Council of State on this issue. It will therefore have to assume responsibility in the event of a problem related to the non-confirmation of certain provisions. That is why we will abstain in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because all the elements are contained in the report. However, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question as to whether your position has changed since the work that took place in committee. I want to check that the methodological problem that has arisen here will not happen again in the future. So, can you assure me that when other laws confirm royal orders, you will no longer table a bill, but you will abide by deadlines and institutions, including the Council of State, and you will table a bill? Can you make commitments in this regard today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u63	Mr President, it is true that we have no problem on the substance of the project, namely on the subsidies granted to offshore wind energy and on the financing of energy mediation services. But, as usual, the problem is at the level of the working method. In fact, the work is still being carried out in an emergency. A bill rather than a bill has been introduced. The opinion of the Council of State was not requested. We are faced with uncertainties about articles that have not been confirmed in the context of the said bill, which will once again help to create legal uncertainty with regard to subsidies. This is the second time that we have faced this kind of practice when it is only a question of confirmation of royal decrees. That is why, even if we have nothing to say on the substance, we will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u64	Mr President, I have a little clarification about these articles. They have no fiscal scope, do not fall within the scope defined by the Council of State and should therefore not be taken over. This was made clear during the debates in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u65	Mr President, I am responding to Mr Friart's remarks. I want to be sure that he will not have to correct his point later. I propose to give her a second chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u66	Mr President, it was up to my predecessors to have this royal decree confirmed in its entirety by a law in the previous legislature, which they did not do. Therefore, the articles which concern, in this royal decree, surcharges and tax measures must be confirmed by law, in accordance with the advice of the Council of State which had been handed over at that time, what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u67	Mr President, at the risk of insisting, I want to be sure that Mr Friart does not correct his remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u68	I understand that the minister responded to your intervention. So I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u69	I confirm what I said and what the minister said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u70	That's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u71	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the Minister. I have not been able to attend the discussion in committee, but I have read the report. What surprised me greatly is the Minister's statement that she will be working with legislative proposals by the majority in the future. In this way it does not have to ask the Council of State for its opinion and can work faster. Mr Nollet has already referred to this, but the Minister has not replied. Certainly Mrs Marghem should not allow such things to be misunderstood. In recent weeks, it has been messing with Parliament, ignoring the Council of State and withholding opinions. If it intends to work more with legislative proposals, Parliament has the right to know. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to rectify that ruling and to admit that it was an impulsive, temperamental statement in committee. Then I'll take note of that and we'll turn the page. In any case, I would like to know her answer in the context of the current discussion, as there have been statements on this matter in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u72	Mr President, I would like to respond to the minister's response that it is the fault of the previous government. We know that this is a usual response from this government. This order was made in April, while the government was in day-to-day business. It was therefore up to the new government, set up in October, to confirm. We knew it since October! I wanted to make that point because I would not like to see any misconceptions in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u73	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Mr Calvo, I cannot force anyone to speak. If I ask if anyone else wants to speak and no one wants to speak, I will of course take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u74	Mr President, you cannot, of course, force eminent or less eminent ministers to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u75	I can't even force the non-minor ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u76	I agree. I draw your attention, Mrs Marghem, while you are talking to your group colleague, to the fact that you are holding on to your statement in committee. That is not an innocent explanation, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister said that in future she wants to work more with legislative proposals from the majority, in order to be able to go faster and not have to pass through the Council of State. After the last few weeks, I think that is an important fact. Mr Wollants and ladies and gentlemen of the majority, how long will you continue to tolerate that way of working by Minister Marghem? The Minister says in the committee that she wants to take even more advantage of you. You'll be able to sign a lot of papers. It wants to work through Parliament so that it does not have to go to the Council of State. You accept that, as you also accept today, the Minister for the Federal Appeals Committee on access to environmental information is taking a step in the right direction. That's a new incident today. You think that's okay. It must stop now, Mr President. Minister Marghem is no longer allowed to play with legislation and with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1114/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1114/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u80	In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the 12 members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two thirds of the members being present for a period of five years, which may be renewed once and starting on the date of the appointment. In accordance with article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the twelve members of the Commission are appointed by the House of Representatives – by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two-thirds of the members to be present – for a period of five years, renewable once, taking place on the day of installation. The Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each with one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former mandaters. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, one magistrate (or professor), three former members of the House and/or the Senate and two former representatives. At least two thirds of the members are of the same sex. Following the six calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, the following applications were submitted: Following the six calls for candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the following applications were submitted: Magistrate (or Professor) - Mr Werner Coudyzer (N) - Mr Wouter Pas (N) Mr Philippe Quertainmont (F) - Mr André Simons (N) - Mrs Françoise Tulkens (F) Magistrate (or professor) - M. Werner Coudyzer (N) - Mr Wouter Pas (N) - Mr. Philippe Quertainmont (F) - Mr. André Simons (N) - Ms. Françoise Tulkens (F) Former members of the Chamber and/or Senate Mrs Juliette Boulet (F) - Mr François-Xavier de Donnea (F) - Mr Johan De Roo (N) - Mr Thierry Detienne (F) - mevrouw Camille God (F) - Mr Frederik Erdman (N) - Mrs Jacqueline Herzet (F) - Mr Geert Lambert (N) - Mr Danny Pieters (N) - Mr Melchior Wathelet (F) - Ms Magdeleine Willame-Boonen (F) - Mr Luc Willems (N) Former members of the House and/or Senate - Ms Juliette Boulet (F) - Mr. François-Xavier de Donnea (F) - M. Johan De Roo (N) - Mr. Thierry Detienne (F) - Mrs. Camillie God (F) - Mr Frederik Erdman (N) - Ms. Jacqueline Herzet (F) - Mr Geert Lambert (N) - M. Danny Pieters (N) - Mr Melchior Wathelet (F) - Mme Magdeleine Willame-Boonen (F) - Mr Luc Willems (N) By letter dated 21 April 2015, Ms Juliette Boulet withdrew her candidacy. By letter dated April 21, 2015, Juliette Boulet withdrew her application. Former Mandates - Mrs Djamila Benbihi (F) - Mr Eddy Boutmans (N) - Mr Jan Michiels (N) - Mr Jean-Marie Raviart (F) - Mr Sabin S'Heeren (N) Former agents - Ms. Djamila Benbihi (F) - M. Eddy Boutmans (N) - M. Jan Michiels (N) - Mr. Jean-Marie Raviart (F) - Mr Sabin S'Heeren (N) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I propose that Mr Werner Coudyzer's candidacy be declared inadmissible. The candidates' CVs will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I propose that you declare Mr Werner Coudyzer's candidacy inadmissible. The curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u81	The Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the euthanasia law consists of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors in medicine, at least four of whom are professors at a Belgian university; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. The Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Enforcement of the Euthanasia Act is composed of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are professors at a Belgian university; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. The Commission shall be composed in accordance with the linguistic parity, each language group having at least three candidates of each sex. The Commission shall be composed in accordance with linguistic parity, with each linguistic group comprising at least three candidates of each sex. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 12 March 2015, a call for candidates for the mandates of member of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 March 2015. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 12 March 2015, a call for candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia was published in the Belgian Monitor of 16 March 2015. The applications were to be submitted by 15 April 2015. Applications were to be submitted no later than 15 April 2015. Twenty-four applications were submitted within the prescribed deadline, but insufficient applications were submitted for the categories "healers" and "professors in law or attorneys." Twenty-four applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit but too few applications were submitted for the categories "doctors in medicine" and "professors of law or lawyers". Mrs Corinne Vaysse (F) applied late. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I propose that you declare this application inadmissible. Ms. Corinne Vaysse (F) applied outside the deadline. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I propose that you declare this candidature inadmissible. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, a second call for candidates for the categories "healers" and "professors in law or attorneys" will be published in the Belgian Official Journal and in a specialised journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, a second call for candidates for the categories "doctor in medicine" and "professors of law or lawyers" will be published in the Belgian Monitor and in a specialized journal. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u82	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending Article 348-11 of the Civil Code concerning the refusal by the mother or father to agree to the adoption, No. 1152/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u83	- the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir) on the practical tests, No. 1153/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) amending Articles 36 and 63 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations in order to support the efforts of young people and right holders on integration benefits, No. 1157/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u84	- the bill (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification with regard to the review of international treaties and agreements on policy coherence for development, No. 1149/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne cs) on the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia and in particular on the situation of blogger Raif Badawi, No. 1154/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u85	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 June 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposed law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Mr. Stefaan Van Hecke) amending Article 348-11 of the Civil Code, as regards the refusal of consent of the mother or father to adoption, No. 1152/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u86	- the proposal for a law (Ms Meryame Kitir) on situation tests, No. 1153/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms Catherine Fonck) amending Articles 36 and 63 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment in order to support the efforts of young people and beneficiaries of integration allowances, No 1157/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u87	- the bill (MM. Wouter De Vriendt and Benoit Hellings, Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens and MM. Georges Gilkinet and Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification with regard to the evaluation of international treaties and agreements with regard to policy coherence for development, No. 1149/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne et al.) concerning the situation of human rights in Saudi Arabia and in particular the case of blogger Raif Badawi, No. 1154/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u88	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose the legislative proposal (Mr Johan Klaps cs) amending the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services as regards the limitation of opening hours in seaside resorts and tourist centres, No. 1155/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u89	I also propose that you take into account the proposal for a law (Mr Johan Klaps et al.) amending the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services as regards the limitation of opening hours in seaside resorts and tourist centres, No 1155/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u90	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u91	Mr President, in response to the very strong and moving remarks made by Mr Nele Lijnen, who drew attention to this serious situation, I would like to ask for the urgency of our motion for a resolution (No 1154/1). We welcomed Mr Badawi's wife in the Committee on External Relations, who told us how important it was to intervene. We agreed that we would table a motion for a resolution and try to have a vote on it before the beginning of Ramadan month; indeed, at that time, the possibility that the King of Saudi Arabia might make a move on this particularly worrying case might exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u92	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u93	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 1127/1. The government requested urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Act of 12 April 1965 relating to the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, No. 1127/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u94	Mr President, this bill aims to enable Fluxys Belgium to set up a joint company with other European gas transmission system operators, in compliance with Directive 2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas with a view to managing commercial balance in a given area. The Council of Ministers shall request the urgency of this project in order to permit its review, adoption and publication before the beginning of the gas year beginning on 1 October 2015. As a European first, it is necessary to support this urgent request in order to allow this project to be launched in practice. This can only be done if the bill was passed and published before October 1st of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u95	Our group will not support this request for urgency, and this with great conviction. We are getting tired of this government taking advantage of the procedure in place to apply urgency in Parliament. Other fellow Members have already mentioned this, including Mrs Onkelinx last week. Mrs Marghem does that at the Council of State. The Council only gets five days so that it can't do its job, and Parliament has to decide on these matters quickly. That happens with one design after another. The design on Objective has been presented as urgent. The Council of State was not allowed to do its job. It was tabled in March and it has still not been voted on today by the debacle of the Minister's action. I don't think that's a serious way of working. I wish to explain this formally here. This has to stop. This is not good for the operation of this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Calvo. We are voting on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1114/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1114/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-11-54-plenair-ip051x.u98	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 15 June 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings of the week of 15 June 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 17 June 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Wednesday, 17 June 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
