ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u1	Last time we had a small room for a lot of people and now we have a very large room for a little less people. Good morning to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question was originally put by Mrs Temmerman from Ghent, but because of the frequently changed timing I will now place it in her place. In view of the continuing influx of asylum seekers there is a need for additional reception places. The government has addressed several partners, including private partners. It is in a hurry, but it threatens to damage quality. In Ghent, the Corsendonck Hotels & G4S Care consortium aims to create a reception initiative on a pontoon in the port of Ghent. That pontoon should accommodate 250 refugees. Good preparatory discussions were held between the city of Ghent and the consortium. There are other examples, in which the city of Ghent was not heard from Fedasil after the submission of a file. At the beginning of November there was Willy Naessens' proposal to provide a warehouse with a reception capacity for 100 people in the port of Ghent. The city council heard that news through the press and only afterwards confirmed Fedasil that a file had been filed. During the same period, a second large-scale collection file was submitted to Fedasil for the reception of 350 people in a hotel in the centre of Ghent. The city administration was not involved in either case. There is concern about commercial outsourcing of large-scale reception initiatives. The local government has too little impact on the initiatives being taken in the city. Commercial players can contact Fedasil directly. There is no obligation to consult with local authorities. However, Ghent has an urban reception initiative with the necessary expertise. It is logical that local authorities should strongly regret such an approach, ignoring the city's efforts and putting them before the facts. Mr Secretary of State, why is there no coordinated consultation with local authorities following the submission of large-scale reception proposals by commercial players? Did Fedasil get carte blanche in the search for additional shelters? A few months ago, well-functioning Red Cross centres were closed down. Are you convinced that private players better meet the quality requirements of care? Can you explain to me why private initiatives would spend more money than the Red Cross' previously closed reception initiatives, without compromising the quality of care and support?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u3	My head of the cabinet called the mayor of Ghent yesterday. The pontoon has been approved. So that shelter will be there. You're asking for consultation. Mrs. De Coninck, this is a learning process. We are now a step further. It is now included in the tender that the private company should contact local government. Everything's happening optimally? No, but again, it's a learning process. Remediation often comes from our cabinet. Fedasil has carte blanche for the search of shelters, but not for their approval. The service does a lot of field work. He visits a lot of sites and then presents a list. We'll see if it's possible, but I've never stopped an initiative. If Fedasil says he can operationalize a reception initiative, that's fine with me. I am not saying that private initiatives would be better spent. I never said that. In addition, you spoke of initiatives which have been closed. I do not know what you mean by that, because all asylum shelters are open. So I'm not saying that private partners would spend it better. We're trying to work in all areas. We've talked about that a few times. I think we should. That runs well in some places and less well in others. There is a lot of expertise in the traditional network and the private partners sometimes need to keep up. It's always and and and, never or or.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u4	Mr. Secretary of State, you just said you learned something from Bourgeois. I learned something from Patrick Janssens. He was talking about progressive insights when one is in a process. Thank you for your answer. I think it is important that private partners also contact traditional reception initiatives, including to exchange experiences. They are probably also asking for this. I think it is wonderful that the tenders now state that private initiatives should also consult local authorities. If something goes wrong, they are often the first to experience the weather crashes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on Monday 23 November we read in the newspaper that some European countries only allow asylum seekers from certain countries. Asylum seekers from other countries are denied access and returned. Specifically, it concerns Macedonia, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, which only allow asylum seekers from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. It led to tragic images of asylum seekers who sewed their mouths shut. Meanwhile, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the eurogroup, talks about a mini-Schengen zone. Together with Belgium and some other countries, he wants to establish a mini-Schengen zone, a hard core in the European Union, in which the borders between them remain open but which once again guards the borders with the other EU countries. I also read that Belgium has only cleared 30 places for the relocation of asylum seekers from the European distribution plan. I have the following questions. What is the Belgian Government's position on the closure of borders by the Balkan countries? What is the Belgian Government's position on the idea of Jeroen Dijsselbloem? I tabled this question a long time ago, and in the meantime I have noticed that the debate on this issue is being extended in the media. Why have only 30 more seats been cleared? Other countries already have 300 places. What profiles do these asylum seekers have? When are they coming to Belgium? What is the timetable for the other places and the actual reception?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u6	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, our country has not so far taken a formal position. I can tell you that, in the current situation, it is still possible to apply for asylum in Greece. The Balkan countries seem to be taking measures to prevent transit through Greece without applying for asylum. The Dutch President of the Eurogroup has indeed communicated the idea of a mini-Schengen zone, but the idea has never been on an official agenda of the European Council of Ministers until now. We offer 30 seats for a first test. The hotspots in Italy and Greece still have many defects. For us it is very clear, we only want a relocation if it is directly linked to the proper functioning of the hotspots. The exact profile of asylum seekers depends on the persons proposed. They will be profiles in line with the relocation decision on asylum seekers from countries with an average recognition level in the EU above 75%. De facto then we are talking about Syria, Iraq, Eritrea, perhaps also Somalia and Afghanistan, although I have doubts about Afghanistan. It is currently unclear when these people will come to Belgium. The procedures for this are pending. After the first 30 places we will make an evaluation. Only if the hotspots work correctly will additional numbers be promised. At European meetings, Mrs De Coninck, I have always said that I will not fly in until there are fewer applications in Brussels. As long as there are so many applications in Brussels, this means that the hotspots don't work. That's a very simple conclusion. So I want to offer 30 places as a symbol, but also no more than that. Sweden was, by the way, the first country to do this. With a lot of patati and patata that was announced a month and a half ago, but two weeks later Sweden closed its borders and half a week later it announced no one will receive. It is therefore very nice that we in Sweden are proudly knocking on our chests and saying that we are doing everything we can, but the reality is completely different at the moment. Relocation to Sweden is currently not really negotiable for the Swedes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, for the sake of fairness, Sweden has, of course, already received many people. I note that there is a certain dynamism in the European Union. We are beginning to talk about a European border policy. Frontex is also being ordered to monitor the Schengen area more closely and more precisely and to work on hotspots or safe ports. We shall see what the outcome of the further discussion will be. I understand your position that you do not want to offer more than 30 places, as long as the hotspots do not function. However, when everyone starts like this, nothing happens. We must also make efforts to ensure that European policy, which we are part of, becomes a reality as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will make a confession to you. I have a great interest in architecture and custom homes. Throughout my career, for example at the OCMW of Antwerp, I have been very busy with service flats and the way they should be organized and built. What architecture is needed so that people can live well and happy? In the media I've heard that Ikea Better Shelter is offering packages for shelter for people on the run. Ikea Foundations, the charitative institution of lkea, wants to improve the living conditions of refugees from Syria and other countries at war. In the United States and Canada there are firms specializing in the development of "I'm going to say it a little disrespectful" the better garden houses, in which one can live, which have the infrastructure of a studio. Ikea manufactures building packages that offer a safer and more sustainable accommodation for refugees. During the design phase, transport, volume, weight, price, safety and comfort were taken into account. You know that the company specializes in this, it also makes furniture packages that one has to put together afterwards, so it knows something about it. They are shelters with a steel frame, 17 m2 large, wind and waterproof, equipped with windows, mosquito nets, fans and a door that can be locked. The latter may seem banal, but it is very important for refugees to protect the very few they have. Power can be generated via solar panels, for lighting and mobile phones. The constructions are six times more sturdy than the traditional tents and can also easily be built up or demolished with four people, to change location. The constructions are already being prepared by Syrian refugees in Sweden, Germany and Switzerland. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of this project? It will not be the blissful solution, but would you like to find out if this can also be used for temporary shelters and homes for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u9	I'd like to mention that Ikea makes social housing himself under the name BoKlok. They are offered in Sweden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u10	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I am aware of the project. We're investigating that. I always have to say two words because what does not seem to be an option today may be tomorrow. Well, that has turned out to be the case in the last few months. If I have to read the answer here, it says we're not gonna do it. I won't say we're not gonna do it, because maybe we're gonna do it in a few months. However, it is not immediately a sustainable concept, especially as regards energy. In our country it would not be a good idea, it says in the prepared answer. According to Belgian standards, the beds, shelters and units are neither outdoor nor indoor. Again, I say that on parole. I'm not going to make any statements about that because maybe we'll need those building packages in six months. In fact, there is also a KU Leuven working group that has worked out this kind of thing. I'll get it soon. It's some kind of tent, the Maggie.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u11	I would just like to point out that in the Netherlands we are also recently in the process of decorating containers. In a classic container one places doors, windows and insulation. One can actually create quite flexible multiple homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u12	We're already working with containers. In fact, due to the European asylum crisis, there is a waiting list of four to six months for containers. Germany has ordered 300 000 containers and so all these factories are running at full speed to make those containers. If one has a particular site where one wants to place containers, it was open in September within three weeks. Now it takes a little longer because they just don't get those containers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u13	We think very much about these construction containers in containers. There are also those today that are ecologically decorated and well insulated. Indeed, you are wise not to reply in advance, because I suspect that in the second phase, after the recognition of asylum seekers and if they are therefore recognised refugees, we will be faced with a major housing shortage and we will therefore have to be very creative in the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u14	Mr President, Secretary of State, following the massive arrival of migrants, your services are confronted with a large number of asylum applications in our territory. All of these files do not result in acceptance. In the case of refusal, voluntary return or serious fraud, the Foreign Office shall issue an order to leave the territory. A concrete example: on 1 December 2015, 13 migrants were found in the tank of a truck in Hainaut. Once intercepted by the police and after notice to the Office of Foreigners, this service served them an order to leave the territory. A few hours later, they were again arrested by the police for disturbances of public order and taken to the station to Fedasil. Given that it was more than 20 hours, that Fedasil did not permanence at night, what did they actually become? How is it possible that they will be referred to Fedasil when the police have given them an order to leave the territory? These migrants came from the Middle East, a region that is not without the risk of jihadists passing through; examples have been mentioned in recent attacks. Aren't we too reckless? Is it common practice to tell them an OQT and then leave them in the wild? Practically, how do you make sure these people leave the territory well and do not become illegal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u15	Mr Carcaci, on 1 December 2015, the police transmitted to the Office of Foreigners an administrative control report for these persons. They were notified of an order to leave the territory. The Agency does not know what subsequently happened to the interested parties. Fedasil has no knowledge of these facts. Unaccompanied foreign minors may, of course, be referred by the police to observation and referral centres as a matter of urgency. In this case, a reception is organised. That was not the case on the evening of December 1st. As for adults, reception in a reception facility in Fedasil or one of its partners is only possible after the registration of an asylum application and the designation of a reception centre by the Fedasil dispatch service. In addition to the various actions in the context of forced return, such as various Gaudi operations, I also emphasize voluntary return. At the Fedasil level, which is competent in this area, voluntary return programmes exist and allow thousands of people to return to their countries of origin every year. There has been a significant increase in voluntary returns, with 600 voluntary returns organized in October alone. Statistics for November are not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u16	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. However, my concern is that an order to leave the territory (OQT) is issued, but then the person concerned does not leave. The head of a host organisation said a few weeks ago that there were almost 150,000 people in our country in nature, of whom we don't know where they came from and who are walking in our country, with all the risks and all the drifts that this can lead to: work in the dark, recovery in delinquency, etc. Here too, there is a real danger. Is giving an OQT enough when you leave them, like that, in nature? I don't think so. If an order is issued to leave the territory, they may have to be taken to the border or elsewhere, but they must no longer be there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u17	It's not that easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u18	Mrs De Coninck, I have just been informed that Mr Kir has asked to postpone his questions. It is therefore primarily a question of question No. 7690. Question No 5, by Mr De Pasquale 7940, which was merged with your question No. 7725, postponed. Do you want to postpone your question or do you want to ask them now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u19	Mr President, this question is mainly about the distribution plan and, in particular, the criteria and guidance of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u21	I heard on the radio this morning that it would be announced today how many places each municipality should provide. I would really like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u22	In your place, I would ask the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u23	You can see how flexible I am, even from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I have a number of questions about the distribution plan for the reception of asylum seekers. What parameters are used? You have already mentioned these, but have they been re-directed? How many asylum seekers are required to receive each municipality? To what extent do families and unaccompanied minors count? Was that taken into account? Is a child as heavy as a single person? Does a couple count for two or just for a file? When is a sanction provided for? How will you respond if a local government fails to respond to this question of reception or fails to fulfil its obligations? What sanction will be imposed? My experience from the past teaches me that sometimes a government chooses to pay a financial penalty if it does not have to accommodate anyone. Which criteria should be met by the reception centres? Is it all about reception or is it just about reception of recognised refugees? Are the cities being accompanied in creating a mandatory number of shelters? The government charges initially at 5 000 places and 15 000 in second instance. What's the timeline? I would like to repeat that last weekend I conducted a study on whether or not they were already informed with the local authorities. I've discovered that this is poignant. Some local authorities don't know anything, while others have received emails. I have seen this e-mail saying that there is no need to worry because it will take six months before this becomes a reality. I don't think you can blame me for this, but I think that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u26	I dare to tell the public what you do well, but I also think you should act correctly, otherwise you will lose your support. I also believe that mayors and municipal authorities of another political colour are trying to take on their responsibilities. I very much advise you to deal with that as correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u27	Mrs. De Coninck, I think this is a real punishment. There has been no official communication on behalf of the government to mayors of any kind. I can't help the fact that a certain government party sent that list around. I really don't think that's right. Nothing's been sent, not even by my party. What you're saying isn't correct. Yesterday, a letter arrived today, with an indicative figure per municipality. This applies to all municipal authorities, whatever the political colour of mayor or OCMW chairman. Before that, nothing was sent from my cabinet. The fact that certain figures are now circulating, which often prove to be incorrect, is something that I personally have nothing to do with, as you know. As already communicated to the press, the parameters for the distribution between the municipalities are the following: the population of the municipality 35%, the number of reception places that the municipality already offers today 30%, the total net taxable income 20%, the number of commuters 15%. The concrete effort required of each municipality is not yet definitively established in the sense that the photograph is only taken when it enters into force. One place is counted for each person. The sanction mechanism is currently being developed. The reception places must meet the basic criteria of the Law of 12 January 2007. In the present case, it concerns the reception places organized in accordance with the latter law. The distribution plan only covers asylum seekers. An online information brochure is already available online at www.fedasil.be/spreadplan. In this context, appropriate guidance will be provided to the municipalities concerned. As already communicated to the press, the aim is to bring the distribution plan into effect as soon as possible. This must first be laid down in a royal decree. Afterwards, a time limit will also be granted to organise the places in practice. I think you know I'm trying to be correct with all the city councils, whatever the color of the mayor is. I'm trying to be a Secretary of State to everyone. We can only deal with the crisis if everyone puts their shoulders on it, as you know as well as I do. I don't think this is right, because what you're saying is really not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u28	I understand your reaction. I must also be careful not to feel too responsible individually. You are a wise man, you know that when you approve something with the government this is sensitive information. You should be able to count on your fellow Members on discretion. The reality is that some of them are not discreet. I therefore believe that you should call these fellow Members to account, because they make the decision-making process and future policy very difficult. I had to do this myself at the time for the single statute and the negotiations on it. At that time I had to ask very explicitly not to blow up the matter in the press, because otherwise nothing would ever be realized. You must be able to count on your fellow Members. You've been there once. Next time, you will have to set up a communication strategy from the moment something is decided. That's the alternative. It is about individual responsibility, but also about responsibility in your position. Something like that creates a lot of distrust. It makes you feel like there's a foul play going on. I ask you, with good intentions, to take that into account. Please don't get caught on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u29	I do not want to continue the debate, but a mayor would very much like to know what he is up to in the next few months. I have also been asked what the figure is. They want to know if they're 10, 12 or 23 people. The question is asked by various channels to be informed of the situation for their own municipality. I can only tell you that I have also passed on these questions. I have also listened through other channels, but I do not know what the situation is today. He could only give the parameters. It is true that figures have been circulated in the press and in certain political parties. It is, of course, frustrating that one reacts in one way and the other in another way, creating an atmosphere of suspicion. One wonders what happened and why one knows something and the other doesn't. Everyone is responsible for their actions. I think the Secretary of State has explained his.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, according to my information, pharmacies must distribute medicines to refugees after the written prescription has been validated by the local CPAS. This validation is then sent by the pharmacies in question to Fedasil, who is responsible for paying them back. If that's not right, you'll tell me. At least that's the information I'm told. However, many pharmacies have been waiting for reimbursement for some time, but are no longer receiving news about the expiry date of reimbursements for drugs administered. It is important to know that these are often medicines that need to be administered as a matter of urgency and therefore, rather than waiting for Fedasil's agreement, pharmacies deliver them but are not clearly reimbursed because of an administrative problem. Can you tell me more about the reimbursement procedure? Is there a time limit in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u31	Mrs Jadin, different situations need to be distinguished: asylum seekers no show, i.e. those who choose not to go to the designated reception structure, who leave it voluntarily or who are waiting outside the reception network for an admissibility decision on the multiple asylum application; asylum seekers accepted into the reception networks in Fedasil, with the exception of those hosted by the ILA initiatives; and asylum seekers accepted into the ILAs managed by the CPAS. For the first two categories, there is indeed a system of reimbursement of pharmaceutical costs via Fedasil or its partners conditioned by the issuance of a requisition. However, this system does not imply any validation by the local CPAS. You may refer to recognized refugees, financially supported by a CPAS. These refugees have already left Fedasil's reception network. With regard to the third category, asylum seekers accepted in local reception initiatives managed by CPAS, the reimbursement system does not go through Fedasil but through the SPP Social Integration. With regard to your second question: in view of the increase in the number of asylum seekers accommodated in reception networks, Fedasil is well aware of the delays caused. Every effort is made to meet a 50-day deadline and to limit delays in reimbursements, particularly for small providers such as pharmacists. Three additional persons have recently been recruited from the relevant Fedasil department for the reimbursement of the medical expenses of asylum seekers no show. I think we've moved forward. That is a very good question, but we are working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and clarifications on the application procedure, on a case-by-case basis. It was very important. Sometimes pharmacists themselves get lost a little, as far as people who are still in the reception facilities are concerned. These answers will already allow me to give correct information. It's important too. I am pleased that you are working to further improve the existing structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of refugee parents who are unable to prove their kinship with their children. For those fleeing war zones or persecution in their country of origin, access to administrative documents, particularly with regard to civil status, is difficult, if not impossible. It appears that these parents who are unable to provide administrative proof of the filiation link are invited to use a DNA test to verify the actual biological links. This test has a cost of several hundred euros, which these people face serious moral and material difficulties. So my questions are as follows. Given the humanitarian crisis and the particular context experienced by these refugees, is there a less expensive way to prove the bond of filiation? If not, can they receive specific financial assistance to carry out this test?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u34	Mrs Ben Hamou, honourable member, the question of filiation and family ties in general is the subject of great attention on the part of the Asylum Department. This is a complex issue that needs to be addressed with great caution, both in terms of registration at the Agency and at the Fedasil reception centres and at the CGRA (Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons). Indeed, many questions are asked about their relations with their family members who either stayed in the country of origin or accompanied them into exile. The objectives are diverse: first, to manage asylum applications, taking into account the family members present; secondly, to provide reception and support with respect for family ties; also to collect information in order to verify the consistency between initial declarations and any subsequent applications relating to family members remaining in the country of origin; lastly, and above all, to ensure that situations of possible abuse and exploitation of one or the other person are not created or allowed to pass. For example, there may be doubts about parentage and an adult's intentions towards a child. Particular attention is also paid to situations that are contrary to our public order, such as the marriage of very young girls. There are many cases. Verification of effective family ties is therefore part of the protection of people, especially the most vulnerable, and it would be irresponsible to reduce the level of proof required in this context. The Agency shall provide the applicant and the group with the opportunity to conduct a DNA test when the civil status documents submitted in support of the family reunification visa application to establish the kinship relationship are not conclusive or when the civil status records have been destroyed. This is a possibility, not an obligation. Many people, however, do a DNA test. This test is a reliable means of proving a biological relationship between a parent and his or her child. It is carried out under a secure procedure set up in collaboration with the FPS Foreign Affairs. The application of this ADN procedure is in no way mandatory but offers the applicant, if he wishes to undergo this test, to avail himself of this procedure. This is a voluntary procedure and therefore not imposed by the Office. This use of the DNA test can only be made as a last resort. The use of this test cannot be systematic and cannot replace the presentation of documents. This secured procedure may either be requested by the applicant at the time of submission of the application for a family reunification visa or be proposed by the Office which, in view of the documents produced and elements contained in the applicant's file, is obliged to take a negative decision provided that proof of the filiation link is established by the DNA test. The cost of sampling and analysis shall be borne by the applicant. It is about 200 euros per person. As far as the costs of this procedure are concerned, I ask you to address the Minister responsible for social integration, Mr Borsus. This procedure is clearly explained orally by Agency staff to all those who wish to use it and offers other guarantees for all. The test is not mandatory but necessary. Continent by continent, there are great differences in result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for all these details. My question was about cost. I've been arrested by several families. Several people have been recognized as refugees, whose children are there, and are ready to take the test. The problem is the cost. People with four or five children cannot afford to pay for this DNA test.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u36	It is not my services that repay. It's not included in my budget. You have to ask Mr. Borsus if there is a refund. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u38	Mrs Jadin, you have the floor for your question. 8064.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u39	Mr President, Secretary of State, every year many families arrive in Belgium and apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u40	Madam, excuse me for interrupting, but I must refer here to Rule 122(b) of the Rules of the House. In doing so, the statistics cannot be provided to you in the context of an oral question. I would therefore ask you to address a written question to which I will not fail to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u41	Mr. Secretary of State, are you talking about my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u43	I will therefore ask you a written question, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u44	Mrs Smeyers, I mentioned that I would leave Mrs Jadin to speak first, but you are already up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u45	Mrs. Jadin, I've already told you. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State remains very objective. It was a good try.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u46	Rule 122b of the Rules of Procedure is a very interesting Rule for a member of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u47	We're hard learners, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u48	Mrs Smeyers, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, I hope you will not be able to use that answer to my question about unaccompanied minors. You've already given me some figures on that. At the beginning of the parliamentary year, I asked you about the increase in the number of unaccompanied minors applying for reception and asylum. In September 2015, 399 young people and children were involved. However, the figures for October 2015, i.e. a month later, already spoke of 563 data subjects, being 164 minors more at a month's time. At that time, some young people had doubts about their age, in particular whether or not they were minors. The figures up to August 2015 showed that out of the 1 305 minors who had applied for asylum, 733 were in doubt. An age study was then carried out on the basis of a bone scan. Of these 733 cases of doubt and therefore examined young people, 69 % appeared to be of age. Fortunately, in such cases, it is possible to ensure that the various services work together in a particularly efficient manner. It is about the Voogdij service, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, and is intended to ensure that, if they are minors, they receive proper guidance. However, the service should also report these cases to the DVZ and the CGVS. In any case, the investigation period is limited to nine days which, given the high influx of alleged minors, is still short. In the meantime, Mr Secretary of State, we're a few months away. Do you have any more recent figures? Can you give me an update? Can you give me more information on the number of young people subject to a bone scan and on the possible results? Do you think that additional measures are needed to limit the influx of alleged minors, whether in bad faith or not? In any case, we will have to take measures to reduce this high influx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, I can give you the following information. For 2015, until November, 3 115 foreigners declared themselves minors in their asylum application. For the 765 persons who registered as minors in November, not all age surveys have yet been carried out and there are no additional data. A total of 1 107 age studies were requested from January 2015 to October 2015. In 744 cases or 67 per cent of the 1 107 age studies, the declared minor was found to be of age. That's almost seven out of ten. This is an important element in the protection of genuine unaccompanied minors. By distinguishing the real from the fake, the right places for unaccompanied minors in the care will remain assured. Mrs. Smeyers, honestly, you are raising a very difficult point. I have another table of all kinds of data that I will hand over to you. This also causes a problem in the shelter. Because we are in the middle of many false minors, I have decided to involve all asylum seekers in doubt. If there's any doubt, research will be done. Seven out of ten appear to be of age and you know that the margin is rather wide. If one is found to be of age, then it will be. The cases of doubt are all housed in adult care. They are therefore no longer receiving the unaccompanied minors' shelter and are no longer going to an observation and orientation centre, an OOC. For years, that was a big taboo, but I introduced it. Mrs Smeyers, I am always open to good suggestions and legislative proposals or other interesting slopes, including at international level, which may come from a parliamentary assembly, to do something about them, because it is a really terrible problem. Mr President, last week's Chambers Committee was rather animated. At some point, I was being rather firm about the fact that I wouldn't give a bed to minors. I said here in the Chamber, in a smaller committee room than that in which we are now sitting, that we would first check whether the person concerned is actually underage. A few hours later, the person admitted himself to be an adult in his own declaration. From this, I can see that the person in question was brought before a Belgian court through his lawyer, who, in my view, is a victim who is spit out by almost all of Belgium, and that lawyer bears a very great responsibility. We live in a democratic state in which rights must be exercised. I have no problem with people going to trial against the Belgian State. Why would I have a problem with that, too? However, I can tell you that this issue leaves me with a very bitter taste, because I think that boy is a victim. It is an act which, in my view, is not an interested, but rather a politically inspired act by a young lawyer, which means that the person concerned must go to Germany because he is wronged here by as good as the whole country. Yeah, that wrings with me. At the Foreign Office, there's a van at the door almost all the time. When a group of asylum seekers comes out, the lawyers just fly there, supposedly to give advice. Well, I'm having a hard time with that. I have no problem with advice being given, but I thought it could not be deontological, either for doctors or lawyers, to actively recruit, and certainly not to recruit young people aged 17, 18 or 19 who, let me say, have not eaten too much cheese from a democratic legal system, since they come from countries where such a system has never existed. I'm having a very hard time with that. I have said this very clearly in the public debate and will continue to repeat it. I am not a lawyer, but I will accept all support from the Chamber with both hands, because I do not think such a thing is correct. Legal advice is a matter, hiring innocent 17 or 18-year-old customers is another matter. I do not think that winning the plea first and ultimately losing it, making the complainant a victim, is correct. I'm having a hard time with that. I do not know if the practices of the Foreign Affairs Office of a number of law firms and groups are all kosher. That's my opinion. I am asking myself a great many questions. Director-General Roosemont will therefore send a letter to the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking staff manager of the Brussels Bar. This really needs to be investigated, because to my knowledge, the lawyer's deontological code does not allow recruitment practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the number of applications is increasing, so questions can be asked. Not everyone, however, is in bad faith. There are two possibilities. Either one really does not know one's age, or one knows one's age, but one is encouraged by a lawyer or malicious person to prolong the procedure and pretend to be underage through the system of bone scans. The measure you have taken in order, in case of doubt, not to express an opinion in favour of the asylum seeker, but to his disadvantage, and to regard him as an adult, is a step in the right direction and will have a deterrent effect. People who are in good faith and the real minors will not be deterred because they have nothing to lose, quite the contrary. The others can only be discouraged to initiate the procedure. I'll come to the story of the penalty payment. You correctly estimated that this person was not a minor. It's good that this comes to the attention. However, it is unfortunate that this asylum seeker is advised by lawyers to extend that procedure or to try to increase protection in this way. In this way one takes the place of real minors. You yourself say that ethical questions can be asked. The law is the law and one can indeed walk that slope. However, we are facing a global crisis. At national level, there is a very high influx. It is up to the various counters to make an appeal to use the law correctly and certainly not to abuse it. We must all row with the belts we have. The law is there to protect real minors and should not be abused by crooked recruiters or lawyers who hope to prolong the procedure in this way or to obtain false protection for minors who are actually of age. I hope that the order will assume its responsibilities in this respect, and I hope that it will touch on the little deontological and ethical attitude of such lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u52	(...) (without micro).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u53	I'll make that call, too. The figures are a good coat rack for that. Thank you for that. I think it might be a good idea to charge adult asylum seekers, who have acted effectively in bad faith, the extra cost of a bone scan in the course of the procedure. A bone scan alone costs about 200 euros and then I don't charge the staff cost. A total of around 300 euros will soon be released. By acting in this way in their asylum procedure, these asylum seekers are wrongly jeopardising the entire system of investigations and additional protection in the OOC. I think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u54	That's an interesting suggestion, Mrs. Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u55	Mrs Smeyers, I am very pleased with your reply. I know you're particularly interested in this case. There are interested lawyers and there are politically inspired lawyers. Apparently, there's a big difference between the two. I've noticed that in the past few months. There is also the crisis of 2010, on which we have written a book together. So that second story isn't gone. We urgently need to do something about this. After all, who is the victim of this situation? Those are the twelve and thirteen-year-olds who are now also arriving weekly and applying for asylum. Even children aged 8, 9, 10 or 12 are offered. These are obviously minors who are in very precarious situations. They're the victims of abuse by guys who say they're minors, but they're de facto up to 32 years old, as the bone scan shows. They are 32 years old, and dare say they are 17 years old. There is therefore an urgent need to do something about this. I will therefore make a proposal to the Council of Ministers, because we need to intervene. It can't go on like this. I also discussed the matter with my Swedish colleague, because Sweden is also struggling with this problem. There's got to be a solution somewhere. There is a manifest abuse of the procedure because Dublin does not apply to minors, so that one can stay in the country anyway because one cannot be expelled. In addition, they think they can use two procedures. This is due to the Lanji bill approved by the Chamber in January. They can bet on the asylum procedure and the special protection procedure, so they have two chances, they think. Finally, there is better care and more guidance. However, these places are now taken by adults, while real children aged 12 or 13 are the victims of these situations in very precarious situations. I really can't talk about that. I welcome any parliamentary initiative, either by the majority or by the entire Chamber, to finally tackle this situation. I'm talking about the lawyers. 99 % are bona fide lawyers, but that 1% makes it particularly difficult for the 99 %. In addition, recruitment to the Foreign Affairs Office must cease. I will also do everything in my power to stop it, because it is not deontologically correct. Advice may be given, but no customers are recruited. You can't do that. I will take an initiative with regard to the President-in-Office of the Council and I hope that Parliament will also take initiatives to put an end to this. It can't be. There's too much money going on in the immigration industry. In fact, I wrote a book on this with Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with you and I will take the necessary legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u57	Mr President, Secretary of State, between January and August 2015, no less than 500,000 migrants arrived at the borders of Europe, often after a perilous voyage in a makeshift boat provided by smugglers. Once the EU's external border is crossed, refugee candidates still have to travel long distances to reach a registration office. In addition, countries on Europe's borders are overwhelmed by the influx of refugees and therefore require measures to support reception and relocation. In late summer, for example, European leaders agreed on the creation of hotspots, registration centres in some European Union countries (in Hungary, Italy and Greece), which opened in November. These hotspots will be responsible for receiving and identifying refugee candidates, collecting their testimonies, taking fingerprints and determining whether they can be accepted as refugee candidates on European Union soil. If this is the case, they will have to be relocated to one of the 28 Member States, in accordance with the relocation plan decided by the European Union, to allocate the "burden" to all Member States. Otherwise, they will be returned to the border for deportation. Secretary of State, can you tell me whether these hotspots are now 100% operational? If not, when will they be? How are these hotspots organized? How are the roles distributed among States, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO)? How are the operations in these registration centres conducted? Are all procedures, including fingerprinting, well followed? Are these hotspots secure? In what way? Is an evaluation of these hosts planned? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u59	Secretary of State, my question was about hotspots. If I were in the opposition, I'd say you didn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u60	I listened to you, but I had an idea that I'm going to pass on to my firm. Hotspots were created with the aim of identifying and registering all persons, whether asylum seekers or not, who crossed the Mediterranean to reach the external borders of Italy or Greece. Systematic fingerprinting is also planned. In these hotspots, different EU agencies work together with national authorities. Frontex assists with border controls and ensures identification and registration. EASO assists with the relocation process, mainly by informing asylum seekers about the possibilities and consequences of relocation to another EU Member State. UNHCR collaborates with EU agencies and national authorities by providing information or advice. The number of people who have been relocated from Italy or Greece to a Member State of the European Union is very limited. To date, 160 people, or 0.1 per cent, have been involved. This can be partly explained by the poor functioning of hotspots. In Greece, it is planned to create five hotspots in Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Cos. Only the Lesbos hotspot is now operational. A systematic recording and fingerprinting of each migrant is carried out. Similarly, in Italy, only one of the six hotspots planned is currently operational, that of Lampedusa. The hotspots of Porto Empedocle, Trapani, Augusta, Taranto and Pozzallo must be installed by the end of the year. It is also a frustration not only for my colleges but also for the Prime Minister. A European summit will take place on Thursday and Friday in Brussels. The Prime Minister will be present. However, even if a complete and systematic registration was implemented, this would not mean that each person intending to apply for asylum within the European Union would do so in the country of arrival, in this case Italy or Greece; this is a condition for taking into account a relocation. These hotpsots do not prevent the fact that many migrants who arrive immediately return to Northern or Eastern Europe. To date, hotspots are not equipped to be centres in which migrants could be accommodated pending the examination of their asylum application, their relocation to another EU Member State or pending their return to their country of origin. In Italy, after their registration, migrants are sent to reception centres throughout Italy, where asylum applications may be lodged. In Greece, after being registered, most migrants immediately join the continent. Secondly, they are headed north or west of Europe where many will apply for asylum. Belgium has already repeatedly expressed its serious concerns about the malfunctioning of hotspots and has made it necessary for people from Italy or Greece to relocate to improve the operation of hotspots. I don't relocate when hotspots don't work. When hotspots work, there are fewer asylum applications in Brussels. In that case, I'm relocating. Currently, the way they operate is a total disaster. I am not relocating and I repeat it to colleagues at every European meeting. Relocation can only work when the mechanism reduces secondary flows – i.e. requests in Brussels. This is currently not the case. Control at the external borders does not work optimally, given the lack of systematic identification and registration of all entries and the fact that a prolonged stay in the hotspots and an effective return policy is not possible or insufficient. Belgium has already made an important contribution by providing several experts for Italy and Greece. We need our experts in Belgium for the moment. We do it, we are in solidarity; but the hotspots do not work and that is not correct. The European Commission has sent four experts to support the development of hotspots in Italy and Greece. A first formal assessment will take place six months after the entry into force of the Council's decisions on relocation, i.e. in March 2016. Your question is really the main question about the debate on the global and, above all, European asylum crisis. As hotspots don't work, we can't work properly. That's impossible! The Prime Minister always takes this point of view, but one day we will have to conclude. By the end of November, the hotspots were supposed to work. It's December 15 and it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u61	If there were ten that worked and one that did not, that would be acceptable. But it's really the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u62	I believe that the government, together with all the parties that make up it, must reach a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, I am very pleased to have asked you the question to take stock of the situation. You're telling me the reality on the ground, which doesn't work. It doesn't work. We do not need publicity effects in the current crisis. Europe really has a role to play. It puts pressure on us to ensure that each Member State plays its part, but it does not play the role it has committed itself to. I'll be right with you. I think that, since there is a summit on Thursday and Friday, it is high time that the Member States put their fists on the table and could tell Europe that it has not fulfilled its tasks in relation to the hotspots, which are very important to allow each Member State to play its part. God knows it's not easy to play each one's part! It is really not simple, even when applications are accepted and refugees arrive in our communes, where they must be integrated - especially through French or Dutch courses. If we want to play our integrative and filter role, Europe must also set an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic295x.u64	Questions Nos 7690 and 8066 by Mr Kir are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 7940 reply had already been answered as part of Mrs De Coninck's joint question.
