ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, dear colleague, I propose that we start our work even if we are not numerous for this small set of questions. As Bedos puts it, "many called but few chosen" this morning in this commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am glad to ask you this question. It deals with a problem (the restitution of works of art) which is becoming increasingly important. In our country, this issue has already been raised on several occasions in parliamentary debates, whether at federal level or at the level of the federated entities, particularly in the Vlaamse Raad and the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This growing interest is not surprising, given the phenomenon of cultural globalization and, at the same time, the desire of peoples to regain their historical, heritage and cultural roots. Similarly, it is easy to understand, as far as we are concerned in Belgium, that the process of federalisation of our State also leads to an increasing attention to the cultural, intellectual and artistic heritage of the Communities. With this in mind, in November 2011, the European Commission opened a consultation on Directive 93/7/EEC on a mechanism for the restitution of cultural property between Member States. In this case, I quote, "goods of great value such as paintings, sculptures, religious works and archaeological objects", goods which had illegally left the territory. Criticism was expressed against this directive, in particular considering that its scope was not sufficiently broad. Indeed, in this area, especially in the last ten years, there has been a "extension of the field of struggle", to use a well-known formula. Many States or private or semi-official associations have filed restitution claims, many of which have been successful. An infamous case is that of works of art stolen by the Nazis from Jewish families. At present there would still be some 4,400 paintings and 800 sculptures distributed among the 6,000 German museums. Many cases also concern Greece, another well-known example, including the claim for the Victory of Samothrace. Our regions were also stripped of a significant part of their artistic heritage, between 1794 and 1814, by the French army. The works, many Rubens among others, were distributed among French museums. Some of them were returned. But not all, in particular on the pretext that the Belgian State did not yet exist at the time when the works were carried away. But as far as I know, the French state has also gone through several constitutional stages. In November 2011, on my proposal, the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation unanimously voted on a motion for a resolution to initiate a procedure for the return by France of a work of Rubens which, in my view, still belongs to the Cathedral of Tournai. Indeed, this work was stolen to be declared property of the Museum of Fine Arts of Nantes where it is, moreover, still exposed. The French-speaking PS-cdH government was unable to activate the parliamentary resolution, which had been voted unanimously. Minister, I know that cultural competence is the responsibility of the Communities. However, I would like to have your opinion on this subject concerning our museums and scientific institutes. Has any thought been given to this by your administration? Like what several Belgian foreign ministers have said before the federal parliament, would you be prepared to support a request to the French State, a member like Belgium of the European Union, for the return of masterpieces whose Belgian ownership would be unquestionably demonstrated in order to return them to the cities of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, question No. 1276 by Mr Dedecker on the same subject. Normally, those questions should be merged. Do you want to merge them together or do you have two different answers ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u4	I have two different answers, but I can put them together. The first part of the answer is similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u5	I would now like to ask Mr Dedecker his question and reply to both my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question deals with the same subject matter as Mr Miller. I too would like to hear what has happened to the implementation of the Paris Convention of 1815, which stipulates that all works of art stolen by France, which are currently in the Louvre, must be returned to its rightful owners. It is about more than 5,000 pieces and the colleague has given a good overview of some of them. As Mr Miller has already pointed out, not all of the stolen art was now returned to the rightful owners. On the contrary, the majority is still in the Louvre, a legacy from Napoleon's time. There is even more of Napoleon's legacy in our state. Madam Secretary of State, how many of these looted works of art have already returned to the rightful owner? To what extent will the agreements of that Convention continue to be implemented? Which works may not be returned? Is there a reason for that? What's that reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u7	Mr President, Mr Miller, Mr Dedecker, the works of art looted during the Napoleonic period also in our countries have been dispersed throughout French territory. They were then, among other things, housed in regional French museums. Although important works of art were returned by the French government after the Vienna Congress of 1815, such as Peter Paul Rubens's Descent of the Cross at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Antwerp, some works of art from ecclesiastical and private collections have not returned to our countries. These works were considered lost or missing. In 1880, a first systematic research carried out at the initiative of Christian Piot resulted in the publication of the Report to the Minister of the Interior on the paintings taken from Belgium in 1794 and returned in 1815. This book details the works of art that had been declared missing and those returned. These are, in fact, some paintings dating essentially from the 17th and 18th centuries, which belonged to the Church, having been carried away from our countries. But there is no study of the type of cultural property looted, such as libraries and archives. Cultural property such as paintings, libraries and archives looted during the Second World War were the subject of legally executed international agreements. The works of art that disappeared during the Napoleonic period were never the subject of treaties or legal provisions. Even after its independence, Belgium has never taken any official or diplomatic steps to demand from France works of art that have disappeared. France has recently given a negative opinion on the restitution of two paintings by Rubens of the Cathedral of Tournai, as well as on the restitution of the room of the high altar of Rubens of the Church of Saint Paul of Antwerp, which is currently in Lyon. Since this problem of restitution is now always examined on a case-by-case basis, i.e. work of art by work of art, it seems to me appropriate to carry out a more systematic case-based study. The aim of this study will be to represent the extent of looting and to define a legal and legal framework. In this respect, consultations may take place between my collaborators of the Scientific Policy, the SPF Justice and the administrations of the Flemish Community and the French Community of Belgium, respectively the Arts and Heritage Agency for the Flemish Community and the Heritage Service for the French Community. Mr Dedecker, your question overlaps somewhat, but you asked another question about the number of missing, looted and missing works of art from that period. The main list of Piot from 1880 contains 271 numbers of which 90 works of art. A third was in Belgium or had already been refunded. This list lists 87 works with an unknown place of residence. Of the 271 works of art there are 74 works, mainly paintings, with a well-known location in France, especially in Bordeaux, Lille, Rennes and Lyon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I believe that your proposal to set up a systematic case-based study that would establish the extent of looting and define a legal framework that would allow negotiations to begin that would not only be a request on a case-by-case basis is an excellent initiative. We will remain attentive to the developments in this matter. I assume that once you have gone a little further, you will report back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I think it is very positive that you want to work with the Communities to further develop the inventory and take steps to recover as many works as possible, especially if they are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u10	Question No 777 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, on 13 January the European Parliament adopted an amendment to Directive 2001/18/EC to give Member States greater flexibility in dealing with GMOs on their own territory. Member States may still prohibit GMOs authorised at European level, of course following a very thorough risk assessment by the European Food Safety Authority, by using the so-called safeguard clause. They must justify that decision by demonstrating that the GMO can harm humans or the environment. A number of countries already do this with certain insect-resistant maize. It is a compromise, because many Member States are at present obstructing the general authorisation of GMOs at European level. In this way a number of relaxations could be obtained. In Ghent there is a strong biotech cluster around the VIB. Thanks to this biotech cluster, Flanders, like Wallonia, also has a strong cluster, has a very strong position on biotechnology and the development of GMOs. Genetically modified plants are even a Ghent invention, thanks to pioneers such as Jeff Schell and Marc Van Montagu. That's really something to be proud of. GGO research can offer many interesting opportunities to combat nutrient scarcity and certain diseases, provided it is applied in a safe manner. Firstly, does the change have an impact on scientific research in our biotech clusters, universities and companies? Secondly, does our country have plans to ban certain permitted crops? The views on GMO research in Flanders and Wallonia are quite different. How can a possible cultivation ban be established in Belgium? Agriculture is a competence of the Regions. What possibilities do you see to give Flanders full power to authorise research into and cultivation of GMOs? Thirdly, the coalition agreement stipulates that we will not do gold plating. Can you confirm that this also applies to GMO cultivation and that it is not the government's intention to ban the cultivation of GMOs authorised at European level in Belgium? Do we want to be here, yes or no, more holy than the Pope? Fourthly, what do you think is the indirect impact on our research centres, should a subsequent government adopt a stricter attitude towards GMOs? Can these research centres retain their standing if the results of their research in Belgium, even the country of pioneers of that research, are treated more strictly than in the rest of the world, let alone in the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, the debate on genetically modified organisms has been on hold in Europe since 1990 and is being blocked at European level. An amended directive is now coming towards us. The debate will therefore have to be resumed. Public perception of GMOs is often negative. Everyone remembers from 2011 the activists on the test field for the cultivation of GMO potatoes in Wetteren. The opponents argue that the safety of GMOs is not sufficiently proven. They point to the potential misuse of GMO fertilizers. For example, there is the example of multinational Monsanto, which contractually anchors certain modified crops to the use of highly toxic weed killers and fertilisers. The cultivation of GMOs is mostly in the hands of large agrochemical companies, which, with their activities, can lead to the deterioration of biodiversity and the associated ecosystems, the loss of the independence of organic or non-organic farming and the depletion of agricultural land. The advocates point out that plant breeding is of all times and that the benefits associated with the cultivation of GMOs are also scientifically proven: higher production, more rational use of space, fewer pesticides, less failed harvests and more stable prices. Moreover, the biotechnical improvement of crops responds to the climate challenges that we are facing globally, and that improvement also increases food quality and food security. Indeed, the example of potatoes, which developed resistance to potato disease through GMO technology, is well known, so that in Belgium alone a thousand tonnes of fungicides need not be sprayed. Especially if the European Food Agency gives the green light to certain crops, biotechnological agriculture can be an advantage for people and the environment, and then those GMOs must also be allowed. As the honourable Member said, with our country, we have been at the forefront of biotechnological agriculture for a few decades, thanks to research and applications that have begun at the University of Ghent. The Technology Park in Ghent is the largest concentration of biotechnology companies throughout Europe. It is now waiting to see how state governments will react to the amended European GMO Directive. Madam Secretary of State, what is the government's view on GMO fertilizers? How can the fear of tying be eliminated, according to opponents, the biggest problem in this respect, and I do not think that this fear is entirely unjustified by the producers of GMO crops with herbicides, insecticides and fertilizers, so that biodiversity and the environment are not under pressure? Are you prepared to engage in an objective federal debate on GMOs from your federal competence in the field of science policy, so that the EU directive can lead to a common policy? After all, it is impossible for farmers from below the language border in our country to have to deal with cultivation in a different way than above the language border.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u13	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, thank you, Belgian scientists have played a pioneering role and have built up expertise and continue to play a leading role in the development of biotechnologies and GMOs. As Secretary of State for Science Policy, I will support and strengthen that expertise within the limits of my powers. I can also tell you that the amendment in the European directive, including the field trials, will not affect research and innovation, because it aims at cultivation conditions and not scientific developments. I am not strictly competent for the authorisation or prohibition of cultivation of GMOs for commercial purposes in the Belgian territory. The Ministers responsible are Mrs De Block, Minister for Health, Mr Borsus, Minister for Agriculture, and Mrs Marghem, Minister for the Environment. The task of the General Directorate 4 of the Public Health Office is to implement the amendment of the European Directive on this subject on the basis of an interfederal consultation and in consultation with the Regions. From my competence, I will always encourage our scientists to provide substantiated arguments about, among other things, the socio-economic impact in the context of the activities linked to the project ELSA of Ethics, Legal and Social Aspects of the Life Sciences and Technologies. For example, the ricks assessment studies are continued. As I have said, I am strictly not competent for the prohibition of the cultivation of GMO fertilizers. However, the government's decision will be based on objective criteria and, as Secretary of State for Science Policy, I will have those scientific criteria and arguments developed. The research on GMOs is supported by the private sector, sub-regions and the federal government. The federal government now aims to rationalise available scientific expertise and create new synergies in order to optimise the socio-economic benefit from the sustainable exploitation of the scientific progress made. It will therefore, of course, not oppose the development of such expertise, which also offers social added value to producers and consumers in Belgium and Europe. I shall now turn to your specific questions, Mrs. Temmerman. GMO research, valorisation and sales are largely in the hands of the private sector and the Länder. As Secretary of State for Science Policy, it is my duty to ensure that the federal resources for scientific research into GMOs result in objective and relevant studies. The preservation of biodiversity and climate pressures are evident elements of such studies. The risk analysis studies even focus specifically on these aspects. As far as your third question is concerned, the revised European directive on the cultivation of GMOs for commercial purposes requires decisions at the competent authority level, namely the Regions. The reasons cited, by any region, for prohibiting or authorising the cultivation of GMOs on its own territory will not be based on criteria for risk assessment, which involves scientific debates and clarifications, but on, inter alia, environmental and agricultural policy aspects. However, in order to place GMOs on the market, it is necessary to consult the competent Public Health Office. The FPS should also consult with the Regions so that the federal government decides by means of a safeguard clause to restrict the cultivation of GMO fertilizers. In a wider context, the Regions should consult with the federal government on matters that affect one of its areas of competence. In addition to this political dialogue, it may prove necessary to have a broad public debate in which scientists take responsibility for obvious reasons, namely for providing substantiated arguments in order to be able to make an objective decision. I will also urge them to do so. These scientific studies and risk analyses can of course be used by the Regions to take them into account in their policies and policy choices. As I said, in order to start the debate, I will contact my fellow Members from the Committee on Agriculture, Public Health and the Environment in order to make the scientific contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the once again comprehensive answer. I welcome your positive and proactive attitude towards the investigation. You want to continue to support scientific research that is of great economic and ecological importance to our country. We have a top position in this area that we must not let go of. You want to continue to work on this, and that seems to me to be a very good thing. Your answer also illustrates the complexity of this country. You have listed a large number of bodies that we will have to take into account. Not only in the Länder, but also in the federal government itself, the complexity in this area is particularly high. This does not make it obvious, of course. Mrs Temmerman has given a very interesting overview of a number of advantages and disadvantages in her question. I think it is very important to distinguish between the research and the technique of GMO fertilizers and what we will do with them. I believe that certain economic and environmental practices cannot be pursued. Mrs Temmerman gave the example of tying in with regard to exterminators. This is indeed an example of a practice that we cannot approve, but this does not rule out the fact that a particular GMO technique is and can be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, I regard the fact that you have only thanked Mr Dedecker as a forgetfulness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u16	I have given a general thank you for the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u17	Yes, but you only mentioned Mr Dedecker, but I really consider this to be a forgetfulness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u18	No, I started with an answer to Mr Dedecker's question. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Dedecker for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u19	I only consider this to be an oblivion, let us be clear about that. So let us forget about it. Mr Dedecker has already said that you are very clear about the complexity of our country. I think we should think about that. I am somewhat disappointed when you say that things such as tying are in the hands of private companies and that the government cannot do anything about it. I think the government can do something about that. By the way, this has already happened in the past. We must separate scientific research from applications. However, both are inherently linked. I believe that it is certainly up to the government to deal with any abuses which are also detrimental to food safety and health. Public authorities must not confine themselves to establishing that this is a matter for the private sector. In fact, I find this very disappointing. I welcome the fact that you want to start the debate. They need to be dismembered, but from practice we know that they are inherently connected. I therefore hope that you will take the lead in this. I agree with what Mr Dedecker said. It is very important for our country, because we are the leaders of the world in this matter. It is very important that both aspects of food safety and the quality and quantity of food are scientifically supported, as well as the positive aspects, so that we can inform public opinion properly and objectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, since the opening of the Museum of Musical Instruments (mim) in 2000, a collaboration has been established with the Conservatoire for the organization of free concerts. It provides for the provision of the Mim room free of charge, in exchange for programming provided by the students and teachers of the Conservatoire. Thanks to the enthusiasm, efforts and perseverance of the Mim and Conservatoire teams, this win-win collaboration has developed remarkably over time, with an audience always at the rendezvous. Unfortunately, the management of the Conservatory received on December 18 a message from the Director General ad interim of MRAH, Mr.Éric Gubel, informing him that because of the austerity measures imposed by the federal government, the Mim would charge for the use of its concert hall from January 1, 2015. Interim tariffs have been set, while they will increase as of March 1st. The rental of this room is 900 euros – which is amazing given its capacity and prices in Brussels. The director of the Conservatory, Mr. Frédéric de Roos, immediately contacted the management of the Royal Museums of Art and History in order to express his disagreement with this decision and to request its re-evaluation. The situation is blocked for the moment. In view of the limited resources of the Conservatory and the free of charge of the concerts, he was forced to suspend until further notice the concerts scheduled for midday. The same applies to competitions organised by the academies and the City of Brussels, which is the first victim. This kind of deplorable situation risks repeating itself, given the fiscal restrictions imposed on the cultural world by the federal government. In this case, it is quite regrettable that it is up to students in full learning and an amateur audience of classical music to pay for it. Could you give us explanations and figures on the restrictions imposed on the mim? Is it not time to reverse the budgetary decisions that have been made without consultation with museums? Can you not reserve exceptions in favour of schools and conservatories that fulfil an educational mission, but now face the budgetary restrictions imposed on federal museums.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u21	Ms. Lalieux, the government has imposed budgetary restrictions on federal scientific institutions, including the Royal Museums of Art and History, which are therefore obliged to develop new policy options in the direction of more rational and objective expenditure management. This therefore means, for the Museum of Musical Instruments, reviewing certain advantages granted free of charge to third parties. From now on, external users will have to pay an amount set out in the Ministerial Order of 26 March 2002 for the rental of the concert hall. Of course, consultations have taken place in order to redefine the relations between the Mim, the Royal Conservatory of Brussels and the other historical partners in order to guarantee a certain flexibility in the administration of public events. At the end of January, it was agreed to apply very advantageous rates for the rental of the concert hall by the Royal Conservatory of Brussels and all other conservatories. Thus, the use of the room for their concerts, but also for their master-classes - individual rehearsals of students and exam sessions open to the public - will be sustainable. A conservatory will pay only the symbolic amount of 100 euros for a 12-half-day season; other bodies wishing to use the room will be obliged to pay 450 euros of rent for a half-day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This question is not a recent one, but we do not often answer questions in our Committee on the Economy. Fortunately, the Conservatory has had a violent reaction, as these unilateral measures are very unpleasant. Apart from the Conservatory, the academies use it. For example, the City of Brussels organises a two-day competition bringing together all the academies of the Brussels Region. So you imagine that for such a contest, we have to spend 3,000 euros. I think that for students between the ages of 8 and 16, this is a huge amount of money. Besides, we were ready to cancel the contest. That will not be the case, because we would punish all students, teachers and parents. I find it unacceptable that such a room will be underutilized because it costs too much, for budgetary reasons. Good for conservatories; the decision that concerns them is positive. But other associations went there. Perhaps this whole policy should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, it's not a new problem. My party has been following the evolution of relations in the federal scientific institutions for more than ten years. To date, they have been very unevenly divided between Dutch and French speakers in two areas. Firstly, there were no language frameworks for a long time. In the meantime, most institutions do have a language framework. These language frameworks in themselves already constitute an injustice, because they are of course not a reflection of the real relations in the population. For the majority of the scientific institutions, they are set at a ratio of 50% Dutch-speaking and 50% French-speaking. This is a disadvantage for the Flemings, given that they make up about 60% of the population of our country. As far as lower relations are concerned, there is also a disadvantage for the Flemings. Its distribution should in principle be determined according to the working volume criterion. However, there is often a strong deviation from this by also taking into account the so-called study and conception tasks and matters of general management and general interest, for which, according to Belgian arithmetic, parity is also defined by definition. The result is that for most federal scientific institutions a language framework of 50 % Dutch speakers and 50 % French speakers has been established. This institutionalized discrimination is apparently not enough. In practice, it appears that the Flemings are actually being harmed a second time, because the unjust language frameworks are not even respected in practice. Real language relations differ from that to the detriment of the Flemings. I have looked into the current situation on the federal web site with the statistics on federal staff. The latest figures date from 30 June 2014. For all scientific institutions together, a ratio of 52.27 % of relations in the federal scientific institutions occupied by French speakers and only 47.66 % by Flemings is achieved. In theory, assuming the 50/50 ratio for the language framework, at least 69 relationships are lost, to which the Flemings are entitled under the law. In reality, the Flemings do not do more jobs, because for at least six of the fifteen federal scientific institutions the language frameworks are different from the 50/50 ratio. Taking into account the actual population share of 60%, the Flemings in the scientific institutions receive no less than 367 jobs. Most of the time, they're highly qualified jobs. If we look at the federal scientific institutions separately, we have to note that in all the institutions, the actual language relations are to the detriment of the Flemings. One institution is already worse than the other. I'll get the worst out for you. At the Royal Observatory, only 42.4 % of jobs go to Flemings. In the Belgian Institute for Space Aeronomy this is 43.1 %, in the Royal Library 44 % and in the Royal Museums of Art and History 45.1 %. It is a pity to note that in recent years, despite many promises, no systematic efforts have been made to correct the distortions. My former colleague, Joris Van Hauthem, started the whole thing in the Senate in 2005. At that time, the proportions in general were 47.45 % of Dutch speakers compared with 52.55 % of French speakers. So many years later, we continued to follow up on the dossier, and my colleague Bart Laeremans raised that again in 2013. At that time we had to see that there was an improvement in this unacceptable situation in seven to eight years, albeit a very slow one. On January 1, 2013, eight years later, according to the federal web site pdata, they had reached a ratio of 50%, but since then it has gone downhill again for the Flemings. On 1 January 2014 the share had fallen again to 49.47 % and according to the latest figures we are now again 47.66 %. So we were struck back to the point where we were ten years ago. In the last ten years, therefore, the political leaders have done very little about this. Then Minister Verwilghen acknowledged the problem and made promises to straighten it out, but he failed. His French successors to Science Policy have made no effort to speed things up. So my hope is now for you, Madam Secretary of State, now that you have the authority to do so, because you have the opportunity and the opportunity to eliminate these abuses. My specific questions are therefore the following. First of all, what's the explanation? How has the language relationships in the federal scientific institutions changed again in the last two years to the detriment of the Flemings? Who's responsible for that? Secondly, do you recognise the problem? Unlike your predecessors, do you have the political will to change language relations in the short term, so that the Flemings get at least the jobs to which they are entitled according to the already unjust language frameworks? If so, can you tell me how you are going to deal with this and what period you are going to set? At what time can we expect results in this respect? Finally, Madam Secretary of State, are you considering doing something about these unjust language frameworks, as they are currently applied in the language law for administrative matters and by the Standing Committee on Language Control, but which, as I have pointed out, are already unjust in itself? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Pas, thank you for your question. As you yourself have said, I would like to point out that the language frameworks laid down in the royal decrees in force apply to the division of relations between the federal scientific institutions. They speak of a 50/50 ratio and therefore do not assume a 60/40 ratio, to which you refer. The figures of language relations in the federal scientific institutions evolved in a favourable way over the last few years in their entirety. An analysis of the total staff of the ten federal scientific institutions over the past ten years confirms that in 2004 46% of the staff belonged to the so-called Dutch language role, while 54% of the staff belonged to the French language role. That imbalance still exists to this day. However, it was gradually reduced to 48.1 % for the Dutch language role and 51.9 % for the French language role in 2014. The total staff for 2014 amounts to just over 2 400 staff. I would also like to point out that other important aspects of human resources have also been brought into my attention, such as the lack of a statute for contractual scientists and the inability to include talented international scientists in the language framework. As you know, the research world is more and more internationally oriented, not just national or regional. I want the FWIS to always pursue number 1 as a priority in order to attract the most talented and high-quality staff. I would also like to point out that the staff in the FWIS is not only made up of scientific staff but also, of course, of technical, administrative and general support staff. As regards the individual federal scientific institutions, I would like to say that in one FWI there is an equality between Dutch speakers and French speakers according to the language frameworks, namely in the Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences. In two of the ten institutions there is a majority of Dutch-speaking staff. In the other seven institutions there is indeed a majority of French-speaking staff. My intention is to reduce language relations to normal proportions, as foreseen. I will ensure that the positive trend is maintained and that we can meet this in the short term through the necessary recruitments. As Secretary of State for the Federal Science Policy, I consider it desirable, as I have said, that these language framework relations should be properly respected. In future, we will be able to take the necessary action through human resources policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. The figures for pdata do not seem to be entirely correct if the positive trend you mentioned is continued. However, you must admit that it is progressing very slowly. In this way we are still working for 40 years before the relations are in order, if we continue at this pace. You did not set a deadline for the implementation of the language frameworks. It will happen as soon as possible. I hope this will indeed be true. I have not received an answer to my question as to whether you are going to change the language frameworks yourself. The 50/50 distribution that is already detrimental to the Flemings applies to most scientific institutions. Are you just gonna keep it? I am somewhat concerned because this very slow pace is continuing. In the Belgian Official Journal today I have read a whole series of new appointments for the Federal Public Service Science Policy. I'll light one out. I have just said that the Royal Observatory is one of the worst, with only 42.4% Dutch speakers. I have not had the time to check the language role of all the new appointments made today in the Belgian Official Journal, but there were at least two French speakers again. I am very concerned that it will continue at this very slow pace and that a fair relationship will only come within a few decades. Mr President, I am therefore tabling a motion of recommendation to take the necessary measures very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u26	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud, and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, - having regard to the language law in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966 (SWT), - whereas the SWT provides that the language frameworks for the division of relations between the language groups in the central administration must be "with due regard, on all the steps of the hierarchy, to the essential importance of representing the Dutch and French linguistic areas respectively for each service"; - whereas the Flemings account for about 60% of the population of that country; - having regard to the language frameworks of the various federal scientific institutions; - whereas these language frameworks often do not reflect "the essential importance of the Dutch and French language regions" and are seriously at the disadvantage of the Flemings; - whereas, according to the Federal Website pdata on 30 June 2014, 52.27% of the relations in the federal scientific institutions are occupied by French speakers and only 47.66 % by Flemings; - whereas in this way the real language relations in the federal scientific institutions are still well below the language relations already detrimental to the Flemings as they were established in language frameworks; - whereas these distortions have existed for decades and there is little improvement to be seen, Asks the Secretary of State for Science Policy to take all necessary measures in the very short term to ensure that the real language relations in all federal scientific institutions, as far as the Flemings are concerned, comply at least with the language relationships as laid down in the language frameworks. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud and Scientific Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, - having regard to the law s on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966 (LLC); - Whereas the LLCs stipulate that jobs between the language groups of the central government services must be distributed "taking into account, to all degrees of the hierarchy, the importance of the French-language region and the Dutch-language region for each service, respectively"; - Whereas almost 60 % of the population of the country are Dutch-speaking; - having regard to the linguistic frameworks of the various federal scientific institutions; - Whereas these linguistic frameworks are rarely in line with "the importance of the French-speaking region and the Dutch-speaking region respectively" and seriously affect the Dutch-speaking population; - Considering that, according to the federal website pdata, 52,27% of the jobs in federal scientific institutions were occupied by Francophones on 30 June 2014 and only 47.66 % by Dutch speakers; - Whereas this distribution further accentuates the linguistic distribution already unfavourable to Dutch-speaking people as established under the language frameworks of federal scientific institutions; - considering that this imbalance has persisted for decades and that the progress made is meagre, Requests the Secretary of State for Science Policy to take all necessary measures in the very near future to ensure that the linguistic distribution in all federal scientific institutions is at least in full compliance with the distribution provided for by the linguistic frameworks for Dutch speakers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u27	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this question follows the discussion about your hearing as Secretary of State and your policy brief. Being in opposition, I had abstained, as you had indicated your willingness to maintain an exception for federal scientific institutions and to secure space funding with a true vision. You had even told us about the creation of the agency with real funding and a catch-up on the financing of the past. No matter what form these different policies take, as long as the means are present and these policies can be carried out. I wanted to believe in your commitments. I confess that by reading La Libre Belgique on February 4, 2015, I am a little afraid. Rather than let it pass and let it appear that you may not keep your commitments, I prefer to allow you to correct the shot! The press article states: "EIke SIeurs would have managed to release a pot of some EUR 15 million (taken from space) for an operation one shot of aid for investment projects in federal scientific institutions." I translate: this $15 million pot is, in fact, the way in which federal scientific institutions can be maintained under the statute of the exception to maintain sufficient funding for them. It might seem perfect if a problem did not appear. Indeed, in this sentence is a parenthesis: "taken on space". Fifteen million more for investment projects in federal scientific institutions, Madam Secretary of State, congratulations! Put on space, it's no longer okay! If you transfer from post to post within your portfolio and go back to where you said you would not save money to reinvest in federal science institutions, it's green cabbage and green cabbage! In other words, it's going to pump somewhere to put back in federal scientific institutions! And next year there will be a problem in space because we will have pumped 15 million, we will do the opposite and everyone will have lost it! Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, my questions are clear. Do you confirm the budgetary exception applied to federal scientific institutions? I do not see any problem in having any clarifications on this matter provided a little later. We are not yet in a period of budgetary adjustment. Do you confirm that this exception will not be made through internal compensation within scientific policy appropriations? Do you confirm that savings will not be made on appropriations related to scientific policy, as you had committed yourself to doing? These are three specific issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Wathelet, as stated in the Government Agreement, in my policy statement and in my policy brief, federal science policy will be reshaped. Indeed, the Science Policy PPS will be removed and replaced by federal scientific institutions that will be upgraded and empowered. We will save money and every euro spent will be optimized, as you point out. The European Space Agency (ESA) Ministerial Conference in Luxembourg was a great success. I was able to make full use of the mandate that the government gave me and the scope for negotiation that it had set out. In concrete terms, this means that Belgium has committed financially to several new ESA programmes. All ESA programmes for which Belgium has made a financial commitment will soon be implemented. No savings will be made on the commitment appropriations provided for participation in ESA programmes. However, I have asked my administration, in anticipation of budgetary control, to make a new estimate of the liquidation appropriations in order to bring them into line with the actual needs. For us, this is a technical exercise concerning the Belgian financing of ESA, the so-called financing balance. This exercise involves carrying out financial monitoring of ongoing programmes and adjusting the payment rate according to the actual payment requirements identified by ESA. This exercise will have no consequences for Belgian space actors because I am not questioning ESA's financial needs for the implementation of these programmes. Within this government, I continue to defend the interests of science policy. In the next fiscal control, I will do my best to preserve the necessary resources of federal scientific institutions. I cannot give you more details so as not to compromise the proper functioning of the political decision-making process in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. You are persevering in the logic that federal science institutions will be given more autonomy to reduce costs. I can't believe it, but I'm asking to see. It is not correct, even in the opposition, to say before you see that it will be a failure. But the more we centralize services, the more we move towards an economy of scale. But if there is any other way, I ask to see! I understand the difference between the commitment appropriations and the liquidation appropriations. You say that in terms of commitment, nothing will change, but if during the year there was a possibility of less spending on liquidation than what was originally budgeted, what should not be liquidated will then be reassigned to federal scientific institutions. That's what you're telling me. Once again, I ask to see. I'm not going to say in advance that this will not be the case. But I can assure you that if liquidations actually have to be there, my experience tells me that we were often a little late in terms of liquidation, rather than in advance. But it can change, you never know. From time to time, it's more positive. I'd be glad. I won't fail to ask you a question. Once again, I will continue to pay particular attention to it. There is no doubt that in the context of budgetary control, if any liquidation appropriations are reduced to the level of space, you know that you will have to justify yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, Belgium and its partners in the European Space Agency want to develop global competition by offering a high-quality rocket at lower prices. Our country is part of two major projects: Ariane 6 and Vega. The first, in its commercial version, will allow the sending of two satellites for an amount of approximately 120 million euros. The second is for smaller gear sent at lower altitudes. Madam Secretary of State, initially I had tabled a written question, which then came to committee. You can answer me in the main. Still, I wanted to ask you two questions. Can you take stock of these investments and the expected return? In addition to orbital launchers, Belgium has also contributed several tens of millions of euros to other European programmes. Can you give me details of these projects, the amounts of investment and the benefits for the three regions - Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels? Thank you for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u31	At the last ESA Ministerial Council, held in Luxembourg on 2 December, Belgium decided, on the basis of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 27 January 2014, to participate in the development of the new Ariane 6 launcher, in the evolution of the Vega launcher, in the operation of international space stations and in several programmes which were not yet fully funded or which required additional subscriptions. Belgium has made a firm commitment of EUR 238.14 million. Resolutions adopted and financial commitments are reflected in a communiqué to be transmitted to the Council of Ministers in the near future. Then, according to the rule of fair return, enshrined in the ESA Convention, the return on investment will be equal to 1. In fact, Belgian participation in the various programmes, with the exception of operating costs, will be reflected in contracts signed with Belgian actors. According to the OECD, the multiplier effect for the economy will vary between 1.4 and 4.9 in terms of the direct and indirect benefits of public space investment. In addition to these impacts, there are the induced effects of space activity on society as a whole. I am thinking, among other things, of increasing productivity and efficiency in various economic areas, but also in the prevention and management of natural disasters, in weather prevention, etc. These induced effects are of the same magnitude as the sum of direct and indirect effects. It can therefore be said without mistake that 1 euro invested in space research and development generates a return of 6 euros for the economy. These few figures for launchers in which Belgian industrial players participate show the recurrent nature of the activity for the benefit of the Belgian actors involved. For Ariane 5, 77 launches were made and 32 launchers are still in production. For the Soyuz de Kourou, 10 launches were made and 13 launchers are in production. For the Vega, 3 launches made and 13 launchers in production. For the regional return, traditionally, the field of launchers involves industrial actors Walloons and Brussels. Aware of this situation, it has been proposed to offer targeted opportunities to actors in the north of the country, ensuring that specific skills are developed in Flanders in the field of launchers and increasing Belgian participation in programmes such as GSTP, SMI, ARTES and Prodex. In preparation for the next ESA Ministerial Council in 2016, the Space Department will take stock of the situation regarding the regional breakdown of return on investment. Proposals for participation in new programmes will take into account the commitments for launchers to be announced in Luxembourg in order to achieve an overall distribution which is fair within the country, which values and contributes to the development of the scientific and technical space present in the federal institutions and in each of the three Communities and Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u32	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensiveness of her answer. I wanted to stress that. Madam Secretary of State, your answer has indeed enabled us to take stock. You indicate that the return on investment is in the order of 1 euro for 6 euros in economy. These numbers are talking. We are all aware that investing in research is still a win-win operation for Belgium. I took this file with my arm-to-body. I will follow with you its evolution. You mentioned a few deadlines, notably the 2016 deadline, but by then I think we will have the opportunity to talk about it again. This issue is important for the different regions and for the economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-10-54-commissie-ic082x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted this morning's agenda. I'm lifting the session.
