ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 1409 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u2	Mr President, Secretary of State, I refer to the VRT programme The Seventh Day of 18 January 2015. In an interview, the Minister of Justice repeated a problem he had raised earlier: sending encrypted messages via computers and smartphones poses problems, especially in the fight against terrorism. The investigators would be of the same opinion. Apparently, they are asking for the possibility of hacking computers and mobile phones in the fight against terrorism. This requires a change of law. The current legislation needs to be evaluated first. In addition to the information provided by the investigators, the Minister of Justice also discussed the idea of asking operators to take specific measures to avoid hacking. That's pretty dual. If no one can hack, then we have the solution. If the government can hack, so can others, in this case criminals. They can intercept confidential public sector information. The Minister of Justice also said that it was desirable to introduce a code of conduct requiring operators to remove hate messages from the network, similar to other directives on pornography, for example. This must be organised not only at Belgian but also at international level. The suggestions made by the Minister of Justice are suggestions on his part with his powers. However, they are also on the verge of your powers. Your policy letter said that you want to pay attention to the delicate balance between a policy of and for the 21st century with updated respect for privacy. You do not believe that privacy should be an argument for suppressing digitalisation initiatives. Is hacking smartphones and computers in the fight against terrorism falling under a 21st-century policy, as you stated in your policy letter? Is there a danger that we will use this as a means of suppressing a digitalisation initiative, in this case the development of software coding? Were you aware of the Minister of Justice's idea? What privacy recommendations would you make about the proposal that was formulated there? Do you agree that if the data can be hacked by the government, there can also be an increased threat to our privacy? Criminals can use the additional possibilities to attack us. Do you consider the potential benefits to be proportionate to the increased risk? Finally, what is your opinion on a code of conduct to remove hate messages from the Internet? In what way do you intend to submit the suggestion to your fellow Members at European level? In what time will you take initiatives here?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u3	Mr Vermeulen, the debate on which weapons should be used to combat terrorism is, of course, delicate and complex. Furthermore, as Secretary of State responsible for the protection of private life, I have the special task of weighing up the relevant national and international rules of law in that discussion. Therefore, without knowledge of concrete proposals and legislative texts and without a thorough analysis and prior consultation with all the actors involved, I should like to confirm or fire one or the other proposal. You have already seen this in a number of other matters: I usually urge consultation to monitor what I believe is my job as Secretary of State for Privacy. What is very clear to me is that, within our democratic rule of law, we must use all valid means to ensure the maximum security of our citizens. At the same time, however, we must ensure that we do not slip into the margins of fundamental rights that we have just deemed necessary to protect everyone's freedom as a result of an earlier global conflict, for example the Second World War. In this case, the problem is specifically related to the fact that criminals are increasingly using other means of communication, instant messaging such as Skype and WhatsApp, communication via dating sites and so on, in order to achieve the same finality, in particular the interception of information that could potentially prevent a terrorist attack or any other criminal act. To achieve that, advanced techniques are needed. When developing a legal framework, the privacy of citizens should also be safeguarded. I am in agreement with the Minister of Justice and I am going tomorrow with the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, and the Secretary of State for Migration, Mr Francken, to the informal European Council in Riga, which will also address radicalisation and the fight against terrorism. In any case, I believe that the fight against inciting hatred, including by spreading hate messages on the Internet, must continue unabated. We do have a legal arsenal for this. We don't always have to change laws or make laws, or extend laws. In Belgium, there are already three laws that underpin the fight against cyberhate: firstly, the anti-racism law, secondly, the anti-discrimination law, and thirdly, the law against negationism. These are three different laws, one to combat racism or xenophobia, the other to prevent discrimination, and then to minimize, deny, justify or approve the genocide committed by the German national-socialist regime during the Second World War. There are also a whole range of initiatives at European level. For example, last year, at the request of the European Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, the European Fundamental Rights Agency set up a task force on crime, in which Belgium is taking the lead on the part that focuses on training models for law enforcement officials to deal with this issue. Specifically with regard to the spread of hatred, via the Internet, a number of things have already been realized by the federal police or by the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. Many sites and internet forums also have codes of conduct that make clear what is tolerated, what actions will be taken against the users of hate messages. This gives the moderators of the websites the freedom to delete information that does not comply with these rules. There is also a lot of self-regulation on many sites. The Internet providers themselves are also aware of the problem because they can be held liable more quickly. For example, a cooperation agreement has been concluded between the federal police and the Internet Service Providers Association, representing 95% of Belgian access providers. In this Protocol, all parties concerned undertake to report content which they consider to be unlawful to the police and to take action at the request of the same police. In general, I would like to make it clear that, for all the initiatives taken by the government, we consult each time on the privacy legislation, that we also ensure that there is no abuse or arbitrary use of certain data or resources, and that we must, above all, ensure that privacy and security are balanced. After all, as has been said a number of times, privacy must not give way to security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. I have also been more active and militant in an earlier life and am aware that privacy is a very important aspect. But my group, and perhaps you too, together with the government, attach great importance to the fight against terrorism and to the security of citizens. I do, of course, see some justice in the question, but we continue to weigh up the policy of security and respect for privacy. It must be balanced. I note that the Minister of Justice's proposal, as expressed in a television programme, has not yet produced more concrete texts and that we should go to finalisation in consultation. I would, however, like to express a number of reservations. I hear in your reply that new or specific laws are not always needed. Nor am I in favour of creating a lot of new laws when there are existing ones in place. But I am in favour of agreeing even more specific rules on those hate messages. In Davos, Prime Minister Michel had contacts with Google. Next month, Deputy Prime Minister Jambon will go to the United States to meet on this matter. You will go to Riga with my fellow Members. I think the problem is well known. I believe that there are a number of other instruments that are likely to be overvalued, such as the opportunities offered by the Inter-federal Equal Opportunities Centre. I believe that there will be too little self-regulation on that side for this important story and that there can still be a higher gear, with other instruments. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u5	Mr Minister, I would like to return to a question that I asked you two weeks ago about the effects of the adapted nationality legislation. That legislation entered into force on 1 January 2013. The acquisition of Belgian nationality was subject to stricter conditions. For example, one must have knowledge of one of the three languages of the country, one must be integrated, have a legal residence, participate economically, and one must not have committed important facts of one's own. The number of procedures was reduced from 12 to 4. The figures we received last year showed that there was a significant reduction in the number of Belgian nationals. I asked you about this two weeks ago. I'm taking them back now because you still wanted to pull some data. Can you now tell me how many foreigners have acquired Belgian nationality on the basis of the adapted legislation? Have there been any acquisition of nationality on the basis of the old regulations? Is it possible to split up according to the methods used to acquire nationality? Can you observe an evolution based on the figures? Are there any bottlenecks that the administration is facing in its application?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u6	Mrs Van Cauter, I will group together the answers to the first three questions to give you an overall picture of the number of nationality acquisitions in 2014. I will not read out all the figures because the frameworks in which they are placed make it impossible for me to do so. You will be able to look at this in writing. My services have contacted the National Register to obtain the figures regarding the number of foreigners who acquired Belgian nationality in 2014 on the basis of both the old and the new nationality law. In addition, your Chamber has given us the figures on the number of naturalisations in 2014. The data we received on 27 January 2015 shows the following for 2014. A) Under the regime of the old provisions of the Belgian nationality code mentioned below, 7 517 persons obtained Belgian nationality, or 991 by declaration of nationality through Article 12a, § 1 to 3, 13 to 15, 16 and 24 of the Act. 3 005 obtained by naturalization, Article 19 of the Law. 3 521 acquired it through a collective effect, Article 12 of the law. The 991 acquired by a declaration of nationality may be further broken down in accordance with Articles 12, 13 to 15, 16 and 24. So you'll get those numbers. B) Under the new provisions of the Nationality Act, 9 968 persons became Belgian in 2014, or 8 103 by declaration of nationality through Articles 12a, 1 to 5 and 24 of the Law, 1 865 by collective effect, Article 12 of the Law. 8 103 can be further broken down in the way you can read. C) The total number of nationals must include the category of foreign nationals who have acquired Belgian nationality on the basis of articles not amended by the new Act, Articles 8, 9, 10, 11 and 11a of the Code, or which have only been formally adapted, in particular the new Article 11 which replaces the old Articles 11 and 11a. In this category 8 253 people have become Belgian. From this overview, therefore, it appears that in 2014 a total of 25 738 foreigners obtained Belgian nationality. As far as your fourth question is concerned, given that both 2013 and 2014 are pivotal years, where nationality acquisitions are still taking place under both the old and the new provisions, the greatest caution is needed to draw certain conclusions or identify bottlenecks regarding the evolution of the figures. The first findings which can nevertheless be made are as follows. First, the number of naturalisations decreased in 2014 to 3 005 files, where 8 168 foreigners were naturalised in 2013. However, it does not have any justification for the new legal provisions, since all naturalisations have been carried out in both years on the basis of the old legal provisions. Secondly, as regards the total number of acquisitions by nationality declarations, the old plus the new law, there is a decrease from 15 325 in 2013, to 9 094 cases in 2014. In 2013, about four fifths of the acquisitions were made by declaration based on the old law and about one fifth on the basis of the new law, while in 2014 only about one tenth of the files were handled according to the old law. Given the conditions of the new law, it is logical that in total fewer acquisitions were made by declaration of nationality in 2014. Third, with regard to the awards by collective effect, Article 12 of the Code, it can be noted that in 2014 there were 4 667 fewer files than in 2013 which led to the granting of Belgian nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u7	Thank you for the answer, Minister. If I get the numbers, I'll check them thoroughly. From your answer, I conclude that no one has so far acquired Belgian nationality through the new law on naturalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u8	We're gonna have to take a closer look at that. That is indeed what I am distracting from at first sight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u9	Mr. Chair, Minister, a November 2014 news article reports an imminent discussion within the government about the allowances paid to inmates. A number of them receive allocations of several kinds, for an amount of approximately €4 million for 2013. In most cases, these are disability benefits as a result of an accident at work. That a person receives an allowance of any kind is something I'm not going back to. On the other hand, the fact that these allowances continue to be paid once people have been sentenced and deprived of their liberty appeals to me. Indeed, to be deprived of liberty, one must violate the law and commit a serious act. In addition, some inmates receive these allowances and do not even pay a share to their victim(s). Minister, can you tell me why the imprisonment of a person does not rhyme with the cessation of the payment of allowances, if there are cases where the removal of allowances is possible? Can you also tell me why inmates do not pay a share to their victim(s)? Finally, is there any discussion on this subject, in consultation with your colleague from Social Affairs, already being carried out with a view to reform in this area? More generally, what would be the main thrust of this possible reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, the detention of the holder of an allowance following an accident at work does not affect the person's right to that allowance or his payment. As a result, workers' compensation continues to be paid to their successor while in detention. The Workers' Compensation Act falls under the jurisdiction of a department other than the Department of Justice. Justice enforces existing regulations. In the context of restorative justice, the prison administration encourages convicted prisoners to compensate victims, if only through symbolic payments. Similarly, the conditions for early release often include an obligation to compensate victims. These are voluntary and individual approaches. There is no legal basis for requiring a detainee to compensate a victim, obviously outside of the application of the provisions of the Civil Code with regard to the enforcement of obligations. This applies not only to the allowances and allowances that an inmate receives, but to all of his or her income. With regard to your last question, I refer to the government agreement which states that the government will examine and adapt the consistency of the system of payment of social benefits to prisoners during the period of their incarceration. I shall proceed with this examination with my colleague in Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u11	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. As far as labour law is concerned, the aim is obviously not to withdraw any compensation from the person but to be able to contribute to the compensation of victims when they are in prison. I am pleased that you are making contact with your colleague, the Minister of Social Affairs, and that the issue is evolving. I'll come back to the subject after giving you time to work on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u12	Minister, I asked Minister Borsus this question first, but he referred me to you. Since the crisis, we have broken again year after year the record of the number of bankruptcies per year. In 2014, 11 294 companies went over the top. Often the failure of a company is not due to the lack of creativity or commitment of the entrepreneur. It has not been economically easy in recent years to keep a company open. Now that the light is coming to the end of the crisis tunnel, it is important that all those entrepreneurs, who went down in good faith, can start again with a clean slate. For this, the possibility of a change, especially for small companies set up with unlimited liability, is very important. When the change is made, the debts can no longer be enforced and own funds can no longer be used to repay the debts. Until so long, it's actually impossible to start a new business. It is therefore also important that the bankruptcy proceedings can be dealt with quickly and correctly, so that anyone who is entitled to change can also rely on them. The European Commission recognises this need. She called for non-fraudulent bankruptcies to be dealt with within a year. The deadlines for handling vary enormously within the EU, from 4 months to 9 years. Minister, how long does it take, on average, in our country to deal with non-fraudulous bankruptcies? Should a great deal of effort be made to reach the one-year deadline to complete bankruptcies? At the end of the bankruptcy proceedings, discharge has been granted automatically for several years if there is no fraud. How often is change refused? Cleaning can also be requested by the entrepreneur after six months after the bankruptcy. Is this rule sufficiently known to the entrepreneurs? Is changing often applied for early?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u13	As regards your first, third and fourth questions, I must inform you that it was not possible for my services to make precise figures available within the time limit for the oral question. You can ask questions again later, or submit them in writing. As far as your second question is concerned, bankruptcies affecting a natural person as a trader are the only ones eligible for a change. They are often very modest in size. Consequently, it is unlikely that this type of bankruptcy would often take longer than a year. Of course, complications are always possible, such as processes to be carried out or other sources of delay. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 35 of the bankruptcy law, the court commissioner is specifically responsible for overseeing the management and liquidation of a bankruptcy. Moreover, in accordance with Article 73 of the same law, where it is established that the assets will be insufficient to cover management and liquidation costs, the court may, at the request of the liquidator or even of its own motion, declare the immediate closure of the bankruptcy. We note that a rapid resolution of the bankruptcy operations is a requirement that the legislator has not escaped, and that it is therefore desirable that this should be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can understand why you cannot answer the first questions immediately. I will indeed submit them in writing. However, I would like to stress that it would be a good thing for entrepreneurs who act in good faith and go bankrupt because of the economic situation or because of the fact that a competitor is located close to the door to be replaced quickly, so that they can start again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u15	Minister, I am not really a shopper myself or a real bargain hunter, but as a result of the bargain period, a number of things are always happening. First of all, there are many people going to the shops, but second, there are also many people going there with bad intentions, shoplifters in particular. That phenomenon is not new, it occurs every year. Last year we also knew this: through the various media we were told that there is an increased risk of shoplifting every time solders. It was then found that the thieves were becoming more resourceful, with transmitters to disable electrical anti-theft gates, self-designed pliers to pry off safety clamps and the like. It is therefore a good thing that traders take their own initiative in the first place and make greater use of security. About two weeks ago, there was a reportage of Telefacts on VTM, which showed that traders would use up to 30% more security agents in the bargain period. It also showed that the total cost of thefts for traders was hallucinating: no less than EUR 1 billion would be lost. Two thirds of this amount would arise from the loss of goods, a third goes to the cost of security itself. Surveillance agents are mainly found in larger shopping centres and in larger commercial areas in larger city centres, but smaller SMEs do not always have the means to pay for self-security. This group will be more easily targeted by thieves. The impact on such SMEs is therefore fairly high both financially and morally. Of course, everyone has to try to take up their ultimate responsibility and secure their own goods, but we also think that the government should make sufficient efforts to deal with this retail crime. It is good that the government agreement explicitly states that efforts will be made to set up specific chambers in each district to enable the rapid judicial procedure for simple crimes and that this would continue. At present, the use of the existing fast-track law is relatively limited. According to my records, it's about 436 shoplifting suspects who were subpoenaed through quick justice. Both the National Syndicate for Self-employed and Unizo find quick justice an efficient form of punishment for shoplifters. Therefore, the NSZ has asked you via the media to urge all judicial arrondissements and prosecutors to bring shoplifters, regardless of the value of the stolen property, before the express court. I have two questions about that. Firstly, do you believe that the NSZ's call to speed up the work of more high-speed courts is a valid question? If so, what initiatives will you take to meet this demand? Secondly, what will you do with parquets such as Turnhout's, which has already indicated that you do not feel anything for the system of high-speed courts? Is there no danger of a two-speed system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u16	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, Article 76 (2), first paragraph of the Court's Rules of Procedure provides that one or more chambers shall be responsible, inter alia, for the procedures of immediate appearance and summoning of minutes. Those chambers have been provided for this legal provision since the Law of 28 March 2000 amending the judicial organisation as a result of the introduction of an immediate appearance procedure. The term Quick Law is used for the summoning of minutes in Article 216c of the Code of Criminal Procedure, not for the immediate appearance (Article 216quinquies, to a large extent cancelled by the Constitutional Court). Firstly, the coalition agreement and the policy statement state that the efforts to set up specific chambers in each district to enable a rapid judicial procedure for simple crimes will continue. The practice varies between the prosecutors or even the departments, depending on the priorities of persecution set by each prosecutor of the King in relation to local crime, the capacity of the police, the organisation of the courts of first instance by each chairman and the extent of the local frameworks of magistrates, clerks and prosecutors influencing the capacity to prosecute and serve. This point of the policy statement should therefore be raised in the general context of the discussions on autonomous management. Secondly, the period of time envisaged to answer an oral question is too short for a national survey of all the State's public prosecutors. The nature of the reaction is determined according to different criteria, including the extent of the disadvantage (this is up to a certain amount), the contests of the perpetrator, the indications of gang formation (circulating offenders group), the use of force, the use of tools to facilitate theft, the extent to which the victim was compensated or the goods were taken back, the absence or limited number of previous criminal offences of a similar nature by the perpetrator (is he a polyplayer?), the suspicion of a financial, social or other problem, e.g. addiction, kleptomania, a permanent or non-permanent residence in the country and other elements specific to the case. Depending on those criteria and legal conditions, the decision to dismiss, municipal administrative sanction, amicable settlement, mediation in criminal matters, direct subpoena, subpoena in quick-paced or judicial investigation was given. As mentioned earlier, these criteria vary from parquet to parquet and even from department to department. For example, within the Antwerp department, two rapid court sessions are held each month. In addition to the above mentioned shoplifters are also included in the fast-track procedure: facts of success of agents and rebellion. Following a previous parliamentary question on the handling of shoplifting in fast-track law, the Turnhout department has indeed communicated that it does not deal with the matter in quick-track law, but does aim to achieve maximum results within a reasonable period of time. According to this section, focusing only on the right to speed would lead to false conclusions. It seems better to open up the demand for total handling and then look at the time span within which the result is to take place. In the Turnhout department there is a virtually zero tolerance policy on shoplifting. Almost every file of an identified shoplifter against which sufficient evidence can be brought will be subject to judicial action. The speed of decision is also remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u17	Minister, I am aware of the differences between cantons and practices which also differ due to local conditions, capacity and autonomous management. However, my concern is not only with the judicial system, but also with the victims. In my introduction, I made it clear that the problem of shoplifting is huge, not only economically but also socially. Lick-up policy with fast-track law is, of course, a solution. I see that in the arrondissements where the system is in force, the first figures relating to shoplifting are very positive. They're only quarterly figures, so we have to be careful in that, but they're hopeful anyway. I call for the best possible support for the calls of Unizo and NSZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u18	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, at the end of the previous Parliament, we voted for the recognition of co-parenthood for children from same-sex couples. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2015. However, it has come back to me that some communes are not yet up to date. When women come to recognize the child already born, either officials are not aware of it, or they say that there is no suitable form for the situation. They therefore find it difficult to have their rights recognized because some municipalities send them home and tell them to come back when this is ready. Minister, has there been any training for public servants? Has the adjustment of the forms been considered? This is an important additional right for these women and for the security of the child's status. Could a press campaign be organized so that all mothers know that this right is recognized to them today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u19	Mrs Lalieux, on 22 December 2014 I adopted a circular on the new legislation on comaternity by supplementing the one on the name which was published in the Belgian Monitor of 29 December 2014. This circular, which takes into account the law of reparation of 18 December 2014, was transmitted to all officers of the civil state of the kingdom via the public prosecutors. Specific training has not been organised for civil-status officers and does not prove necessary, since the new provisions on comaternity are mutatis mutandis similar to those on the establishment of filiation for heterosexual couples. As for the adaptation of the forms, I would like to remind you that the law of 5 May 2014 was published on 7 July 2014 in the Belgian Monitor and that the date of entry into force of 1 January 2015 was already known since that time. As a result, municipalities and computer software providers had six months to take the necessary minimum measures. These changes are limited to adapting the existing models of birth certificate and recognition by replacing the reference to the father with a reference to the co-parent. Finally, a notice was published on 23 December 2014 on the FPS Justice website drawing attention to the entry into force on 1 January 2015 of the law on comaternity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u20	Minister, thank you for that specific answer. Apparently, everything has been done, but as laws change a lot, not all civil servants are aware of it. Perhaps the Attorneys General did not transmit the information? They may need to be asked to return a reminder circular. It should also be checked whether there are any other complaints regarding the adjustment of the form. For the City of Brussels, it is in order but I do not know whether all the communes in the Kingdom have suitable forms. This is important because this right that we give to these women must be effective in all municipalities. The FPS Justice should send information by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the Court of Justice in Brussels has recently been evacuated following a bomb alert. This is the second time since the events in Verviers. While measures are needed to ensure the security of the Palais de Justice and the security of those who frequent it, the measures adopted do not seem to be the most effective and are mainly conducive to disruption of the hearings. It was decided to place at the entrance of the Palace a control of objects by means of a scanner and a control of persons through the passage of a portico. However, the lines quickly lay down and some had to wait for three hours before they could return to the Palais de Justice. The justice staff is therefore, we can understand, irritated, angry but also concerned. Indeed, the amateurism of the controls carried out and the insufficient number of officers assigned to this mission increase the sense of insecurity and impotence of the security forces to guarantee their safety. Judicial personnel and persons wishing to participate in public hearings must be able to be monitored promptly. If the system is not organized and adapted to the high level of attendance at this place of justice, there is a great risk of a total blockage. But you know how complicated the functioning of the Brussels Courthouse is. If the threat is so high and the organisation of the security of the premises is not possible at short notice, the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance considers that it would be better then to close the Palais de Justice for the time necessary for the verification of the premises. If there is a bomb alert, the Palace is closed; you search everything and then you reopen to ensure proper functioning. Minister, how have the controls at the Brussels Courthouse been organised? How many officers were assigned to exercise this control? How did you identify the threat? I know that these matters also fall within the competence of your colleague from the interior, but I am asking you as the head of the courthouses. How can we explain that commercial, labour and civil courts have not been protected? Are additional security officers provided for surveillance around scanners and portals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, security in the premises of Justice is obviously a priority, but I would like to point out that there is indeed a security policy for the palaces, which is based on the following idea. The concept within and around the Justice buildings will, on the basis of an ongoing risk analysis, increasingly be based on the integration of three fundamental elements, namely, the organisation, configuration of the building and electronic equipment, each of which is adapted to a judicious level commensurate with the risks. Meanwhile the events of Verviers have occurred and the level of threat has been raised to 3. The security measures currently in place in many courthouses are therefore adapted to the current exceptional situation at level 3 of the threat and consist mainly of the increased deployment of police services and, even in some places, of military personnel. These measures will be assessed once the MACO has decided to review the level of the threat downwards. The situation in Brussels as well as in the Palais de Justice are specific, due to the presence of the Federal Prosecutor's Office and the high concentration of cases of terrorism; suspects in these cases are brought before the Chamber of Counsel and the Chamber of Indictments in Brussels, therefore in the Palais de Justice. The same situation arises in any substantive trials. The presence of a scanning portal in Brussels is therefore justified in any case. For the Poelaert site as a whole, the necessary additional measures were examined for each building, depending also on the means and staff available. As a result of the increased level of threat, a number of new measures have been taken. It is true that they caused delays on the first day at the Palais de Justice, but this is only normal when implementing important new measures. Most of the persons concerned have therefore shown understanding, given the exceptional nature of the situation. Most of the problems also lasted only one day. Following the effective intervention of all parties concerned, the situation was already normalized on the second day. This means that judges and staff have a reserved entrance where their identity is verified and that there is also the scanning portal where, next to the normal visitor waiting girl, a priority queue is reserved for lawyers. The waiting time for this second group usually oscillates around 10 to 20 minutes, which I believe is acceptable. So things are going right. I am aware of the personnel problems in the security forces and we are currently working on a structural solution through, among other things, social consultation. All parties will be involved in the process in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the question was tabled just after the articles were published in the press and that was very messy. Not only is there a backlog of cases, but if judges, lawyers and magistrates can no longer access the palace for a day to practice their profession properly, it becomes very difficult for the saga of the Palais de Justice in Brussels! If, for me, security in our places is necessary, we need the means to do so. Indeed, a queue in front of a courthouse may also lead to some confusion and violence or problems in the line. Security, yes, but the means must be put in place, not only technical but also in relation to the security forces that need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u24	Minister, in a democratic system, public administration is one of the most important pillars. It is understandable that there are restrictions in this area. Anything that concerns the security of the State and its citizens at the moment is kept secret for everyone's sake. However, information from the distant past with little or no relevance to the activities cannot be made public today. In its 2011 Annual Report, the Committee calls for a new regime to be introduced in the classification of State Security Archives. These documents have so far been kept at the headquarters in Brussels and not in the General National Archives. One of the reasons why the State Security Archives can be protected in this way is the status of "classified debt instrument', which is given to certain documents. Documents that are classified are state secret and therefore not public. The solution, as suggested by the Committee I, could be to set an end date for the classification at all times. If this would not be renewed and the deadline has expired, the document will automatically become public. Mr Minister, first of all, what arguments are there today for not handing over large parts of the State Security Archives to the State Archives? Secondly, are you prepared to review the classification law and, in particular, to draw up regulations on classification, so that a large part of the archives can be accessed for citizens or for scientific research? Thirdly, how long can we expect a solution on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u25	Mr Van Hecke, the archives of the Security of the State concern files compiled by the intelligence and security services in the performance of their duties, namely intelligence and security investigations. For intelligence-related files, it is important to know that intelligence-related work does not only have a short- and medium-term perspective but also a long-term perspective. For example, it is common practice to use files that are over 30 years of age on matters that affect counter-espionage, the protection of economic and scientific potential, extremism and religious fundamentalism. To this end, the preservation and protection of the archives in question is necessary for a sufficiently long period to allow the security of the State to comply with its legal obligations. In addition, it should be noted that the necessary protection of state security agents and their human resources, as well as their families, does not allow the simple disclosure of those archives. With regard to the safety investigation files, I can state that there is a legal obligation to destroy them when they are no longer of any use. Consequently, disclosure of this information is not at issue. Finally, the wish of the General National Archives to declassify and make public the archives of Belgian institutions and even to have them scanned in low-wage cost countries is not in line with the need for secrecy required in the proper performance of the tasks of the State Security and is not in conformity with the classification law. With regard to your second question, a revision of the classification law, as recommended by the 2011 Committee I annual report, this will be looked at from a broader perspective. In connection with your third question, the archives of the Security of the State were transferred to the General National Archives for the years 1830 to 1910. The files relating to the Second World War were issued to the Study and Documentation Centre for War and Contemporary Society from the 1990s. In this respect, the State's security is ahead of the equivalent services at European level. For the period from 1948 to now, the forces were combined with researchers to conduct searches in specific files, without endangering the proper performance of the tasks entrusted to the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u26	Minister, I understand that it is of course very delicate, but, as you yourself say, the archives from 1830 to 1910 have been transferred to the National Archives. Of course, something is not meant to be made public if there is still a relevance today or if there are still persons who can be identified, for example, who are still active today in the security of the State. The Committee I's recommendation is, of course, very interesting. You say you'll look at it and work on it. However, a decision must be taken on the classification, for example after a certain period of time, after which the documents will be passed on to the archives for disclosure, unless a new decision to preserve confidentiality is taken. That can be a useful exercise, because of course part of our history is contained in it. I refer, for example, to the period of the Cold War; scientific research on that period can also be useful. In this sense, it is important that the Committee's recommendation I is taken up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u27	Minister, many reports have already been published in the press and questions have already been asked about very specific problems in certain courts and courts that are faced with a serious shortage of staff. A number of vacancies would not be filled, young start-ups would opt more often for the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the opposite was the case in the past: they chose the seat and the Public Prosecutor's Office often had difficulty recruiting staff, but now it is reversed. As a result, several rooms have to close in courts and courts. I only received the figures this morning on the situation in East Flanders, and that is quite dramatic. In East Flanders there would be 16 vacancies at the three courts in Ghent, Dendermonde and Oudenaarde and two long-term sick. The worst is in Dendermonde, with seven vacancies and two long-term sick. The result is that many rooms are closed. In the court in Ghent, for example, the first civil chamber, the second civil chamber and the twelfth civil chamber go from two to one hearing a week. From 5 January the fifth and sixth bourgeois chambers were also halved. Two rooms are closed. A seventh civil court for tax civil disputes and the thirty-first for correcting tax matters are simply closed. The fourth bourgeois chamber goes from a collegiate chamber to one magistrate. This but as an example, to show that the impact on that one court is very large. Firstly, Minister, how many chambers within the various courts and courts in the country have been closed for the last two years? Information can be obtained by arrondissement, court or court, court of appeal and labour court. How many were the result of a shortage of staff? Secondly, how many vacancies are currently not filled in at all peace courts, courts and courts? The data is also available by arrondissement and by court or court. Thirdly, has this led to less specialisation within the courts and courts? When we made the exercise to bring about a reform of the judicial landscape, it was also intended to get more and more specialization. Now we see that rooms need to be closed and underneath are tax, civil and criminal matters, but also building rooms, I have heard. In this way, specialization is likely to be undermined. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u28	Mr Van Hecke, the timetable of courts and courts is laid down by special regulations. The establishment of the chambers is part of the internal organisation and local policy of the competent Superior. I note that the overall implementation of the frameworks at courts and courts is 95 percent higher than in the public prosecutor's office, 90% overall. Consequently, I cannot confirm that the appeal of the prosecution on this basis would be higher than that of courts and tribunals. As regards the figures requested, the courts of appeal have a framework of 267 magistrates and were employed on 1 January 252. The courts of first instance have a framework of 763 magistrates. There were 724 employees on 1 January. The peace courts have a framework of 187 peace judges. On January 1st, 171 were employed. The need for specialization naturally depends on the nature of the case, dealt with by the different jurisdictions, and is also influenced by various socio-economic and demographic factors. However, I have noted in my contacts with the judicial authorities that, in these times of reflection on the optimisation of staff deployment, they are just thinking about strengthening specialisation either through concentration of certain matters in a department (in this case I refer to the case-sharing rules) or through the mobile deployment of magistrates within the jurisdiction. Consequently, I do not see any tendency to weaken specialisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u29	Mr Minister, it is also a pity that I only received the figures for East Flanders today and did not be able to integrate them into the question, because they really are interacting. You give the global figures, with about 95% of the boxes being filled in. The first question we need to ask is: are these normal frameworks, or are they even judges at the top of the boxes? If we only take the frameworks into account, but not those in excess, we naturally have other figures. With regard to East Flanders, and more specifically Dendermonde, with 7 vacancies and 2 long-term sick, this means that magistrates have to be transferred from Ghent to Dendermonde and that up to 7 rooms are closed or only one instead of twice. That's gonna be very dramatic. The Minister says that 95% of the framework has been completed, but this is not seen in the field and is faced with serious problems. I really think that this should be kept very closely in mind because the situation in East Flanders will become unsustainable in the short term if more rooms are to be closed. This has a major impact on the motivation of many magistrates, who are hardworking and supermotivated day in and day out. However, it cannot last for a long time. So you must follow it very closely and you must intervene, if necessary. And it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u30	I follow the situation in East Flanders very closely. I will see today the realm of the seat of West- and East-Flanders. As far as the court of first instance of Ghent is concerned, a number of vacancies were not filled there last year. I have promised that the talks with the Treasury inspection are in progress and that I will reopen all the vacancies that were not filled out last year, out of my mind. That process is currently under way. In this sense, we certainly respond to the acute need you describe before the court of first instance in East Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u31	Mr Minister, it was originally a written question that could not be answered earlier. I have to put them orally. Our prisons today are almost all equipped with extensive camera surveillance systems. These images are primarily used to monitor and monitor prisons. Following incidents in prison, these sometimes contain useful information for the disciplinary procedure that may follow from an incident. However, it appears that the prison director refuses to give the prisoner and his lawyer access to the images that can give more clarity, even if the prisoner is punished in response to the incident. I have a few very specific questions about this. Firstly, do you have any knowledge of disciplinary proceedings which deny certain parties access to the images of the incident? It could also be a penitentiary officer or prisoner. Secondly, on what basis can the prison directors refuse to allow images to be seen? What are the criteria for allowing or not allowing questions? In other words, ask from the lawyer, the inmate or possibly the penitentiary officer. Thirdly, do you intend to clarify the ambiguity that exists around this for prison directors and detainees and what steps will you take to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u32	Mr Van Hecke, it is true that the question concerning the use of camera images has already been raised both in the context of disciplinary proceedings against a staff member and against a prisoner. The rules applicable in these cases are the result of the application of the Law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras for the purposes specified therein. (A) The staff member, the monitoring of staff, shall not be included as such in the purposes of the placement of the camera dynamometers. Where a disfunction of the staff is established, the following should be done: in the case of a criminal offence in the criminal sense of the word, Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure applies, in which the official who has knowledge of a crime is obliged to inform the judicial authorities. In this context, the images must be sent to the judicial authorities. As the criminal case has to be dealt with in the current state of the law before the disciplinary case, it is necessary to await the outcome of the criminal proceedings in order to use, where appropriate, the images of the judicial file in the disciplinary proceedings. If, on the other hand, the conduct does not constitute a criminal offence, there is no reason to cite the facts in the context of the proceedings in view of the purpose of the use of the cameras which does not allow the control of the personnel. The cameras can only be used to control staff within the framework of the privacy protection law and thus through a statement to the Commission for the Protection of the Personal Life. B) With regard to the term inmate, the principles of application are the same, with the reservation that in that context the criminal case should not be dealt with in the disciplinary case. Management should be informed that in any event, the persons concerned should be able to consult any document put forward in the course of disciplinary proceedings. However, it should be stressed that the controller must take precautions, including the protection of third parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u33	Minister, I understand that if there is a criminal consequence that is easier and that it is a piece of criminal records that is available. However, many cases giving rise to disciplinary sanctions against detainees will not have criminal consequences. A disciplinary sanction pronounced to the detriment of a detainee can, of course, have other consequences. She enters the file and can have an impact on the advice that the prison director will give later, for example in the context of conditional release. In that sense, these elements can therefore be important, especially if the word is against the word. So I think it is a pity that we do not have the opportunity to use images in these cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u34	There was some commotion about the coverage of the 23 new analysts for State Security. I didn't understand it very well at first either. What was in the paper was already said in the joint committee. You then stated that 23 additional analysts would be recruited from the Close Protection service. The personal security assignment will be transferred to the federal police. In this way, 23 inspectors can be transformed into analysts, although they are not initially trained for this purpose. According to the trade unions, it's not obvious to just retrain those employees. It's gonna take a year to adjust. Moreover, the framework has not been completed today in the State Security Office. In the near future, employees will have to be replaced who will soon retire. At what time can the twenty-three analysts actually be involved in the analysis work? What training courses do they still have to take? How long will the training take? Does it require an amendment to the statute? If so, what does that mean for the staff? What is the budgetary impact of this? To what extent has the framework been completed today? I understand it's not always easy to give the brutal figures. Perhaps you can express it as a percentage. What percentage of the framework has not been filled in? It is reported that 60 to 100 full-time equivalents have not been filled in. Do those numbers make sense? Will you take the initiative to complete the framework? If so, at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u35	The intelligence work of the State Security is a complex set of various functions and tasks. It is far too simple to translate this as merely operational work and analytical work carried out by the external services or the analysis services of the intelligence service. One of the functions is the so-called operational analysis. This task is at the intersection between the operational and the analysis work. It is intended that the 23 inspectors of the State Security Protection Service, who are released as a result of the transfer of the personal protection mission to the federal police, will be used for the operational analysis work of the service, in particular at the county posts of the State Security Office, where there is a significant lack of research capacity. The basic formation of the State Safety Inspector consists of a very extensive set of training courses. During an internship of two years one is trained in the various functions and tasks specific to the intelligence work. As a result, the 23 inspectors, who will be transferred to the intelligence service, will be immediately available at the provincial posts, because they have already received this training. Only a short recycling will be organised to remind inspectors of the details of the job. This does not require any amendment to the staff regulations of the inspectors concerned. With regard to your fourth question, as with the entire federal administration, the instrument of personnel frameworks is not used in the security of the State. It examines the specific needs of the service, taking into account the legally defined tasks and bearing in mind the priorities set by the government. The fight against terrorism and radicalisation is the top priority in intelligence. At present, we can decide that there are certain deficits in the security of the State. For example, there is a lack of expertise for a whole range of functions, firstly, informant managers and researchers terrorism and radicalisation, mainly for the county posts and for the so-called local task forces, secondly, observation agents, third, strategic analysts Middle East; fourth, translators of foreign languages, fifth, BIM lawyers and there are still others. With regard to your fifth question, like the Minister of the Interior, I am negotiating in the government for a budget for the security sector, including for the security of the state. I cannot give you any details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u36	Minister, we now know a little more than last week after the meeting of the joint committee, because the impression arose that the 23 employees would in future strengthen the analysis services, but they will thus be involved in the provincial outdoor services. That's different information, isn't it? I also note that there seems to be no need for new training, except for a short recycling. However, you also point out that there is indeed a lack of a number of crucial functions, which will require additional recruitment. Despite the savings made, choices will have to be made and certain services will have to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 1644 by Mrs Sarah Smeyers has been postponed and Question No 6 by Mrs Smeyers 1646 by Mrs Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u38	Mr President, Minister, in the Twentieth Activity Report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF) for 2013, on page 71, we read: "In 2013, CTIF transmitted 25 cases to the judicial authorities due to the existence of serious terrorist financing indices, for a total amount of €2.57 million. Although the number of cases transmitted and the amounts transmitted are increasing in 2013, the share of terrorist financing in the crimes identified by CTIF in 2013 remains relatively limited, as it stands at 2.14% of the total number of cases." In the light of the figures presented, the ability of CTIF to combat terrorism effectively can be questioned. Minister, is the fight against terrorism really one of the priorities of CTIF? How many people are currently working on this specific crime? Do you consider that CTIF has sufficient resources to carry out all of its missions? Do you already have figures for 2014 for this specific crime, including the number and type of cases dealt with in relation to the financing of terrorism? What about the judicial follow-up of these cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u39	My colleague, I can confirm to you that the fight against terrorism, and in particular its financing, is one of the priorities of the CTIF on a daily basis. With respect to your second question, the CTIF's team of analysts and assistant analysts is currently composed of about 30 people. I cannot tell you who is dealing with the aspect of the financing of terrorism. Some are specialized in the subject matter and others provide support in the light of developments in the situation. As far as your third question is concerned, at this stage the CTIF considers that it has sufficient human resources. Let me turn to your fourth question. Over the past five years, CTIF has transmitted 122 cases to the judicial authorities relating to terrorism and its financing for a total amount of EUR 35.15 million. In 2014, there were 36 cases submitted, an increase of more than 40% over the previous year, for a total amount of €9.2 million. I have the numbers of the different years you can read about. As for your last question, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office systematically monitors the files transmitted by the CTIF. This does not mean that there is necessarily a prosecution for terrorist financing, but information is systematically taken into account by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office for which terrorist financing is also a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u40	Minister, I am pleased that this is indeed a priority for CTIF. I am surprised that with 30 people, CTIF believes it can cover all aspects related to the processing of financial information related to crime. I note with you the 40 per cent increase in the number of cases involving terrorism in a year. From a financial point of view, this is much more important as the amount has almost quadrupled compared to the previous year. Mr.Minister, I will not fail to ask you about these issues at a later stage, as this is probably a better follow-up from the services, but also an increase in this crime and an additional concern. With nearly 10 million euros, we can imagine what the consequences can be for the financing of terrorism. Unfortunately, with little money, there is much damage to terrorism. Thank you, Minister, for following this matter carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u41	Mr President, Minister, there is a great deal of work to be done on the organisation of justice, and I therefore encourage the renewal operations. However, the aim of the renewal must be the efficiency of justice and bring justice into the 21st century. The Law of 1 December 2013 on reform of the judicial districts therefore promised to organise justice more efficiently, to improve services and to strengthen citizens' confidence in its operation, without questioning the proximity of justice. The latter is crucial to help citizens as well and as quickly as possible with as few thresholds as possible. The reorganisation that is now announced for the West Flanders arrondissement goes directly against that last condition. The department of Veurne in the judicial district of West Flanders would be abolished. Thousands of citizens in the Westhoek now have to go to the other side of the province for many things. This is clearly contrary to the guarantees given. It does not seem to me to be a reform of efficiency but a cover-up saving operation on the citizens' hood. The city council of Veurne is very constructive and has asked in a letter to look at other options. For example, they propose new buildings available from 2018 and whose operating costs would be significantly lower. This would not only ensure the provision of services to citizens, but would also save a hundred jobs. Minister, I would ask you to consider and consider the request of the city council in Veurne. My specific questions are as follows. Firstly, will you comment on the proposal of the city council? Secondly, is the main problem the major cost of the Veurne building or are there other considerations to close the department? Thirdly, will you discuss further reorganisations with the local authorities with such a great impact? Fourthly, what will happen to more than a hundred employees if the department closes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, thank you for your questions, but at the moment I can only repeat the answer I gave to some of your fellow Members last week. The federal government is facing a difficult task. It is a major challenge to make the necessary savings while maintaining the practical implementation of the core tasks. This means that we need to work more efficiently and start thinking about the use of resources in a new way. As I said last week, I can only say that there are no concrete plans yet, but that what you are quoting is a thinking path that has come from the local magistrate and has recently reached me. It is logical that such ideas should be put on the table and that they should be considered. However, it is far too early to answer your detailed questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which of course does not satisfy me. I believe, however, that it is not so difficult to answer the question of whether you are taking up the proposal of the city council to hold consultations. The question would have come from the magistrate on the spot. I wonder from whom, because everyone is concerned. There's a panic in the courthouse, among the staff. Everyone wonders who that question would come from, I believe. Is the main problem the cost or does the department simply want to close down? That must have come from someone or something. One does not consider closing something if one does not know whether it is due to costs or whether one wants to do it because one simply wants to close it. I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u44	Question No 1737 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u45	Minister, I have already asked a similar written question. I have a number of additional questions. In an ideal world, grandparents have contact with their grandchildren, either because they see them during their contacts with their own children, or because they participate in the educational tasks. The bond between grandchildren and their grandparents is special and close. It is an added value for both sides. However, the relationship may suddenly be compromised in the event of an argument between parents and grandparents, or when parents or grandparents break up or worse, when their son or daughter dies. In such cases, grandparents often lose contact with their grandchildren. Family is the cornerstone of society and rightly so the existing case law was implemented in the Civil Code and thus was given an opportunity for grandparents to turn to the family court to enforce such a right of access. Since the foundation of the family court in 2014, matters relating to rights of access are generally registered under personal contact grandparents and third parties in the application of the civil court. The answer you gave at the time to my written question shows that the statistical project is still in full development. In this we only find out what the number of cases initiated is and what the number of judgments handed down is. To date, the number of rejections or awards has not been kept up to date and grandparents are therefore dependent on the appreciation from court to court. Therefore my next questions: when will the full application of this statistical project be workable? What data is kept in this database? What is the correct content of the project? Will there be a split between personal contact grandparents and contact for third parties? Will the number of grants and/or rejections also be included in the future? Will the duration of the interaction also be recorded in that project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u46	At the moment, the statistical project, which also contains the data of the family courts, is being converted into a more dynamic IT environment. The estimated duration for this conversion is 10 to 12 months. This conversion will be used to make some improvements and to align the project with the other statistical projects running within the seat. However, the arrival of the family court brings with it an additional analysis and development because it concerns new dates. If everything goes according to plan, the courts and departments will have to validate the first available figures by the end of 2015. As soon as this validation is complete, it can be published. The statistical project of the family court is primarily aimed at supporting the functioning of the courts and measuring their workload. This need therefore translates into figures on the number of pending, new and settled cases, as well as qualitative input and output statistics. In addition, the College of Courts and Courts, in particular Statistics and Workload Measurement, also has information on the lead time of files, the number of judgments, decisions, hearings and so on. There is no information on the content of the judgments because this information is not registered by the Registrys in their management application BGC. A split of the current Earth Code B4 personal contact grandparents and third parties is not foreseen. The power to change Earth codes lies with the courts themselves. Any adjustment shall be made on their initiative. For the time being, there is no need for such a subdivision for the courts themselves. Experience has shown that excessive diversity of Earth codes leads to incorrect and unreliable statistics. Therefore, it is appropriate not to split this earth code into personal contact grandparents on the one hand and personal contact third parties on the other. In answer to your fourth question, this is not foreseen at the moment because there was no question. Your fifth question: this type of data is not registered in the application in which the Registrys of the Family Court code the judicial files. This means that no figures can be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u47	Minister, if I understand correctly, the project has been designed to measure the workload rather than to evaluate the substance of the system. You replied completely to my question. But my question departed from the idea that justice at the moment is not uniform as regards the granting or rejection of grandparents' rights of access. There are differences between the judicial districts. Some almost reject it by default, others almost always grant it immediately. Thus, on the one hand, parents who were relieved of parental authority were later given access to the grandchildren for their own children, which is emotionally difficult. On the other hand, grandparents who have vouched for their grandchildren day and night after a fight or death are not granted contact. In view of this great contradiction, we consider it useful to include this in the application, possibly with a view to new legislative work in this area if it appears that the different courts have great differences. We will see what is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic070x.u48	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 1605 by Mrs Willaert, (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1614 by Mrs Van Hoof.
