ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u1	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 329 by Mr Spoorten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u2	Mr President, the same question is also on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u3	Mr Minister, during the discussion of the policy statement and the government agreement, we have already briefly discussed bankruptcy insurance. At that time, I also checked your intentions regarding the change in bankruptcy insurance. I would like to ask you a number of specific questions on this subject today. Unlike employees, self-employed people in difficulty cannot rely on a comprehensive social security system. We now know about bankruptcy insurance, but it only applies in a number of specific cases. The selfemployed person is entitled to a monthly allowance for up to 12 months and figures show that only 1 out of 12 failed self-employed persons can effectively use or use the bankruptcy insurance. I remember when the policy statement was discussed that this system of self-employed insurance is far too little known and it was said that there should also be a little more to the communication itself, in addition to being justified or not with regard to the conditions of the system. Minister, bankruptcy insurance has been in existence since 1997, can you give an overview of how many self-employed people have experienced bankruptcy in the last four years or have had to stop their activity? How many of these self-employed persons have been entitled to bankruptcy insurance in the last four years, with an overview of the figures for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014? Has this number increased since October 2012, when the scheme was changed by the extension to forced cessations? I would also ask those figures to see whether there has been a change in the number of bankruptcy insurances used since the extension of the scheme. The government agreement states that new improvements will be examined insofar as the budgetary option allows, including, as a matter of priority, the extension of bankruptcy insurance to all forced cessations, including for economic reasons. UNIZO argues in favour of the transformation into a bridge insurance scheme with, on the one hand, the self-employed who suffer from bankruptcy or collective debt and, on the other hand, the self-employed who are forced to stop their activity due to external reasons other than medical reasons. What initiatives will you take to extend bankruptcy insurance? Will you transform this bankruptcy insurance into a bridge insurance scheme, as proposed by UNIZO, among others, and as has already been mentioned here in the discussion of the policy statement? In my introduction, I said that only a very small percentage of the self-employed make use of the possibility of bankruptcy insurance. However, contact with the social insurance funds shows that very little information is passed on from these social insurance funds, or at least on the spot to the self-employed, in order to have access or not to such bankruptcy insurance. What initiatives will you take so that the self-employed get the necessary information, there is clarity in communication and it is not only left to the social insurance funds to decide who receives a letter or communication? How will you make bankruptcy insurance more public to those who are entitled to the benefit? A third set of questions concerns the automatic award, as an additional possibility when the bankruptcy insurance is awarded and when the bankruptcy insurance application is submitted. Would it not be good to grant the automatic linking of the benefit? It is therefore no longer necessary to consider whether another benefit in another scheme is entitled to a claim for bankruptcy insurance only afterwards. Will you examine that proposal for the automatic benefit? What steps will you take to simplify the administrative procedure, at least for the application? What other measures do you take to combat poverty among self-employed people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u4	Ma'am, thank you for this important question. I have some figures for you of the number of bankruptcies, the number of applications and the number of awards per year. My associate will give you the numbers. No figures are available to separate the number of bankruptcy applications from the forced cessations. In several reports, the General Management Committee (ABC) has also advocated a right of bridging in the following three cases: first, bankruptcy insurance, second, insurance in the event of forced termination and, third, insurance in the event of cessation for economic reasons. Bankruptcy insurance has already evolved in 2012. The scope of bankruptcy insurance was extended to self-employed persons who had to stop their activity. The government agreement provides for the extension of this protection to self-employed persons who have to stop their activity for economic reasons, with the objective of giving access to this benefit to those who wish to stop their activity before going bankrupt. An example is an iron dealer who is confronted with the establishment of two Brico... within a five-mile radius, a catering activity in an uninhabitable building or working on the public road that requires temporary cessation and so on. This has yet to be discussed with the ABC. It is true that this number is low, 12%, and I am aware that too few self-employed people use it. However, the figure of 1 failed out of 12 claiming bankruptcy insurance gives a distorted picture. We do not know exactly how many of the bankrupts meet the legal conditions to effectively claim this bankruptcy insurance. Insolvency insurance constitutes a residual right and can therefore only be granted if the selfemployed person no longer has any occupational income and is not entitled to any replacement income. At present, the social insurance funds provide general information to the self-employed and also inform the self-employed at the time of bankruptcy through the curators. That is neither adequate nor optimal. The ABC will present an evaluation report on bankruptcy insurance in the coming weeks. The fact that bankruptcy insurance is currently not very successful will be discussed in detail during the discussions. The idea is interesting, but we need to see whether it is technically feasible. From 1 January 2015, the method of calculating social contributions for the self-employed will be thoroughly adjusted. The social contributions for a given contribution year will then be calculated on the basis of the occupational income of the same year and thus no longer on the income of three years previously. For example, the level of the contribution will better reflect the economic reality of the self-employed. In addition, the Government Agreement provides for a multi-annual Action Plan on Poverty Reduction to be drawn up for all federal areas of competence. The timing for drawing up this plan is not yet known. It will also include concrete measures to combat poverty among self-employed people. I will also address this problem in my orientation paper in which I will propose other measures in addition to the extension of bankruptcy insurance, such as the Commission's reform on Exemption from Contributions, the increase in the minimum pension for single people and the survivor's pension. All the figures are available to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the figures you have provided. I note that, at the moment, you cannot give figures about the forced cessations because they are not used very much and because there is too little information about these cessations. I have also understood from your reply that the ABC Self-employed will carry out an evaluation of that bankruptcy insurance within a few weeks. The necessary recommendations may also be made in accordance with a possible switch to a bridge insurance scheme. Isn't it true, Minister, that the purpose of the evaluation is also to make a number of recommendations on a possible switch to bridge insurance? I also note that there will be work on an action plan to combat poverty, including the Self-employed. I would like to thank you for your answer, but I would ask you to report on that assessment of bankruptcy insurance by the ABC Self-employed. On the basis of that evaluation and any recommendations it may make, it may then be linked back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u7	A self-employed person may, under certain conditions, pursue a professional activity in the event of incapacity for work and combine the professional income with the sickness benefit. The selfemployed person may pursue a professional activity other than that previously for the purpose of full probation if the selfemployed person is authorized to do so by the medical adviser. The selfemployed person may also gradually resume his previous professional activity for the purpose of full probation and with the prior agreement of the medical consultant. Finally, a selfemployed person may also resume his former professional activity if there is no objective of full probation. However, admission must be obtained during the primary incapacity by the medical adviser and during the period of invalidity by the Medical Invalidity Board. The Management Committee for Self-employed Benefits Insurance proposes to transform the current system into a dual system with a distinction between, on the one hand, the authorised activity for the purposes of full reintegration and, on the other hand, the authorised activity without full reintegration. In doing so, the prior authorisation shall be retained. Mr Minister, have you already taken note of the proposal from the Management Committee for Self-Employed Benefits Insurance? Do you see anything in that proposal? Will you further examine the proposal to amend the regulation? What steps will you or will you not take to develop this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u8	The RIZIV provided me and my colleague from Social Affairs with the proposal of the Management Committee for Benefits Insurance for Self-employed Persons. The design of royal decree now follows the legislative trail. The Finance Inspector has already given an opinion on the draft. It is now with the Minister for the Budget, to whom it was submitted for agreement. So you still need to be patient, but it's on its way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u9	I understand that you and your colleague from Social Affairs have accepted the proposal on the dual system and that it is only a question of implementation. (The Minister nodded)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u10	Mr President, Minister, what small traders and restaurateurs may or may not prepare and sell is regulated by the Royal Decree of 13 June 1984 laying down the conditions for the exercise of the profession of restorer or caterer in small and medium-sized commercial and craft enterprises. Often it's about small lunch shops selling sandwiches, salads and soup. A problem arises in the ban on the sale of chips or potatoes. That ban was introduced not to compete with the frying or bistros. Conversely, there is no legislation which prevents frying and bistros from selling the preparations of the restaurateurs. More and more often we notice that frying and bistro biscuits do sell sandwiches and light meals such as croque-monsieurs. That is an unintentional distortion in the legislation. As only the restaurateurs are restricted, their competitive position is put under pressure. I have the following questions to ask you, Minister. Can you examine this distortion and see how it can be corrected? The most recent amendment to the Royal Decree dates back to 1995. In 20 years, that industry has changed a lot. Is the time not ripe for an evaluation of this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, the sixth state reform transferred the conditions of access to the profession for professions regulated by the programme law of 10 February 1998, the so-called establishment law, to the regions. I am sorry, but as a result, the regulation for restaurateurs and caterer bankers is also the responsibility of my colleagues in the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u12	In these circumstances, Minister, I have little to add. I will forward my question to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u13	Minister, since 5 July 2013, the new Royal Decree of 7 June 2013 has entered into force. This Royal Decree contains nine specific criteria indicating socio-economic dependence or legal subjugation. When more than half of these criteria are met, there is a rebuttable legal presumption that a contract of employment has been concluded between the two parties and that this is not cooperation as self-employed. The KB concerned covers the following sectors: the Joint Committee for upholstery and woodworking, the Joint Committee for Construction, the Joint Committee for Metal, Machinery and Electrical Construction and the Joint Subcommittee for Electrical Installation and Distribution. I have a few questions about this. Have controls been carried out on false self-employment in these sectors since the introduction of the Royal Decree? If so, how many checks were carried out? Can these numbers be split up for the sectors concerned? Are fines imposed on the establishment of false self-employment? If so, how many fines were paid? What's about the proceeds of this? How many of the faked self-employed people who have been treated as a rule with the legislation afterwards? Can you estimate how many controls there will be in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u14	Mr President, it should be pointed out that the requalification of an employment relationship as a salary-earners is part of the competence of the RSZ. The clarifications to be given in relation to the questions referred are, in particular, the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs. As regards the participation of the self-employed system in the fight against the phenomenon of bogus self-employment, the RSVZ's Obligations Service adds together for all sectors of activity its research mainly in the light of the connections, in particular by verifying the statements of affiliation of persons indicating that they are starting their independent activities and continuing their cooperation with their former employer or, in the case of checks, after the connection. Where the investigation carried out by the inspection service makes it possible to bring forward elements which could lead to a requalification of the professional situation, the files shall be delivered to the TADT department of the RSZ, so that the latter may proceed with their regularisation. At present, the RSVZ can collect fines in the context of fictitious or late connections, as defined in Article 17a of Royal Decree No. 33 of 27 July 1966 establishing the social status of selfemployed persons. The situation of a fictitious qualification of the nature of the employment relationship does not fall within the scope of this provision. In parallel with these control activities, the inspection service of the RSVZ participates in the social intelligence and investigation service. This year, the specific cooperation of the SIOD will be pursued to ensure the fight against bogus self-employment, in particular by developing a joint research with the RSZ, which is provided for in the sectoral approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u15	I thank the Minister for the answer. I will put my questions to the other competent minister. For the rest, it seems clear to me that there will be controls and that solutions will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u16	Mr Minister, it seems that false self-employment is a matter of concern to us all and I have already received some answers. Self-employed or fictitious start-ups put great pressure on our social security and on our business model. In your policy paper you write that you will step up the fight against fictitious start-ups. During the explanatory statement we heard that you are thinking in particular of the abuse of the self-employed status in order to obtain a residence permit. Of course, the abuses go far beyond that. Some companies try to circumvent regulations, evade taxes or launder money. Many companies require their employees to work under self-employed status. They therefore do not enjoy the advantages of the self-employed or the protection of the worker. Minister, how do you intend to discover and tackle the abuse of the self-employed status for obtaining a residence permit? Do you think it is a problem for employers to let their employees work as self-employed workers? What additional measures will you take to prevent other forms of false self-employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u17	Mrs Vanheste, I am aware of the problem of the bogus self-employed. It is not normal for some to use the self-employed system to put people to work who are actually wage-earners. The coalition agreement also states that the fight against bogus self-employment will continue and, if necessary, will be strengthened. The previous governments were also aware of the problem. They have taken a number of measures, including the amendment of the Act on the Nature of Industrial Relations in 2012. That law has the advantage of fighting against the mechanism of false self-employment, with no statute being preferred to another. At the Council of Ministers on 5 December 2014, the government adopted an action plan to combat social dumping at the initiative of Bart Tommelein, the Secretary of State responsible for combating social fraud. The Action Plan contains certain measures to combat the phenomenon of false self-employment in the context of cross-border social fraud. It announces that a round table will be organised with the risk sectors, such as the construction sector, the catering sector, the transport sector. In this context, the plan states that the bogus self-employed, often from Eastern or Southern Europe, are actually workers employed on a humane income of a few euros per hour. This is unacceptable in Belgium, and such malicious practices need to be dealt with decisively. Furthermore, the evaluation required by the 2012 Law on the nature of the employment relationship is in the pipeline and will be submitted to the ABC and the NAR for advice. The coalition agreement also includes the fight against fictitious start-ups. In this context, I have asked the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed to propose solutions to prevent illegal affiliation to the social status with the aim of obtaining a residence permit, the so-called AFA procedure. When the RSVZ, in the context of the investigation into fraudulent connection, suspects that this is a case of false self-employment, the RSVZ will hand over the file to its inspection services. It is entrusted with an ad hoc study and the collection of all the elements useful for the precise qualification of the nature of the employment relationship. The substantiated file will then be handed over to the RSZ in order that the files may be regularised by those services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u18	Minister, I am glad to hear that you are of the same opinion as I am. I am also pleased that you will be carrying out proactive investigations because, even if they are obliged to work as self-employed persons, they are also fined in the event of fraud. They'll be victims twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u19	Mr President, Minister, you are familiar with the system of service cheques for maternity aid, which is a framework for better reconciling private life with work and the status of self-employed workers. It's only recently given birth to self-employed mothers to get their housekeeping in order with some extra help. They often have to deal with this much faster than workers because, after giving birth, they have de facto only very short, one or two weeks of real rest in the context of maternity leave. Hence the importance of the free service cheques awarded to self-employed mothers after childbirth. You are entitled to hundreds of five free cheques which are valid for eight months and can therefore be used for eight months after giving birth. For the service cheques you can contact the Social Insurance Fund. However, as a result of the sixth state reform, that part of the competence for service cheques was transferred to the Regions. The Regions are now responsible for the operation and instrument of the service cheques. Of course, the federal government retains competence in the area of insurance and the status of self-employed workers. My question therefore falls within the duality of that arrangement. I have some specific questions. Minister, will you continue to support the measure of awarding hundreds of five free service cheques? Will this measure continue to apply to newly-born self-employed women? Will you consult with the Regions? I assume that there will be a need for cooperation agreement or protocol in order to maintain that measure. Is the budget for this measure provided for by the social status of the self-employed or not? What is your view on the continued existence of this measure in the context of maternity leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, in accordance with the European Directive 2010/41 of 6 July 2010 on the application of the principle of equal treatment between self-employed men and women, which provides for legal provision of maternity benefits for at least 14 weeks, I intend to maintain the system of maternity assistance in view of the fact that it is a system to reduce the short duration of maternity rest provided for by the social status of self-employed persons. Motherhood assistance currently grants hundreds of five service cheques to the self-employed woman who enjoys maternity leave as a self-employed person and resumes a professional activity. Following the sixth state reform, the competence for the system of service cheques was transferred to the Flemish and Walloon Region, the Joint Community Committee of Brussels-Hoofstad and the German-speaking Community on 1 July 2014. However, it provided for a transitional period during which the National Employment Service would continue to be competent on the basis of the principle of continuity until the time when the Region or the German-speaking Community is operationally able to exercise its competence. The current rules are therefore maintained until a region or the German-speaking Community amends them. This has not yet been done. In theory, this transfer of powers does not affect maternity assistance which uses the system of service cheques alone. The system of service cheques does not disappear because of the transfer. However, it is not excluded that the federated entities will decide in the future to amend the rules on service cheques by abolishing them or by linking a separate cost to the service cheques. This would have an impact on maternity assistance. As Minister responsible for the social status of the self-employed, I must necessarily be kept informed of any change. So far my cabinet has not been contacted by a region or the German-speaking Community. I cannot therefore give you any further information on this matter. As far as maternity assistance for self-employed persons is concerned, the social status for 2015 still provides for a budget of EUR 4 134 000 for the social insurance funds that grant the assistance. By comparison, in 2014 the budget was EUR 4 064 400 and in 2013 it was EUR 3 827 000. I think such help is important. Young mothers who are self-employed can thus better adapt their work to their private lives. Moreover, we must not forget that this measure stems from Belgium's obligation to adapt to a European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u21	Minister, I understand that the system will continue to exist for the time being, and I am very pleased with that. I also understand that for any changes made by the Regions in the field of service cheques, a notification must be made to your administration and possible consultation will take place. In any case, according to the social status of the self-employed, it is also included in the 2015 budget. This is important because the budget for the award of service cheques must come from there. I would also like to ask you to give more information about this system, as was the case with bankruptcy insurance. After all, I find that few, as was the case with bankruptcy insurance, use this system. Of all those entitled, mothers who give birth under the social status of the self-employed, only one group uses it because only one group knows it exists. It is not even always reported by the social insurance fund to the mothers concerned. I'm an expert in that field. When I became eligible three years ago, this was not brought to my attention by my social insurance fund for self-employed persons. I notice that there is a great difference in information provision. That service shall not be communicated unequivocally to all entitled persons. In short, there must be more communication and more information must be given to those entitled. That is important for this good system. I hear you think it is a good system and you want to continue to support it. It appears that many self-employed women do not take sufficient rest after giving birth, as opposed to women with different status. De facto, self-employed women take on average only two weeks of childbirth. This system now provides relief, but it is not known enough that it exists. It is a good instrument, so let us communicate massively that it exists and that it can be used. I would like to add that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u22	Mrs. Smaers, congratulations on your expertise in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u23	Mr President, do I ask the questions one after the other or does the Minister first answer the first question and then the second question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u24	The questions are merged, so you can ask the two questions and then follow the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u25	Mr Minister, the figures published by the commercial information company Graydon Belgium, fortunately, show a slight drop in the number of bankruptcies. In 2014, 8.2 % fewer companies went over the top than in 2013. Yet this is no reason to breathe relievedly. 11 294 companies still had to do the books. In addition, Graydon Belgium cannot say that the decline is due to whether it is a sign of economic revival. The decline is mainly the result of measures which, whether or not they were intended to, have dampened the purifying effect of the commercial courts. Moreover, the good results for Brussels give a distorted picture for the rest of the region. In West Flanders, for example, where there is a lot of activity in the hospitality and construction industry, the number of bankruptcies has even increased. And one last worrying fact: last year, the number of older companies that went bankrupt also increased sharply. So let us be clear that we still need measures to enable small businesses to pass through this difficult period. At the moment, however, I would like to make a plea for all the creatives who, since 2008, have set up a business, but have seen their ambitions fall because of the economic climate. They deserve another chance. According to Graydon, half of the people who saw their company go bankrupt have the courage to start over, but they feel lonely according to Intermediate Step vzw. It is up to us to welcome these restarters and give them every opportunity to succeed in their new project. Minister, how will you pursue a second chance policy for entrepreneurs, so that they are not chased by or stigmatized by their previous bankruptcy? Do you see an option in additional training or guidance for restarters, possibly in cooperation with the Regions? Will you take into account the geographical and sectoral differences in your policies? I will continue with my second question which relates to this. I'm not gonna outline the context, I'm just gonna ask the questions. How long does it take on average in our country to deal with non-fraudulent bankruptcies? Should a great deal of effort be made to reach the one-year deadline to complete bankruptcies? At the end of the bankruptcy proceedings, the discharge has been granted automatically for several years if there is no fraud. How often is change refused? Cleaning can also be requested by the entrepreneur six months after the bankruptcy. Is this rule sufficiently known to the entrepreneurs? Is changing often applied for early?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u26	Minister, you have the floor for both answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, first of all I would like to remind you that it is crucial to help those who fail in good faith to start up an economic activity again. A study has shown that re-entrepreneurs generally have a better chance of having a viable activity than who starts for the first time. We must help those who have learned from their mistakes to use this knowledge to create values and sustainable jobs. In this respect, I will ensure, as provided for in the government agreement and in consultation with my colleague responsible for Justice, that the principle of the second chance is extended by adapting the legal and regulatory provisions relating to bankruptcy to the law on the continuity of undertakings and the excisability of the bankrupts. For example, together with my colleague responsible for Justice, who is responsible in this area, I will extend the collective debt regime to all or part of the debts arising from a previous bankruptcy. In addition, we will ensure that the curators better inform traders about the existence of bankruptcy insurance. We will also consider whether it is not possible to repay part of the fees paid to the Registry in the event of an application for a judicial reorganisation procedure if it is not unlawfully lodged. We will also consider whether it is not possible to provide for a pro-Deo system for SMEs in a judicial reorganisation procedure. With regard to social security, I will extend the bankruptcy insurance mechanism to cases of forced termination for economic reasons. For example, I want to ensure that the entrepreneur who is in good faith is encouraged to stop a non-profitable activity. In this way, the risk of eventual bankruptcy will be reduced and the entrepreneur, if he so wishes, will be able to start a new and more viable activity. However, we know how difficult access to credit remains for entrepreneurs who have failed or for companies covered by the law on continuity. I will therefore examine, in consultation with Febelfin and with the small and medium-sized organizations, the possibilities of making loans to entrepreneurs who are starting over. With regard to the intellectual professions, which also fall within my sphere of competence, I will, of course, in consultation with the sectors, focus on the introduction of a procedure of reparation where it does not yet exist, for example in the surveyor expert. In this way, persons who were removed from their order or from their institution, for example because they had not paid their contributions, will be able to re-exercise after a certain period of time and after an analysis of their file by the order and/or institutions. I also want to work on a mentality change. We know that the entrepreneurs who are starting up a new activity in the Anglo-Saxon countries are being welcomed, thereby making the experience of the failure worse. We're a long way from that. This is not the case in our country at all. That is why I will launch a communication campaign, in consultation with the middle class organisations, to focus on those entrepreneurs who have successfully started a new business after one or more bankruptcies. With regard to the possibilities of additional training or guidance of those who restart an activity, it is not possible for me to intervene. Vocational training is now basically a regionalised competence. However, I will not fail to raise the awareness of my regional colleagues who are responsible for the training and supervision of companies in the broad sense of the word. For the intellectual professions under my supervision, I will contact the institutions and orders concerned. In fact, I want to ensure that in the continuing training that their members are required to receive, appropriate management training can be integrated into their specific needs, except for those which are specific to their profession. I refer you to my colleague from the Justice Department for the statistics on embezzlement, which you are asking for. However, I agree with you on the fact that the principle is not met by entrepreneurs. You also asked a question about taking into account the geographical differences and the different sectors in the formulation of my policy. As a federal minister, I would like to treat all entrepreneurs on an equal footing, regardless of their geographical origin. However, I would also like to take into account the specificity of some sectors in order to implement certain policies more efficiently. For example, companies recognised as craftsman within the meaning of the Law on the legal definition of the craftsman of 19 March 2014 may benefit from rules that take account of their specificity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm actually glad you're putting the emphasis on changing people who work in good faith. After all, a failed party always gets to deal with accusations in the sense of misuse or mismanagement of money. You say that you would allow people who are not doing well financially to stop their business before they go bankrupt. Did I get that correctly? I do not understand how this can be organised in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u29	In our action plan for SMEs, we will include more specific measures for certain situations before bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u30	I also asked how long it takes in our country on average to deal with non-fraudulent bankruptcies. I didn't hear this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u31	I will give you this specific answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister, the European decision to abolish milk quotas, which will be effective at the end of March, and the absence of regulatory measures to compensate for this abolition, are of serious concern to the agricultural sector and in particular to the dairy producers. For example, in addition to all the personal testimonies I have received from dairy producers, the milk producers' union (LMO) calls for a reduction in milk production to avoid a crisis. According to the EMB, production should be cut by 2 to 3 % in order to realign supply to demand. Today, overproduction causes catastrophic prices to fall for producers and mainly for small producers, particularly in Belgium and Wallonia. The aim should be to keep the price of milk sold by producers at more than 30 cents per litre (some talk about 37 cents to achieve a sufficient level of income), to maintain a variety of producers rather than achieving monopolies of large agricultural structures and to avoid the import of low-priced milk. We fully share this concern of dairy producers. At the time of the first milk crisis, I had the opportunity to question Mrs. Laruelle. Specific measures of solidarity with producers had been envisaged. At the time, we considered that they were too weak and not structural. We expect structural responses. I know you saw the Agrofront this morning. We will be able to have a completely topical debate. Mr Minister, do you share – I have no doubt – the concern of dairy producers about the future of their sector and the risk of a new milk crisis? Was this issue raised recently at a European meeting of Agriculture Ministers? What was Belgium's position on this occasion? If quotas are not maintained, are other measures to regulate production envisaged at European level? What is the European calendar on this subject? Is it on the agenda of scheduled meetings? At Belgian level, have there been any consultations with your regional counterparts in charge of agriculture? What is the position of each other? Are joint measures envisaged in support of dairy producers? In addition to the production control measures, are specific support and solidarity measures for dairy producers being studied, in particular with a view to the direct recovery of dairy products? This can be a form of supplementary income for producers who thus benefit from the margins for valuing products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u33	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, as far as the milk sector is concerned, we are in a situation which must call for the utmost vigilance. If current prices are to be extended in time or if they are to fall in the coming months, we may find ourselves in an extremely difficult situation. The basic price of milk in our country is around 30 cents per litre. To give you a basis of comparison, the average price for the year 2014 was 36 or 37 cents, depending on the collectors. The average price for 2009 was 22 cents per litre. I am quoting 2009 because it was the year of the major crisis that we experienced and characterized itself by the demonstrations and the massive application of milk. In this context, a number of elements should be noted. We are influenced by many things in this highly globalized market. The first element is the large global production which resulted in a 5% increase in Belgium in 2014. We produced 3.4 billion litres of milk in our country in 2014. To produce these 3.4 billion litres, 8,200 producers were involved. The same phenomenon of global production growth was observed, ranging from 6 to 7 per cent. The production context is therefore important. Secondly, the market is disorganized by different elements. In particular, there are the indirect consequences of the Russian embargo. The end of quotas is also one of the elements, but I draw attention to the fact that in 2009 there were still milk quotas and that we were in a crisis situation with even lower price levels. As you have rightly said, depending on the financial structure of the holding, when you go below 28 or 30 cents, you are below the cost of production. While this situation is very temporary, as farmers may for some time endorse the fall in prices, it cannot, however, be prolonged, at the risk of facing major economic difficulties. In this context, several actions have been undertaken, are under way or will be carried out in the short term. A meeting of agriculture ministers is to be held in Brussels next Monday. The agenda of the three previous Councils of Ministers included an item on the price of milk and the consequences of the Russian embargo. This item will still be on the agenda of the next Agriculture Council. To be complete, I must add that this is not the only sector of production that is in crisis today. Other sectors are the subject of our concern. Thus, the pig sector is facing an extremely serious crisis. Because it is older, because it has other sources, the situation in the sector is, today, truly 'devast'; I weigh my words. The price of pork must therefore be restored. The two points mentioned above will, in any case, be on the agenda of the next Council of Agriculture Ministers. Furthermore, you know that this is a subject linked to largely regionalised competences. Therefore, together with my colleagues Joke Schauvliege and René Collin - as before each Council of European Ministers - we will have in-depth consultation either personally or through our services and collaborators. We participate in these two- or even three-member meetings so that regional authorities and the federal spokesperson can speak out in full consultation and intelligence. The aim is to move things forward together and not to create mutual difficulties, given the articulation of our competences. What will we propose in concrete terms, particularly following the consultations? As you note this morning, before coming to see you, I have received representatives of the Agrofront, that is, of the three representative agricultural organisations, for their analysis and proposals. Firstly, at European level, the level of intervention price which revolves around 18 cents has been set historically and no longer corresponds to the current market price. We therefore wish, but without reaching 18 cents, what would lead to a disaster and even if part of the impact is symbolic, to start a discussion with the Commission for an even gradual recovery from this rate to intervention. Moreover, by Monday we will be seeking the assistance of European colleagues. Secondly, we hope that measures linked to temporary private storage can be analysed in such a way as to allow a flow-control effect when production supply exceeds demand; this is the case today. Thirdly, we wish, together with all federal stakeholders (External Trade, Food Security), with the regional counterparts in charge of export, to organize us on a platform in order to effectively support the efforts of our sectors to promote and market our products in large export markets. Fourthly, I am informed that, in a positive climate, the various partners in the chain, i.e. all those involved in the production, processing and marketing of dairy products, are conducting in-depth consultations so as to achieve a correct remuneration for everyone. This work is carried out in a positive climate with a genuine openness of all. In this context, I have also proposed that the Price Observatory make its expertise available to inform, objective, collaborate in the definition and analysis of price developments and the various elements. Other points emerge more specifically from the action of regional governments. I will only outline them by stressing that I want to respect the skills of my colleagues. These are the promotion of our products in our territory, the support for processing, diversification efforts and the investment required for product diversification efforts. These are important elements that fall within the competence of the Regions. I will conclude by recalling that at the federal level, we have taken some steps to be able to weigh where possible in relation to the financial situation of the farms. That is why, at the end of last year, I took a decision allowing the temporary postponement of the payment of social contributions for agricultural enterprises in difficulty without any increase, for a period of one year. We were also able to carry out a one-shot operation to reduce contributions to the Health Fund by 57% for 2014. On the other hand, we have perpetuated indefinitely the challenges of the various investment aids and aid under the CAP, which benefit our farmers. Believe me, I am extremely attentive to the messages coming to me from the agricultural world! I'm trying to objectiveize the numbers. I also make comparisons with what we have known in the past. At the same time, I wish to be proactive. In particular, at the December European Council, the Belgian delegation had a specific meeting with European Commissioner Phil Hogan to raise our concerns. The milk sector, and especially at the time the pig sector, was on the agenda. We will follow, in addition to all the mobilisations which I have just mentioned, with great attention, 15 after 15 weeks, the evolution of the price of milk and the announcements of prospects which are made to us and which we really need to know. I will propose to the European Commission to study the price of certain specific elements that are part of farm costs. I am thinking in particular of the price of fertilizers, these inputs on farms. The price of fertilizers seems to me – I use the conditional – to remain very high while for years I have heard that it has changed with the price of petroleum products rising. However, when we are in the opposite situation, I do not observe the reverse movement. I do not want to prejudge the answer, but I think working on the cost of some mandatory inputs is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u34	Minister, thank you. Mr Gilkinet, this is a well-developed answer. We are beyond the usual time for a question/answer but as we are at the end of the committee and given the interest of the subject for all those who are still present, I have let it happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u35	Mr President, fortunately we are at the end of the meeting, but I prefer a somewhat too long answer than a much too short one. Minister, I knew you had been a mayor of Somme-Leuze, but I didn't know you had been mayor of Champignac. Let us move on, because this subject is extremely serious and, unfortunately, it is not new. I asked Ms. Laruelle about this in 2009. I'm afraid it's the chronicle of an announced crisis. The first of the arguments to be taken at the European Council, even in the case of previous decisions, is the question of the regulation of supply. Irrespective of the decision to abolish quotas, is it possible to convince your European colleagues that disaster can occur if production capacity is completely liberated? If we do this, public authorities will only be able to come with one-off, costly measures that will in no way solve the substance of this problem. That is our concern. You also seem to discover – this is your last word – the consequences of market deregulation. We have argued from the beginning for a more important role for the Price Observatory than it has been able to play since it was set up. We have argued for fair remuneration of stakeholders at different stages of the food production chain. There has been no formal decision on this matter since 2009. Unfortunately, Europe is not moving towards more regulation. There are elements of your answer that I can support, in particular the question of support for the short circuit, the differentiated quality that may exist in our regions. In this regard, we must also talk to the AFSCA, which often comes to the agenda of our committees and which is not always a support for local producers. Specific aid must be possible, but the postponement of the payment of social contributions is not a structural solution, you will agree. You're not the only one at the manoeuvring. Agriculture is a largely regionalized competence. I think we need a common front of Walloon, Flemish and federal ministers (I am not talking about Brussels in this area) to defend a specific agricultural model. I also turn to the chairman: I think that this committee could deal with the matter with hearings by the various interlocutors. I therefore ask you, Mr Borsus, to hit the table at this Monday's meeting at European level to try to obtain measures to limit production and to consider, in consultation with the interlocutors, structural solutions for the surplus, in particular as regards the margins of the various players in the food production chain and the promotion of short circuits, up to and including in public procurement at local level, to enable local producers to find new niches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-20-54-commissie-ic056x.u36	Mr Gilkinet, since the answer was long, I have allowed the reply to be so. Next Tuesday, we will discuss the order of business of this committee. Each group may propose hearings or others. We have not exhausted this subject, but at least we have exhausted this morning's agenda. Minister, thank you.
