ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u1	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of April 2015, mayors in Flemish Brabant received a letter from the governor inviting them to pay quarterly instalments for 2015 as well as the 2013 settlement. For the sake of clarity, these were the mayors of protected municipalities, without barracks on their territory. From 1 January 2015 there is also a fire zone Oost active. Our municipality has already paid its contribution to this. This amount was already included in the 2015 budget. In that letter of early April, the governor asked to pay for 2015 as well. This is, of course, a problem because the municipalities did not foresee it. It was very briefly communicated by the governor, or it wasn't properly understood. In concrete terms, many municipalities have a double fire department release for 2015. A number of mayors from Flemish Brabant have asked the governor. His services explained that the N+1 system is active. This means that in year N the services were provided by the municipalities with a barracks on their own territory. In year N+1, payments are to be made through quarterly instalments. Then there will be the necessary reckonings. All this is based on the Law of 31 December 1963 on Civil Protection. Articles 10 and 11 of this Act determine how municipal contributions are calculated. There is no discussion about that. However, nothing has been determined as to how the payments are to be made or how the N+1 system works. The quarterly instalments are laid down by law, but they are not really clear. The specific problem is that many municipalities are experiencing budgetary problems, but above all in terms of cash flow. In some municipalities, this amounts to EUR 500 000 and in others to EUR 1 million in additional expenditure. I have four specific questions on this matter, Minister. Articles 10 and 11 of this Act determine how municipal contributions are calculated. However, there is nothing to find on the N+1 system. Is there a legal basis or explanation as to why and how this N+1 system was created? The quarterly instalments are automatically withheld from the municipal accounts. This was determined by law of 1963. In 2015, many municipalities in Flemish Brabant will have unforeseen double expenses for their fire services. Is it possible to stop the automatic withholding of quarterly instalments so that municipalities do not face cash flow problems? Is it possible to allow a derogation from the 1963 law so that municipalities can spread their double spending in 2015, for example over two or four years? Have identical problems of double spending been identified in other provinces or is this only a problem in Flemish Brabant and the East Zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u2	Mr Vandenput, I answer questions one and three together. The system of distribution of fire-fighting costs applicable until 31 December 2014 was introduced in 1968. For this purpose, agreements were worked out between municipalities and municipalities without fire brigades. These were bilateral agreements without a legal framework. Since 1968, the regulation of the firefighter's contribution has been amended several times, in law, in royal decrees, in ministerial decrees and in circular letters. Because of this long period and the many changes, it is not an easy task to check whether and how contributions to the fire department were paid each year. Any change in the rules may also have led to changes in payment. All this also appears to have had an impact on the practical application of netting, as the delay in settlement and advance payments appears to differ from county to county. This has been implemented in different ways in the different provinces. For the specific case in Flemish Brabant, the conclusions will therefore partly depend on the information we receive from both the protected municipalities and the group center municipalities. They shall have in their accounts the proofs of payment or revenue. My services, in cooperation with the services of the governor of Flemish Brabant, are currently working hard to reconstruct the payments of the contributions as closely as possible. We are working together with the municipalities to check the history of payments. If it were to be established that there would be too much advance payments in 2015 for a year, this would of course be corrected as soon as possible. That goes without saying. As far as your second question is concerned, on the issue of cash flow, I can tell you that if automatic retention were to be stopped, this would obviously also affect the cash flow of the central municipalities, the receiving municipalities. I assume you're mayor of a protected community. We must therefore exercise caution, but my services have consulted with the Governor of Flemish Brabant and we propose to freeze the automatic withholding of the second quarter tranche, precisely because of that cash flow. In this way, we can assess in all serenity whether recovery is effectively necessary. So we're freezing it now and trying to do the calculations. If it turns out that there is indeed a need for correction, then the problem is less. With regard to your fourth question, concerning the other provinces, I do not know at the moment about such problems in other provinces. Administrative handling has not been carried out in the same way in each province. We'll follow up, but something in me says that if those problems occur in other provinces, we'll find out soon. Good mayors are also active there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Timing is indeed important, but clarity is particularly important in this dossier. I understand very well that it is a technical dossier and that many things need to be requested and that it needs some time. I hear your services and your administration are working on it. For your information, I am also in contact with the mayors of the center municipalities. I already told the governor that they didn't actually register any income for those cases before 2015. Maybe it's okay if you take that information with you...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u4	So they wouldn't have a cash problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u5	So they wouldn't have a cash problem. We'll follow up on this. You may also know that a number of municipalities have gone to the Council of State. It just happened to protect itself, not to attack the 1963 law. If the municipalities, the center municipalities, the protected municipalities and your services work together we will get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u6	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of a sound policy of prevention with regard to radicalisation is a concern of several local leaders. The Unit of Radicalism of the FPS Home Affairs brought together, on Friday 20 February, the cities and municipalities that included the prevention of radicalisation in their strategic security and prevention plan and/or received financial impetus in the context of the prevention of radicalisation. The aim of the coordination meeting was to inform professionals about the latest trends at the level of tackling radicalism and terrorism, as well as proposing tools and practices for local policy. Meetings will be held on a quarterly basis. I'd like to get some data. How many different local authorities participated in the FPS initiative? Can conclusions be drawn or have good practices been found that can be shared? Is there another meeting planned yet? Will the hotlines set up within the regional authorities and various other public bodies such as education be included in the future? What initiatives are planned with regard to other local authorities that do not have a safety and prevention plan or receive financial impetus? Does this FPS initiative fit into a more structural prevention policy plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u7	Mr Demon, there were 12 local authorities present at the meeting to which you refer. This coordination meeting has as its finality to exchange information and promising practices and to provide an overview of current developments in preventing the phenomenon, initiatives and trends surrounding the phenomenon of radicalisation, as well as to promote networking between actors, active in this field. At the level of exchange of practices, particular attention is therefore paid to the learning points of cities and municipalities in their local approach. The development of these initiatives and the dissemination of these lessons is also the focus of the so-called pilot projects Radicalisation which have benefited from financial impetus. The meeting on 20 February also provided a presentation of some cities on their approach and the learning points. A new coordination meeting was already held on 6 May. Two similar meetings will be held in the months of September and November in 2015. There is coordination at official level with the respective coordinators on radicalism of regional authorities. Those coordinators meet regularly, but that is at official level. The possibility was given to these coordinators to participate in the meeting on 6 May, as well as in the meetings in September and November. They are therefore now systematically invited. The cities and municipalities that do not have a safety and prevention plan and/or financial impetus can always contact the FPS. On the basis of this customer contact, we would like to look at the current challenges at official level with a view to presenting some possible points of reference for local policy. Participation in the coordination meeting may be one of the possible outcomes of such an initiative. The question to the municipalities that are not part of that project is therefore to contact the FOD, if they have similar initiatives, and to consider the FOD as an expert centre and test their ideas there. If it proves useful that these municipalities are also invited to the coordinator's meeting, we will do so. The aim is to counter radicalism. It's not supposed to follow rules down to the tips. The initiative lies therefore with the municipalities themselves to contact the FPS. The FPS and specifically the General Directorate for Security and Prevention is responsible for the federal coordination of initiatives by actors in the field to prevent violent radicalisation. This role is in line with the government agreement and the initiatives contained in my policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u8	Minister, I do not think that there are 12 municipalities. From an earlier answer to one of my questions, I know that in only 14 municipalities radicalisation is included in the safety and prevention plan. Now we see that only twelve congregations are coming to that meeting. You don't like that much either. You said you were going to send a letter in March. Did you do that? Not all the municipalities and cities in our country have a direct link to radicalism, but twelve or fourteen municipalities are little. Do you want to make efforts to get more municipalities to you or leave it to the municipalities and cities to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u9	No, we're not just gonna leave it to them. The letter is not yet available, but the project is ready for the September meeting. A great statesman once said here: "You can lead the horse to the water, but you can't make it drink." We must make every effort to lead the horse to the water.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u10	Bring the horse in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u11	Speaking of great statesmen, I think I know this great statesman is from your city.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u12	Police officers are sometimes exposed to crisis situations that not only cause stress at the moment but also later require considerable mental effort. The stress team of the federal police can be strongly supportive shortly after crisis situations. Last year, the Minister of the Interior launched a circular clarifying the services offered by the federal police stress team in relation to local police. This includes cases of aggression towards policemen. There is also an offer in this context for family members of police officers who are victims of violence. I have a number of questions about this. How many times did the stress team have to act with local police in 2014? Has there been any evolution in the last ten years? What kind of incidents have the stress team been asking for assistance over the past ten years? Is it possible to split up local and federal police? That information may, of course, also be communicated in writing. In how many cases was support given to family members of police officers who were victims of violence? What did the stress team spend the most capacity on last year? How many cooperation protocols are there with local corps? What are these guys dealing with? Is the service provided by the stress team to the benefit of local police always free of charge? How was the offer made in relation to the police zones, in addition to the letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u13	The types of service provided by the stress team of the federal and local police are of a variety. I will provide you with a table of the figures for the last seven years, from 2008 to 2014. The figures are divided into a number of categories. There is the number of interventions of the stress team after an incident, a crisis intervention. That service is free of charge. Then there is the number of interventions for psychosocial problems, stress and depression. That's a follow-up to the Department of Psychotherapy. That's a service that has to be paid for. Then there is the number of days given training on prevention and management of stress, burn-out and so on. That's also a paying facility. The number of days of training on prevention and management of stress and burn-out for the integrated police through police schools can also be found in that table, in addition to the number of advice, returns of service weapon and the number of stress surveys. It's a rather detailed table, I think. We are seeing a downward trend, in particular for the services to be paid by the federal police stress team in response to the needs of the police zones. An analysis of the data was not carried out, but this decrease is most likely explained by, unfortunately, the budgetary difficulties of the police services, which therefore prefer to use free calls for crisis intervention, or by setting up a local stress team in the major police areas. The federal police have a stress team, but the biggest police areas such as Ghent, Liège, Antwerp, Brussels-North and others, have their own stress teams. The peer support teams set up at local level to conduct first-line interventions will also play a role in this. Finally, there is an obligation to have a contract with an external agency for prevention and protection at work. This will also be a reason why the number of appeals on the federal stress team is falling. As regards your second question, the nature of the incidents for which the federal police stress team is called is, for both local and federal police, the following: shooting incidents with or without injury, with or without death of a colleague, of a person concerned or of a third party; violence; assault of a staff member by a third party with or without injury; an accident during the service with or without injury, with or without death of the person concerned or a colleague; intervention of personnel in disaster situations; suicide or attempted suicide of a staff member; interventions of staff in difficult situations, for example after the death of a child or after a serious traffic accident; and, finally, staff with psychosocial problems related to the content of the work, the working environment, or inter-collegial relationships at work. As far as your third question is concerned, as far as support for policemen's family members is concerned, I have no precise figures. The stress team has when the necessity and demand there were always intervened in such cases. It seems, however, that this is not recorded separately. In addition, the stress team has long been working with the police victims of the local and federal police. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the stress team has mainly intervened in the context of secondary and tertiary prevention. Within the framework of the circular, its capacity is more focused on supporting staff and their families who have been victims of violence by third parties. In addition, the capacity was also used to train the hierarchy and personnel responsible for psychomedical-social aspects of violence against police officers. The stress team therefore actually has two tasks, in the second or third order, to provide real assistance to the victim or the patient, but also to train people who come into contact with those victims in the first line. There are currently 43 paying cooperation protocols and 24 free cooperation protocols running between local police zones and the federal police stress team. These protocols can be spread over several years depending on the need for follow-up. These cooperation protocols are mainly about crisis intervention, psychological debriefing, individual guidance, stress surveys, training, etc. What are the free services that are also regulated through cooperation protocols? These are crisis interventions, interventions following violence by third parties and interventions in cooperation between local and federal police coordinated by the federal police. The other services are paying and are settled through paying cooperation protocols. As for your final question, the services offered by the federal police stress team were sent as a note to all police zones. This offer can also be found in detail on the integrated police's common intranet site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the extensive information. We'll look at the numbers with a lot of interest. At the very beginning, you said that the number of interventions has fallen. This may be the case either because of the creation of own teams in cities or because of the budgetary impact. As far as the latter is concerned, I personally find it strange that we should save on the support of agents or their families if something serious has happened. Are you prepared to look into this question and deal with it in future budgets? Perhaps you could give some more information about that, because I think it is important that our people are well supervised. Are they only now installed in the cities, now that there is a decline, or were they already present in the cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u15	There is a proportionality to be seen there. In relation to your first question, I agree that there is a need to inform about the importance of such guidance. Maybe we should put more emphasis on that. I do not agree with the financial consequences rather than the local employer, because that would always mean that we should not go into the provision of services, because there will be a time when additional money will be given. We are not going to do that, because that would be a penalty for the people and the zones that have already entered today. I do agree with you that we need to pay more attention to the importance. I will ask for the necessary initiatives to be developed in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the answer to a previous written question showed that a pilot project involving four motor brigades of the General Administration of Customs and Excise was launched in September 2013. Between 10 September 2013 and the end of October 2013, 179 infringements were detected and a total of more than EUR 100 000 in unpaid fines were collected. This good application of the ANPR system on this subject concerns my question, which, according to the Open Vld, should be further extended by giving police access to the database, for example. In some judicial districts such as West Flanders and Antwerp, the police are already using ANPR cameras to detect outstanding penalties against foreigners and enforce immediate payment. We believe that Belgians should be able to do the same. Moreover, this has an important deterrent effect, because since the police could immobilise the vehicle until the fine has been paid, the debtor of the fine will be encouraged to pay more quickly. It is true that we assume that the police should not in principle play a role in the collection of fines. In any case, this is not part of its core tasks. In our view, it might be a way of thinking not to leave the existing possibilities untapped. For improper tasks as described here, we propose that the use of the police be paid. Intervention could be offset by compensation for the workload as well as for the payment of expensive equipment, cameras. For example, the fee could be 10% of the amounts collected. Minister, do you support this view on a more extensive application of the ANPR system? Do you share the view that the collection of fines is not a central task of the police? Wouldn't it be better to outsource that task? What do you think of the idea of getting the police to pay for this improper task? Do you consider a fee of 10 % acceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you know that I am very much in favour of expanding ANPR applications in the network system. In the pilot project between customs and police in autumn 2013, the police got access to the database of penalty fines at FPS Finance through the ANPR system and could indeed establish the link between car drivers and many unpaid traffic fines. However, it can be further investigated whether and when it is desirable to grant the police access to a download via the ANPR system, the so-called black list of the database of outstanding penalty penalties for both domestic and foreign offenders, in order to detect unpaid fines. It is also necessary to examine the impact of this on the workload of the police. In short, automatic access does not seem desirable to me, but targeted access via the so-called black lists in order to deal with projects in consultation with the partners concerned. I fully understand your view that the police do not have to play a role in collecting penalty payments. This is a purely administrative, non-politician matter and is therefore not one of its core tasks. I still want to make a distinction. The collection of fines should certainly not be part of the regular police work. In my view, what is necessary is to guarantee the possibility of taking action and, above all, the possibility of punishment for those who systematically commit traffic offences and do not pay the fines. The police can therefore play an important role in terms of the chances of being caught and sanctioned, but not in the administrative handling of them. As you know, we are currently engaged in the core task debate. I do not want to anticipate the results, but the problem of handling these fines will be an important element in this debate and in the conclusions. Several proposals and measures have been made to collect unpaid fines, such as their settlement through the annual income tax statement. Your idea of collecting a flat-rate fee of 10% on the amounts collected for unpaid fines imposed by the police in connection with specific actions is also worth further investigation. In any case, this does not fall within my competence, but it belongs to the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for the penalty fines, and to the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the collection of the penalty fines. I therefore propose that you address this question to them. If there is an outsourcing of the collection of penalty fines, with 10% going to the police, that is a win-win situation. I will not fail to mention this on occasion to my two fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u18	Minister, I come to you with a federal aspect of Flemish competence. A few weeks ago, in the Flemish Parliament, the entire carousel on the appointment of the mayor of Linkebeek was discussed. The candidate mayor, who was nominated by the city council, was not appointed by the Flemish government because he did not fulfil the conditions for exercising that mandate. In the meantime, that refusal to appoint has been confirmed by the General Assembly of the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State. According to Article 13a, § 6 of the new municipal law, the city council may submit a new nomination certificate to the Flemish government within 30 days by a vote. That deed cannot affect the previously nominated mayor. The same paragraph of the law states that if the Council of State confirms the non-appointment, it is final. The city council of Linkebeek, contrary to what is stated in the law, has not proposed a new candidate mayor, but has decided to appoint the rejected candidate mayor as acting mayor. Even if the Flemish minister as a supervisory authority destroys that decision, which she does intend to do, the person concerned will still remain acting mayor. According to the law, they fall back on a previous decision of the city council. It is intended to appoint the same person as acting mayor. In this way, the carousel in Linkebeek continues to go crazy. This should not have been the intention of the legislator. Flemish Minister for the Interior, Mrs Homans, questioned about this, replied that a federal initiative was needed............................................................................................................................................................................................. That initiative should include the possibility for a mayor who has not been appointed not only not to be nominated during the same term of office but also to be unable to hold office during the same term of office. There was a big applause on the benches of your party. I have two minor questions for you concerning the possibilities and powers of the Flemish Government to act sanctioningly. Can it oblige the city council of Linkebeek to propose another candidate mayor, as laid down by law? Are there other decrees available to the Flemish Government to stop the carousel? If not, are you going to go into "This is the essence and the most important question" at the request of Minister Homans to take a federal initiative to amend Article 13a of the new municipal law in such a way that the carousel that is in progress today can be stopped?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u19	Mrs Pas, as you yourself point out, the city council of Linkebeek does not comply with the special municipal law. On the contrary, the city council of Linkebeek does not respect the spirit nor the letter of the law. Article 13a of the Municipal Law was made exactly as a means of pacification, but one actively chooses not to take into account the pacification rule, the higher government and the Council of State. The Flemish Government does not have the power to require the city council to nominate another candidate mayor within the 30-day deadline. However, the Flemish Government has announced that it will take other initiatives. The municipal decree gives the Flemish government the power to regulate the local authorities. A mayor who has not been appointed cannot be re-designed during the same term of office. The Flemish Region has announced that it will take an initiative to stop the carousel. As far as your third question is concerned, I am not taking the lead on the facts, but I am waiting for concrete proposals. I'm in agreement with the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u20	Minister, I note with you that the city council of Linkebeek does not take the law into account. They just ignore the law. In any case, there is no question of pacification. If Home Secretary Homans himself says there are gaps in federal municipal law, then it would be logical for you to take initiatives to adapt it. If the Flemish Government wants to take initiatives, but says that a federal initiative is needed to stop the carousel, I would have expected you to have that federal initiative. Have you set a deadline for consultation with the Flemish Government, so that I know when I can ask you a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u21	In politics, it is never wise to pin themselves down on time. We're doing our job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u22	So are we. I will therefore remind you on a regular basis and ask for a state of play in the consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u23	I assume that will happen immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you about the implementation of the Tournai agreements signed between your predecessor, Joëlle Milquet and Manuel Valls, then French Minister of the Interior. I remember; I was present as a mayor at the time. These agreements included joint patrols and the authorization of the respective national polices on the territory of the neighbour. I know that many border mayors, like me, both Walloon and Flemish, are concerned about the implementation of these agreements. In my police area, mixed patrols had been launched, but we are limited by the non-ratification of these agreements in Tournai. Although Belgium has indeed taken the necessary measures to give effect to this Convention, it seems that France does not show the same willingness to ensure reciprocity. You announced last February that you and your counterpart, Minister Cazeneuve, would raise this issue. I would therefore like to ask you this simple question. Did you have any contact with him? Do you have any information on the effective implementation of the provisions of this agreement on the French side?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u25	Unlike Mr Thiébaut, I am not the mayor of a municipality on the border with France. However, I do live in an area where border crime has already struck very hard in the past. That is why it was very important for our region to intensify cross-border cooperation, which has existed since the Doornik agreements in 2001. This led to the signing of a second agreement by Tournai in 2013. However, as Mr Thiébaut pointed out, both the present members of the committee and the members of the committee from a previous legislature have often said that the importance of the Tournai agreement is of real importance only when it can be implemented. We ratified the Convention here in the Belgian Parliament at the end of the previous legislature in April 2014. In France, as far as I can see, the draft law in question is before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the French Assembly. Minister, you have indeed mentioned a number of times that you would be discussing the issue with your colleague from the Interior, Mr Cazeneuve. However, in the meantime, because it is a matter that remains with the French Assembly, I have asked for a letter to the French Assembly, together with the President of the Chamber, Mr Bracke, in order to call for the draft law, which must be implemented in the 2013 Doornik agreements, to be dealt with quickly. I have three questions. Firstly, have there been any contacts with your French colleague since your most recent explanatory statement in the Chamber? Secondly, are there any indications that the fight against border crime is suffering from France's failure to ratify it? Thirdly, it seems very strange to me that the matter should be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the French Assembly. Can you explain to me why that would be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u26	Mr President, I can answer your last question directly. No, I can't explain that. I have little to do with the work of the French assembly, so I cannot explain that to you. The new agreement of 2013 known as Tournai 2 has already been ratified by Belgium on 23 April 2014, but will only enter into force once France has ratified it as well. To date, the ratification procedure in France is still under way. In my contacts with Mr Cazeneuve, whom I see almost monthly and also address, he refers to the separation of powers. He makes it appear that he is also a party asking for it, but is not about the separation of powers. In that sense, I hope to see some effect of the letter you will write. However, police cooperation with France is in no way affected by this situation. In the meantime, the services of both countries continue to carry out their activities, including in the form of joint patrols. These operations are carried out in both territories on the basis of both European and bilateral texts. More specifically, the 2001 Tournai agreement, called Tournai I, remains revised by the new 2013 agreement in force until it is effectively replaced by the latter. For the mixed patrols there is therefore a legal basis; these can be implemented. Tournai II provides an answer to situations like the following. Suppose a patrol pursues a pursuit all the way to the border of France, then that patrol can continue the pursuit. There is therefore nothing to suggest that the fight against cross-border crime is suffering from the slow ratification of the agreement on the French side. I hope, however, that the French will do their job. I am also looking forward to the initiative that the President of the Chamber and the chairman of this committee will take in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u27	Minister, thank you. I think sending a letter to the National Assembly is a good thing. I'm surprised it takes so long, it's quite amazing. It has been signed in France for more than a year. Why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u28	I can send a rogatory commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u29	My colleague tells me it's probably because of the French socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u30	I can't imagine it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u31	When will this mail be sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u32	I first spoke to him about this two weeks ago. I have delivered a draft letter in Dutch to his services, which may translate the text into more diplomatic terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u33	Perhaps it would be better to draw up that letter in French, since it is sent to France?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u34	It will certainly be translated into French. It also fits in with the fact that our Minister regularly speaks to Minister Cazeneuve, but does not see any progress. I therefore believe that Parliament should take the initiative to write to the French Parliament so that the separation of powers there can hopefully be encouraged to some urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u35	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u36	Questions Nos 4434 and 4436 by Mrs Ben Hamou are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u37	Mr President, Minister, last month, during a fire in the Flemish Brabant province, the Flemish Brabant East rescue zone appealed to the Walloon Brabant rescue zone. Of course, while I am pleased that such cooperation may exist, some facts are troubling. Indeed, it has been reported that this rescue area of the East Flemish Brabant has decided to resort only marginally to the overtime of its volunteer staff, preferring, in case of shortage of available hours, to rest on its neighbours if necessary. This would therefore mean that the call for neighbouring relief areas is not necessarily based on an urgent need and a real shortage of staff in the face of an exceptional situation, but only on a lack of budgetary resources allocated to existing staff to carry out "ordinary" missions. It is, in my view, a drift of the system that needs to be corrected. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of the agreements between rescue zones, allowing them to charge themselves for their services between themselves, while making use to a legitimate extent of the solidarity that must exist in this and many others, and by avoiding possible abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u38	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, the law of 15 May 2007 on civil security already allows the relief zones to conclude agreements between themselves which regulate the financial arrangements and the implementation of mutual assistance and relief, as well as the arrangements for reinforcement of personnel and equipment. It is only in the event that an area intervenes in the territory of another area as part of the most rapid adequate aid in the absence of agreements that an amendment to the law is necessary. In the present state of the legislation, the area involved is invoiced for its intervention on the basis of its payment regulations. This unilateral billing can lead to abuse. That is why I have planned to amend the Act of 15 May 2007. In the bill on various provisions which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday, it is envisaged that a royal decree will lay down the conditions for invoicing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have met my expectations perfectly. As the item is already on the agenda of the Council of Ministers this Friday, it is perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u40	Mr. Chair, Minister, today, in their interventions, volunteer firefighters are paid on an hourly basis based on the duration of the interventions. It is understood that the minimum duration of a benefit is one hour even if they have provided only twelve, fifteen or twenty minutes. That is, if the duration of the intervention does not exceed one hour, the volunteer firefighter will still be paid as if he had worked a full hour, which I think is totally justified. However, as part of the reform of the relief zones, I have been told that this minimum benefit could be extended to two hours. A volunteer firefighter would now be paid a minimum of two hours of service instead of one. Is my information accurate or is it rumours? If they are true, is a draft circular under consideration or beyond, in programming? I obviously wanted to draw your attention, if that were the case, to the significant impact on the finances of the relief areas and, consequently, on those of the municipalities. Also in the event that this information is verified, could your services estimate the magnitude of this additional cost? Should there be additional costs, would the federal government intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u41	The answers to your questions can be found in my circular of 16 December 2014 on the interpretation of Article 36 of the Financial Status of Operational Personnel in Emergency Areas. This issue was also raised in the exchange of views on the reform of relief services that we had at the meeting of this committee on 11 March 2015. Before the transition to emergency areas, in many fire departments, the communal organic regulations provided that volunteer firefighters were paid a minimum of two hours for each intervention, even if the intervention was shorter. Currently, article 36 of the financial status of operational personnel in relief zones provides that the minimum allowance for a benefit corresponds to that payable for one hour's benefit and appears to terminate the possibility of payment of a minimum of two hours per intervention. In order to avoid differences of interpretation, this regulatory provision has been clarified. My circular of 16 December 2014 states that, pending this amendment, Article 36 should be interpreted as follows: Field E may grant by intervention a minimum allowance of more than one hour's benefit. This interpretation will be confirmed in a royal order of reparation in which I propose to make the link between the extended allowance and the conditions of availability and response. Since it is a possibility for the area to grant or not this higher minimum allowance under the new statute and since in many fire departments the communal organic regulation already provided for the voluntary firefighters to be paid a minimum of two hours for each intervention, the possible additional cost of this decision cannot be considered as an additional cost of the reform. This is a discretionary competence of the police zone. Police zones have the possibility of increasing the minimum cost to two hours, but they are not obliged to do so. It takes at least an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u42	Minister, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u43	Certain police zones cooperate with volunteers. Volunteers can be used for certain preventive tasks, such as bicycle checks and the provision of theft prevention advice. They should be trained as techno-prevention advisors at recognised police schools. After passing an exam, the successful volunteers get an ID from the Local Integral Security Executive Board of the FPS Home Affairs. With the involvement of volunteers, there will be more room for police inspectors to deal with their core operational tasks. Moreover, contact with the citizen is strengthened by volunteers as a kind of bridge person. How many volunteers have obtained an ID card since 2010 for the successful end of the training technoprevention advisor? Can you divide this by zone? Are there any peculiar differences in this? How many police zones have been working with volunteers today? Do you intend to expand the package of tasks that can be performed by volunteers? Who pays for the training of volunteers? How is the compensation of the volunteers arranged? Is the decision only in the area or is it covered by the law on voluntary service of 3 July 2005?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u44	My answer concerns only those volunteers who are employed in the municipalities or police areas to prevent theft. I will not give you an answer to the question as to whether the task package can be extended beyond the prevention of theft. This issue is part of the core task debate. I can assure you that this will be dealt with there. However, I do not want to comment on the key tasks debate before the consultation round is over. Break-in prevention is a task that can easily be carried out by volunteers, provided that they have followed the training of technoprevention advisor and that they are kept regularly informed of new developments through training courses and round tables of theft prevention advisors. I don't think that's a real police job. Policemen can do that, but volunteers can also be involved in this. This is also included in the circular PREV 31ter, to clarify the function, profile and recognition of the technoprevention advisors, published in the Belgian Official Journal on 1 March 2010. The ID cards were issued exclusively to the theft prevention advisors who applied for them. They were awarded for the first time for the 2013-2014 cycle. Then two voluntary prevention advisors got a card: someone from the Diest zone and someone from Dilbeek. Twenty-seven volunteers received an ID card for the 2015-2016 cycle. The card is valid for two years on the basis of continuing training. According to our data, four municipalities and one police area are now working with volunteers to carry out the tasks of theft prevention advice to strengthen the police or municipal advisors. This concerns the areas of Overijse, with two volunteers, Dilbeek, with five volunteers, Diest, with four, Herne, with two, and the Houtsche, with 16, more than all the others together. The training costs shall be borne by the zones or municipalities which employ volunteers. The compensation for volunteers is governed by the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers. Areas or municipalities wishing to reimburse the costs of their volunteers must choose between two existing systems: reimbursement of costs on the basis of supporting documents or reimbursement of costs on a flat-rate basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u45	My interest was aroused by the large number of volunteers in the neighbouring police area of the Houtsche. It seems to be more of an exception than the rule. It is good that the volunteers know what their responsibilities are and that the citizens know what they can do with them. I think it is very positive that this issue is taken into account in the key tasks debate and I will continue to follow the issue. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u46	Mr Minister, my question concerns the possibility of identifying police officers. Article 41 of the Police Office Act was amended on 4 April 2014. It states that, under certain circumstances, police officers are identifiable only by a number code and no longer by a name tag. This responds to the concerns of police officers who are sometimes threatened, personally and sometimes also their family members, after their actions. The name of the police officer in question is also mentioned in the police report, so that people who are being banished can easily find out who the police officer in question is. This doesn't always make a number of policemen feel safe. The amendment of the law provides that the report shall contain only the number code and no longer the name of the police officer. The law also states that there will also be a KB for implementation. My question is therefore whether there is already an implementing act before the entry into force of this law. What's the status of that? When do you foresee the publication of this royal decree? Can you already clarify the circumstances of the use of the cipher code? Does the use of the numerical code also leave room for the decision of the Chief Constable, who might be able to make a better assessment of the local security problems in his neighborhoods?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u47	I will answer your first two questions together. The entry into force of the Law of 4 April provides for a provision of the law laying down various provisions relating to the police which is currently in a draft phase. This includes an amendment to Article 41 of the Police Office Act, as replaced by the Law of 4 April 2014 on the composition of the Intervention Number. This intervention number is intended to be composed of five digits, derived from the police officer's identification number or police officer's identification number instead of four digits, preceded by a code. Everything will be done to ensure that the aforementioned law on various provisions will enter into force on 1 July 2015, in a good month. This means that both the amended article and the entry into force will then start. We will therefore no longer be talking about an implementing act, as it will take place through the law on various provisions and an amendment of the law on the police office. However, an KB is still being drawn up with regard to the detailed rules allowing identification. That is an opening to ensure that, if something had been forgotten, one can still arrange it through the KB. However, it does not exclude that the new identification form with code can enter into force as soon as the law is in force, in principle 1 July 2015. We do everything in our power to do that. I will answer your third question. In accordance with the preparatory work of the Law of 4 April 2014, it is intended to respond to the needs of anonymity and protection of the private lives of police officers acting in sensitive situations, while maintaining the general principle of the identification of police officers in the performance of their duties. The decision to change the nameplate by the intervention number is motivated by the existence of risk derivatives in the field of retaliation, in whatever form, such as threats, physical aggression, pressures, etc., in relation to police officers in charge of intervention. Such risks may, for example, be due to the sensitivity of the issues that police officers may face, such as organised crime, terrorism, unfair trade, or the repressive nature of their intervention. Some law enforcement operations are, of course, quite repressive in nature. The assessment will be made on a case-by-case basis and will always be derived from the circumstances. Article 41 of the Police Office Act, as replaced by the Law of 4 April 2014, expressly provides that, as regards the local police, it is for the Chief of Police to assess, taking into account the circumstances, the opportunity to replace the nameplate with the intervention number. So it's the chief of police's jurisdiction, at least when it comes to the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u48	So, Minister, you want to speed up the entry into force. The assessment will still be made on a case-by-case basis. Does that apply as a general rule, even if it's not about the local police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u49	Yes. There are no automatisms built in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u50	In any case, it is a question of specific criteria. Does the signature of the PV analog happen? If you enter the number code according to certain criteria, will the number code appear on the PV? Or does there exist a different arrangement for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u51	It seems to me to be logical: if one hides the name, then of course one will not mention the name in large measure on the paper given to the man or woman in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u52	I'm just asking the question to be sure about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u53	Minister, it is my last question for today. Recently, on 21 May 2015, I read in the media that you are finalising the precise guidelines for the establishment and deployment of rapid arrest teams with local police. Such teams should respond to the grey area between an ordinary police intervention and an intervention in which suspects are clearly armed. The criteria on training and general rules should contribute to greater uniformity among the local specialised units. They should also prevent the proliferation of such units. I asked you earlier about the operation of the rapid response teams set up in Antwerp. You stated at the time that the federal government was not involved. From the message I read, however, it appears that the rapid arrest teams are similar to the rapid response teams. I would like to have some answers. No additional staff were recruited to set up the rapid response teams in Antwerp. A redefining of the tasks was carried out in order to establish these teams. What about the recruitment for the rapid arrest teams at the local police? Who will vouch for that? Are the rapid response teams still under the jurisdiction of the zone? Will these teams be covered by the same guidelines as the guidelines for rapid arrest teams? You provide a lot of guidelines for the rapid arrest teams. Can you give me some concrete examples of guidelines? Do you also envisage an evaluation and adaptation of the guidelines of the Special Assistance Team, the so-called "Botinnekes'? If so, what period do you intend to apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u54	Mr Demon, following your own parliamentary oral question No. 3731, which we discussed here on 29 April 2015, I obtained information from the local police in Antwerp and replied to your question in detail. I am referring to that answer. I would also point out that the establishment of a rapid arrest team by means of a reorientation, an additional recruitment or any other means is a local authority and responsibility. It therefore belongs to the local authority. Selection will be carried out at local level, and support for the National Training Coordinator may be used. With the directive to which you refer, I will simply create a framework. I shall come back to that in a moment, in order to clarify things. I can answer your second question in the affirmative. The Rapid Response Teams remain under local authority and responsibility. The guidelines you are referring to will cover both types of teams. In reply to your third question, I would like to inform you that the objective of the guidelines for the rapid arrest teams is to develop a coherent and uniform approach to the integrated operation of the police, structured at two levels. They only create a global framework. From the integrated police, local and federal, this was needed and even a demand was addressed to our services. The Directives shall be drawn up with a view, on the one hand, to increasing the security and competences of the police officers concerned and, on the other hand, to ensuring smooth cooperation between the different levels of competence and competence, depending on the evolving risk level of an event. I can give you the themes in which standardisation is desirable in order to achieve the previous objectives. Examples are the selection criteria, the training standards, the content of the training courses concerned, the specific intervention techniques and tactics. I cannot go into more detail at the moment, as an expert working group, composed of members of the local and federal police, is developing the concrete implementation of the themes. It's not quite ready yet. The experience and expertise, as well as the improvement points of the federal and local corps already in possession of such teams, will of course be taken into account when drawing up the relevant directives. This is also evident from the composition of the expert group. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I think it is my duty as Minister to outline a framework for ensuring a coherent global policy applicable to the whole of the integrated police force, both local and federal, when there is a similar need for rapid arrest teams among different police entities. However, I cannot comment on punctual needs on which local authorities make specific policy choices. As you yourself set out in your introduction, I must also refer this time to the competence of the relevant local authorities. We are creating a framework within which it is possible to set up a rapid intervention team. We will decide which training courses should be followed, but the choice of whether or not to do so remains a local competence. If one chooses this rapid intervention, one has to work within the framework that will be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u55	Mr. Secretary, it is clear. Fast response teams or fast arrest teams all seem a bit the same to me. When I hear your explanation, I wonder whether it can be simpler, for example using one terminology that is the same for all zones, when you draw up those rules. I think this can avoid confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u56	Since Mr Vanvelthoven is not present and unattainable and he has not asked to postpone his question, his question becomes no longer available. 4543 if Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure is applied, 10° of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to be repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u57	Mr. President, Minister, the press is relaying information about the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), which is clearly questioning observers from our police services. Indeed, a few weeks ago, it was the announcement of a significant strengthening and additional resources for this unit dedicated to combating a form of crime, alas, increasingly widespread and lucrative for criminals. An announcement that aroused the fear of outsourcing the expertise built within the federal police in this area. Today, it is the announcement of an increased deconcentration of the fight against cybercrime that is causing concern. You say that the investigative capacity so far maintained at the federal level will be dismantled for the benefit of its regional branches. Of course, the process of deconcentration is emerging in the context of the optimisation of the police, a policy that we consider necessary and useful as it was conceived by the previous government. But this policy is necessary and useful because it was conceived in a global balance, which included maintaining at central level a real investigative capacity. In view of the very nature of this type of crime, do you not fear that the dismantling of this central investigative capacity and, moreover, of strategic planning, will lead to a considerable weakening of operational capabilities, which will not be compensated by the transfer to the sub-offices in the judicial districts? In other words, wouldn't a puzzle piece be missing? Some might wonder about the long-term horizon of your decision and see it as a hijacking of the optimisation of the police in the sense of a pure and simple regionalization of the security chain. But without going so far, I can only question the immediate reasons for this decision. Is this not to be seen first of all as a consequence of the staggering staff deficit caused on the ground by budget cuts? It has already been possible to repeat that, of the 1,400 recruitments planned by your predecessor, the means on the table allow only 800 new commitments. Is the liquidation of the capacity to investigate cybercrime at the federal level one of the first consequences of this lack of resources? Minister, can you give us some insight into these various points?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I understood that you did not want to answer that question today. You'll give us an answer. I am delighted and curious to hear it. Last Wednesday, I personally asked you and the Minister of Justice about the "deconcentration" announced by the extremely important investigative services, the Federal Computer Crime Unit and the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO). Today, my question is more about OECDFO. In response to these questions, the Minister of Justice stated that "OECDFO's investigative capacity will be de-concentrated in the district judicial branches". And you have been even more explicit, saying that "the service of the OECDFO ceases to exist and is entirely deconcentrated towards the levels of the boroughs", along with other speakers, notably Justice Claise. Minister, I would like to strongly challenge these choices and ask myself about the process that led to them. When a government repeatedly declares that the fight against fraud and financial crime is its priority, it must give itself the means to do so. However, it is not my interpretation of this decision that is more like dismantling an effective tool. Minister, is this decision final? I hope you can be made aware of reversing and taking other options. Decentralized Multidisciplinary Investigation Teams (MOTEMs) can be created and a central capacity for action can be maintained. By whom and when was this decision made? Is this a government decision or an option that you stand alone with the Minister of Justice's more or less explicit support? What is its legal basis? I was present at the time of work on the optimisation of the police services that are in a law. However, that is not what is provided for in the reading of the law. What justifies the government's changing position in relation to its commitment, as part of your policy note, not to touch on investigative and intervention capabilities "for the fight against corruption, serious forms of economic and financial crime and ICT crime"? In this case, it seems to me that the opposite is the case. Which bodies have been consulted on this decision? Has the College of Attorneys General been asked about this? What was his reaction? Were the judges directly concerned by this decision questioned? Do they support you in this choice? Will they be consulted? Will their opinion be taken into account? If the decision is confirmed, what will be the contact of foreign States in cases related to financial crime or computer crime? It seems to me important that there be a central point of contact. It is a question of effectiveness in the fight against these phenomena. How will the interdisciplinarity and specialization of federal response services be ensured in these very high-tech cases? You know that tax practitioners, police officers and other types of investigators coexist in OECDFO, adding up their skills. Finally, to what extent will the usefulness, and sometimes the need, of using investigators from other judicial or specialized districts in certain particularly sensitive cases be taken into account? I think that belonging to another borough can, in sensitive cases, be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u59	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in recent days the press has echoed concerns at the announcement of this process of deconcentration, decentralization of a number of services under the federal police and, in particular, the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime. In itself, this demand is not new, but magistrates and observers shout no more or less at the disaster and fear a tragic weakening in the fight against financial crime. At the time, your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, had rightly referred to "the aberration of such a dismantling project" as, on the contrary, it was a matter of "maintaining this service within the judiciary and even strengthening it". The previous government has thus committed additional specialized officers to strengthen this integrated service of the OECDFO, which, let us recall, is characterized by a very complex investigation which it has to deal with. I must point out here that Belgium is being cited today as a European example in the fight against VAT carousels, among others. A number of police officers and officials conduct training seminars in other countries to explain the detection, investigation and enforcement techniques of VAT carousels, which are only one element of financial crime and tax fraud in particular but which, until recently, could cost the State hundreds of millions or even billions. That's what we're talking about. If we make a bad choice of administrative management through decentralization, the deconcentration of the OECDFO, this could cost the state a lot of money, not to mention the human damage that is related to financial crime in general. It should be recalled that the successful execution of economic or financial investigations, very often of international scope, requires very specific qualification profiles from OECDFO investigators. They must be able to read profit and loss accounts, financial statements, and financial flows. They must also understand the financial circuits and flows as well as their tax and parafiscal implications. In short, they need expertise. For the time being, OECDFO includes investigators with these sophisticated resources. How can this valuable experience be maintained for such investigations by disbanding OECDFO? I say "demantle," I'm not exaggerating in terms of the vocabulary used. Indeed, from the moment we decentralize, we lose the force that can be represented by an integrated service, where multidisciplinary teams work who bring their expertise sometimes in tax matters, sometimes in terms of analysis of accounts, sometimes in relation to several other segments related to economic legislation. These services will be deconcentrated according to criteria which, unfortunately, remain unreadable today. By dismembering this unity, we will obviously lose coherence and weaken the OECDFO. Its strength is to address a complex and multi-faceted issue by mobilising a range of different but complementary skills. That is what is at stake. Moreover, the news of recent weeks shows us that economic and financial crime cases are, more than ever, international. For these reasons, I believe that, in addition to increasing research capacity within the five jurisdictions of the Appellate Courts through, among other things, the establishment of multidisciplinary joint investigations, we must strengthen and specialize the role of OECDFO in its integrated version as it exists. In other words, it is not a matter of favouring one or the other, but of increasing the capacity of decentralized services as well as the national integrated OECDFO strike force. This naturally requires maintaining sufficient capacity at the central level, which can also serve as an interface with its foreign counterparts, and keeping a real competence in terms of investigations. This is therefore an essential issue. In this way, the government will or will not demonstrate its determination to combat financial crime properly. But you will agree that we can legitimately question ourselves. Another argument is that an integrated force should be maintained. If we have to decentralise, how can we distribute the dossiers that are often – at the risk of repeating myself – an international dimension whose flows can be national, transregional, but also transnational? There's the problem of complicity. A sponsor and partner can be in different springs. With an integrated force, it is possible to immediately mobilize all the necessary skills without having to search in different springs, which otherwise could be de-charged. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, do you confirm the dismantling of OECDFO as described by the press? If so, by what means will you maintain the expertise of this service, and above all optimize - that is, strengthen - the investigative capacity for this type of organized and serious crime? You will understand that, in my questions, I plead for the continuation of OECDFO. I think it's still time for the government to review its policy. How do you intend to maintain the balance set out in the Police Optimization Plan, namely, to strengthen judicial investigative capacity in the five jurisdictions of the Courts of Appeal, while maintaining sufficient investigative capacity at the central level? It seems to me that your government agreement itself did not call that balance into question, as you seem to want to do today. Finally, how do you intend to make the fight against major financial and tax fraud a real priority in judicial investigations? In particular, will this be a priority in the National Security Plan, with sufficient means to combat it effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u60	Mr President, I shall first answer Mr Gilkinet's questions. Article 102 of the Act establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, sets out the tasks of the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police. Its primary role is to contribute to optimal integrated operations by ensuring the delivery of missions, support to branches and services. Article 105 of the same Law determines the deconcentrated management tasks. A draft royal decree, organic table 3, currently under discussion, aims to achieve this distribution and deconcentration of human resources. As a result of Article 105 of the Law, § 11, it will be for the King, after deliberation in the Council of Ministers, to lay down the procedures for the direction, coordination and commitment of staff in the field of organised economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud and ICT crime. Consultations on this subject are under way at several levels. The College of Attorneys General has already held discussions and the federal prosecutor has also been consulted. In order to be able to make a reasoned decision, we will also send a request to the Commissioner-General to send us an evaluation report on the services and their results for the last few years, this in the short term. Mr Gilkinet, let us be clear, a reorientation of this capacity through deconcentration is by no means a reduction in capacity, on the contrary! The aim of this deconcentration movement is to mobilize and thus to assign staff as much as possible to the priority phenomena and to the places where they provide optimum performance. This is the deconcentrated level. In addition, the Government's injection of budget resources to cybercrime and terrorism entities demonstrates the Government's commitment to making police services more effective and effective in the trafficking of cybercrime and Ecofin phenomena. Central services retain this competence. The Central Judicial Directorate for the fight against organised crime will therefore be the focal point for financial crime and DG SOC-FCCU will be the focal point for computer crime. In response to your seventh question, this is clearly defined by the Integrated Police Act and its article 105, § 11. Finally, the final question is clearly defined by the Integrated Police Act by combining the principles set out in Articles 102 and 105, § 11. With regard to the questions raised by Messrs. Laaouej and Demeyer, I have already answered the first question. As far as expertise is concerned, every effort will be made to maintain it and even more to optimize it and build capacity. The fight against financial crime and the fight against tax and social fraud are priorities of the government agreement. You just mentioned it. It is logical that sufficient operational guarantees should be established so that existing multidisciplinary cooperation is maintained. The expertise is already being carried out in partnership with the FPS Finances, the FPS Social Security, the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the National Social Security Office and the National Employment Office. She must be prosecuted. This expertise exists and is paramount. It is therefore maintained. In accordance with the Optimization Act, it will be discussed, in consultation with the FPS Finances, how tax inspectors can be incorporated into the FMP of appeal courts, from there to the deconcentrated directorates of the Federal Judicial Police. The operational capacity of the federal police to investigate this matter is not diminished by deconcentration. On the contrary! In addition, the role of central management will include, on the basis of article 102 of the Integrated Police Act, a support mission to the deconcentrated directorates. The Government has put specific budgetary resources in place to recruit very high-level specialists for this subject. Mr Laaouej, the process for the project of another security framework and the National Security Plan has just begun. We are not yet in the process of setting priorities. But it is certain that we will take into account the priorities set out in the government agreement and that we will focus on these plans with the Communities and the Regions, so for the moment I cannot make any progress on this subject. Mr Demeyer, in view of the strengthening mentioned and the provision of new budgetary resources by the government, I can assure you the opposite. For the remainder of this question and all the remaining questions, I refer you to my reply to this question dated 20 May 2015 to our colleague Vanessa Matz. That was question No. 4399. Last but not least, the optimisation aims at a more efficient and efficient operation, via a process-based approach and thus by breaking down the different services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u61	Minister, I'm not convinced. I think one of the reasons is probably the search for savings. I would like to believe you on the priorities, but they will be expressed in a new form of disorganization and inefficiency. At the same time, we are putting our finger on the pace of regionalization of central services. I have no doubt that we will have the opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u62	Minister, I note that consultations are under way. It seems to me that in politics, it is better to consult before deciding. Last week, you presented the dismantling of OECDFO as a decision taken; now you claim to be consulting. I hope there is still room for manoeuvre. You ensure that deconcentration would not diminish the quality of the fight against economic and financial crime. I cannot join you on this point. We're not talking about traffic police where you need to be able to quickly be at the scene of an accident. Belgium is a relatively small country. As much as I see the usefulness of interdisciplinary teams at the level of judicial districts, it seems to me necessary to maintain a central, coordinated body, which can be the interlocutor of foreign countries, which allows to act quickly, to work in a multidisciplinary way. By removing this body, you remove expertise and efficiency. I hope I can convince you of this or, failing that, make it a matter of government. I filed an inquiry with the Prime Minister. In my view, it is the type of file that must be the subject of a government decision and not only of the minister in charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u63	I said that this was a decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u64	So I confirm that I am challenging this decision, even if it was taken by the Council of Ministers. This is an additional reason for questioning the Prime Minister on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u65	As I said, the decision has not yet been made. We are in the process of consulting, preparing a royal decree to be presented to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u66	This leaves me with the hope of an adjustment before final decision-making. This encourages me to raise the Prime Minister's awareness of this issue. This is an issue that actually concerns the government, given the economic importance of the fight against economic and financial fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u67	Minister, if I understand correctly, the decision is not yet made. It is no secret to anyone: several theses are opposed within the police itself. Some argue for deconcentration, while others argue for the maintenance of an integrated force. It is difficult for a minister to know what saint to dedicate himself to and what the thesis should prevail. I have a suggestion for you, Minister. Why not take the time to consult the investigating magistrates, those who are at the front in the fight against financial crime? They sometimes find themselves in extremely difficult conditions because they face mafias, very determined people who use every possible means to avoid the completion of investigations. These can tell you whether or not the current OECDFO is a service that works or not, and whether to maintain it or not, in integrated force. For example, we have succeeded in Belgium, and it is exceptional, in containing something that cost us billions, namely the VAT carousels. We have succeeded because we have changed the legislation, but also because we have put in place effective detection teams and systems. If you have tomorrow a Brussels investigating magistrate who has specialized in VAT carousels across the country and who loses his investigator because, for example, he is sent to Ghent where he will be assigned to other files, you lose some grey matter. The human factor is extremely important. If we do not pay attention to organizational choices, the addition can be heavy, very heavy. Since the decision has not yet been taken and since different theses are opposed within the police, as we have seen in the media, I urge you to take the time to meet with the investigating magistrates specializing in financial crime. They can provide you with relevant advice in this area, which can inform you in the decision you need to make. I repeat, we are facing a considerable challenge both in terms of justice and in the defence of our vital public financial interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u68	Mr President, Minister, two weeks ago Parliament voted on the first part of the police pension file, led by your colleague Bacquelaine, Minister of Pensions. I remember hearing you explain your wish to quickly enter into an agreement with the unions on the second aspect of the case, namely that of the transitional end-of-career scheme. Where are we today? Only one union approved, and subject to conditions, the proposed end-of-care plan. This union is in fact asking for amendments and assurances as part of the finalisation of the texts. The other unions were very clear in their disagreement. A clear mandate has been given to oppose a proposal that does not meet the concept of a "sustainable solution". A "protocol of disagreement" has been drafted to reject proposals that will lead to further discrimination, create instability on the police pension system and generate a sense of insecurity in the function of CALOG. This shows that there is currently not a sufficient basis for a concerted solution. I would therefore like to hear your position and what method are you going to use and what agenda will be yours to break the deadlock?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u69	Mr Demeyer, I do not have an agenda to break the deadlock because there is no impasse. One of the two large representative unions approved the proposal submitted to them by a large majority (two-thirds). We are currently finalizing the texts and will submit them to administrative and budgetary control and other formalities. Thus, in accordance with the government agreement, we will have a transitional period that offers legal certainty to the police officers concerned and we will be able to start the global debate on the major pension reform. I would like to add one thing. The big problem for the unions is that a temporary, intermediate measure does not regulate the definitive police regime. It's their great criticism. From the beginning, I said that I could not solve this problem before the global debate on major pension reform. They keep insisting on that when I can't move on that point. For the intermediate regime, we have a solution, we have proposals to make. I am convinced that even if it were attacked in court, it will hold the road. Prior to 2011, before the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the difference between the lowest pension age and the highest pension age was greater than today with this new regulation. There was also a debate in the Constitutional Court at the time. I think we have improved and enlightened the situation. In the major pension reform debate, we will also discuss security professionals, which includes police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u70	Minister, in the fight against border crime, the presence of a performing camera network is of great importance. That network will speed up the identification and identification of the escape routes. The governor of West Flanders, Mr Decaluwé, had a camera plan drawn up in his province, which is also mine. During a conference last year in Komen, in the presence of the governors of West Flanders and Hainaut, your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, wanted to follow the example of West Flanders and said that in the long run a camera plan had to be implemented along the entire French-Belgian border, from De Panne to Aubange. For the Western Flemish police zones, your predecessor has already drawn up a grant regulation of up to 50 000 euros. Afterwards, that would also happen for the police zones of Hainaut. Where is the camera plan in West Flanders and Hainaut? I'm not talking about the area until Aubange. How much federal resources have already been invested in the camera plan in West Flanders and Hainaut? What are the intentions for the camera plan in the following years of this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u71	Mr Vermeulen, this is the state of play on the camera plan. For West Flanders: police zone West Coast eight fixed and one mobile ANPR; police zone Spoorkin zero camera.; police zone Arro Yeper three mobile ANPR camera.; police zone Boundary nine fixed camera.; police zone Vlas......................................................................................................................................................................... For Hainaut: police zone Comines-Warneton three mobile ANPR cameras; in the police zone Ath four cameras on vehicles and their intention to install them on each new police vehicle; that is ambitious. In the police zone Mons-Quévy there is a project for study. The federal funds allocated to the eligible area of EUR 50 000 will certainly not cover the entire investment in those areas. It can therefore be claimed that the subsidies were fully used. Further investment will also depend on possible subsidies and the approval of the respective police councils. That is the case for West Flanders. In Hainaut no federal funds were invested yet. The plan is currently under investigation. I will come back to that in a moment. As for the intentions for the coming years, the governor wishes to realize the West Flemish ANPR camera network. However, the pace at which this can happen is strongly determined by the savings rounds, which are also a fact for the local police. The governor is therefore looking for subsidies at national and European level for the extension to 21 ANPR cameras in the West Coast police zone and for the management of the cameras still to be installed in the Spoorkin police zone. The police zone Arro Yeper will soon start the activation of three fixed ANPR cameras. There are two more on the schedule for 2016. As far as Hainaut is concerned, the governor has taken the initiative to draw up a contingency plan for camera surveillance. He also wants a strategic analysis of the border issue as a whole. The initiatives are currently under way. The provinces of West Flanders and Hainaut have worked together with France since the colloquium held in Comines-Warneton in April 2014. The next colloquium will be held shortly in Kortrijk, in November. Later, another one will follow in France. I decide. I welcome the positive cooperation in the cross-border region. On 2 June I will visit the province of West Flanders and visit the governor and the federal services located in the province. The West-Flemish ANPR camera network will certainly be an important topic on my visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u72	Thank you, Minister. I hope you will indeed see many positive things when you visit the beautiful North Sea province.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-27-54-commissie-ic183x.u73	I can inform you that the letter that has just been mentioned has been brought in. The letter was signed by myself and Mr Thiébaut. That letter can now be sent to the French assembly.
