ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u3	Mr President, I intend not to repeat in plenary the detailed discussions we have had in committee. I am not going to discuss the measures one by one, applaud them here and there and fill them here and there. I'm not gonna start with that. I would like to talk about the political choices that are being made. The tax shift is a good example of that. That is the essence of the story, of what should be a debate in plenary. I repeat, I was excited about this a moment ago, that a tax shift should be a shift of charges which should lead to a reduction in the burden on labour, both for the companies and for the people who work. That is an absolute priority for us. This priority was also included in our electoral programme and was already set in motion by the previous Di Rupo government with the Competitiveness Pact. The real discussion is not about the fact that the burden has to be reduced. I think there is great consensus on this in the hemisphere. The question is, how are we going to pay for this? The reduction of labour costs must be paid for by something. Hence a shift from one thing to another. I think it is safe to say that the differences between the majority and the opposition are mainly there. I think it is also a bit about the way in which the cuts in charges are made. This government has chosen to grant the general reduction of charges from 33% to 25% in general to all companies. We have a feeling that it would have been better to focus on certain sectors if the aim and ambition are to help those sectors which are struggling in international competition. There are sectors today that have no problem in international competition. Let me take the chemical and IT sectors as an example. Those are sectors that are doing very well. I believe that the reduction in the burden, which also goes to those sectors, is a reduction in the burden which, for that other objective, namely to create more jobs, is ultimately a problem. So we could have done more for the companies, businesses and sectors that are really hurt in international competition today. It's a missed opportunity. We're talking about the tax shift all the time. However, the majority is trying to limit the discussion to the taxation itself and the shift there, while the opposition often talks about a more global shift, which I will call the purchasing power shift, because that is what it is really about. Few people are interested in a tax reduction, if at the same time it appears that on the other hand the invoices simply go up. People are interested in what they have as disposable income to meet their needs and to provide a little luxury. I understand the government prefers to talk about the tax shift in the narrow sense of the word. In the meantime, however, the man and woman in the street see that this is happening in order to finance the reduction of costs. The tax shift is in itself a missed opportunity, in terms of funding. A lot of measures have been taken, on the paying side, which affect a lot of people in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u4	You say that as far as the reduction of charges is concerned, you actually agree with the government... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u5	Mr Vanvelthoven has just said that the reduction is not a problem, but that the financing of the reduction is the real problem. I'm gonna take a look...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u7	I'm not going to repeat myself. I expect everyone to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u8	Let us talk about financing, if there is the problem. You blame a number of parties for the lack of capital tax. Tax shift 1 and 2 is about 7.2 billion euros. You can claim that the first one was yours, but it wasn't funded. The idea was that the next government should lower it. There was no funding against it either. We are talking about financing a total of EUR 7.2 billion. I assume that there would be no EUR 7.2 billion capital gains tax on this, but what amount do you have in mind so that it would have been in balance for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u9	Let me refer to a few sources that make things clear. When we talk about financing, a very important part, EUR 4 to 6 billion, could have been financed by capital gains tax, an added value tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u10	Of the 7.2 billion euros funding for tax shift 1 and 2 would have come between 4 and 6 billion euros of capital tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u11	If the choice of capital gains tax had been made, as calculated by the Supreme Court of Finance and thus not the study centre of sp.a or PS, that would not only have been an important source of financing for the tax shift, but above all a much fairer distribution of that funding. There are other sources. They're in your party. I still have the quotes from the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u12	I asked what the alternative was and how much. I know what quotes you'll bring. You're welcome to repeat them, but I think we've already had them. I don't need to make your statement. You're welcome to repeat the quotes. The question was just how much of the 7.2 billion euros you think should come out of the capital tax. I have recorded EUR 4 to 6 billion. That was my question and I received a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u13	It's a little laughable. I understand that CD&V is trying to shift focus. I'll give you quotes, not because it pleases me, but because it annoys me. I start with two quotes dating from the start of the exercise of the Minister of Finance, a good year ago. Vice Prime Minister Kris Peeters then said quite generally: "People expect us to demand an effort from the capabilities as well." You will probably argue that that has indeed happened. Mr Verherstraeten said in November: 'It is a public secret that we are in favour of a capital gain tax'. In all honesty, that was a secret to me. There was nothing public about it, because it's not mentioned anywhere in the CD&V election program that I checked. It doesn't say anything. Therefore, there was no public secret; it was a total surprise at that time that CD&V was suddenly the main defender of a capital gain tax or an added value tax. Verherstraeten also said: "If the very great powers spring from the dance, it is unjust. You remember that was shortly after the national demonstration. At that time CD&V was very much attracted by the 120 000 protesters, who came to the streets for fair taxes, and by the executions from the ACV and the ACW. Those statements were, of course, part of that. The Minister of Finance then took the time he had to take. At the end of July there was the big announcement: the tax shift was finally there. The strange thing is that the statements made by some CD&Vs at that time were simply tightening up. I will quote a few people who are very bravely absent today. Mrs Lanjri said in announcing what we are going to vote on today and what nothing has been said since then: 'People accept that these are difficult times provided you have a fair policy, but this tax shift' is not fair and unbalanced. Our limit has been exceeded. I still want to be able to look in the mirror. Mr Vercamer, who is also very bravely absent today, said: "The disappointment is great. It is true that the wealthy remain out of sight, and that such measures will indeed be adopted today, and that 'is a missed opportunity'. There is also another federal MEP of CD&V, who is not mentioned by name, I suspect it is none of the previous Members, whom I have quoted, and also one of the many absentees now. There is a soil and we cannot continue to undergo it. Then we'll have to do it without us. That was about the tax shift you're going to approve today. I'm comparing that to a divorce. That's a decision you won't make from today to tomorrow, but if it doesn't work out, you have to get out. I'll give you another quote from the president of CD&V. Mr Beke wanted to defend the proposed tax shift at some point. He said, not uninterestingly: "I have no difficulty admitting that there are a number of things that are not in it either - so far I understand him, but then he adds "for reasons that are still incomprehensible to me." I don't understand. It is a majority party, an important party that has made a point of capital gains tax for a whole year, the group is upset because it finds it unbalanced, and the President admits not to be able to bring in everything, but at the same time he wonders that he still doesn't know why. Colleagues of the CD&V Group, an illustrious chairman of your party has once accused other parties in a full election campaign: Who still believes these people? You will have to ask yourself this question in the light of the quotes and the vote announced later. Of course I have to give you some good advice, because you are much wiser than I am when it comes to what the direction of CD&V should be. Anyway, if you play games with the people that way, they won't believe you anymore. Last week I heard a member of your group, who is also absent, explain that there should be a third tax shift. That's the same story, I suppose. You will come again with the capital gains tax, for the third time. What the previous governments failed to achieve, because you were against it and because it was not a subject of the election campaign and not part of your electoral programme, you will now, for the third time, face the wall. I remember very well that Mr Dewael here said at one point that one thing was clear in the government: Open Vld would never approve a capital gain tax; the party would certainly not approve in a government without socialists what it has always stopped with socialists in the government. So don't tell me you'll try that again. The smallest party in the majority says njet and we know that CD&V is going to lie down. That is the reality today, and that actually makes me a little angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u14	Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to say two things. Firstly, our group continues to regret that there is a missing link in the tax shift, namely the added value tax. That's what I called it. Anyone can draw a picture of how the government negotiations have been conducted. In any case, we defended the agreement. Secondly, I was chairman of the CD&V working group on the tax shift. I have been offered few presidencies in my life. This has happened twice: the chair of the Committee on Finance and the Budget in the Chamber and of the working group on the tax shift. We have been discussing it for months. The concept of value added tax, as we have finally described it, concerned only the sale of shares. This is the so-called 'Coucketak', which applies when selling his business and the proceeds from it reach his income and do not remain in the company. From the outset, we said that we would not tax historical added value if we introduced an added value tax. Should we approve the value added tax according to CD&V today, it would start on 1 January 2016. It would then cover the added value that would be realised in 2017, 2018 and 2019. In addition, we have placed a kind of floor, in the sense that the tax should not apply to SMEs because we did not want to limit the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. You say, Mr Vanvelthoven, that the tax shift must be financed by a kind of capital tax that you believe would be worth at least EUR 4 to 6 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u15	That's what the Supreme Court of Finance says.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u16	At 3 years, with our definition of an added value tax, we reached EUR 250 million. According to experts, that was well calculated. After 5 to 6 years, we could have gone above EUR 500 million. It is an illusion to think that a tax shift of EUR 8 billion can be financed with an added value tax on shares, the so-called Coucke tax with all the restrictions I have mentioned. We continue to regret that this is not being discussed. I will not comment on whether or not there should be a third tax shift. Mrs Smaers has said this, but I will not distance myself from it or judge it by its value. However, given the difficult budgetary situation we are facing in the next few years, I have not mentioned these figures for nothing, the debate on the distribution of efforts will in any case come back on the table. In the discussion on this point, Mr Deseyn said that the added value tax for a piece is also a symbolic tax if it is considered in the whole of the tax revenue of the State. Tax revenue amounts to around EUR 100 billion and this value added tax is estimated at EUR 250 million. But we do think that tax is necessary, socially. When selling large companies, we see that certain people receive a huge income that is absolutely not taxed if the money stays in the company. I am thinking, for example, of Luc Tack carrying out such operations. These are operations in which the amount is ultimately reinvested in the economy, and we absolutely do not want to touch it. I am thinking, for example, of an SME that is growing and achieving added value or added value. What we are seeing, however, are operations that I will not mention by name. However, the added value tax is very limited. According to the experts, in five to six years' time this could yield EUR 300 or 400 million. Again, for us, the absence of an added value tax is a missing link, but I do not agree with you when you say that an added value tax can fully finance the tax shift. It is possible if, like the Greens, although Mr Gilkinet always denies it, you would be using a tax drift. If we follow their proposals, we will indeed get EUR 4 billion from the assets, but on further dissection it appears that everyone who owns a house worth more than EUR 250 000 will have to pay 25% of taxes as a kind of property tax. I could really call that a tax drift. Mr Vanvelthoven, I do not really know what you mean by the EUR 4 billion, because you have not answered Mr Bogaert's questions. If you want to get EUR 4 billion out of the assets, then small assets must also be tackled. You will never achieve that EUR 4 billion by means of proposals such as Mr Van Hees's millionaire tax, which is already being called upon to defend that millionaire tax. That discussion must be looked at in a certain perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u17	Mr President, I would like to add a number of elements to the debate. I am very pleased that we have now clarified the alternative of a capital tax of EUR 4 billion to EUR 6 billion, which would be proposed by the sp.a. You should look at the countries that already have such a capital tax, such as France, and at the revenues from it. The proceeds are also EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u18	Mr Bogaert, you are talking about a capital tax. I'm talking about a capital gain tax. Let me correct you for a moment. You compare apples to pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u19	Mr Vanvelthoven, let me speak first. Let us each speak in turn. In France, capital taxes raise EUR 6 billion. France is a country that is a few times larger than Belgium. I am concerned that your proposal is unrealistic. You should also look at the capital tax in France, not only at the absolute numbers but also at the frequency distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u20	We have no proposal for a capital tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u21	The frequency distribution of that load is very interesting. You will find that the amounts paid are very diverse. Left and left, the big billionaires want to take out hundreds of millions of euros per person. However, when we look at the frequency distribution of capital taxes, we see that they are amounts of EUR 1 000, EUR 2 000, EUR 3 000 and EUR 4 000, and then they are completely cut off. In other words, you will very quickly arrive at a middle class tax, when you charge the capital or capital gains tax to the extent and extent that you, Ecolo-Green and, not to mention, PTB put forward. Of course, there must be clarity about this. Are you looking for a capital tax that tries to top off the top 1% of the population, which I understand, or are you meeting the middle class, who also has the ambition to acquire a house and have his children studied further? There is, of course, a substantial difference between these two options. While we are talking about certain taxes, you have a serious gap in your financing of the tax shift. I am therefore curious about the other measures that have fallen off the radar. What's your opinion on that? Let me give you an example. We are increasing excise duties on diesel, which is not an obvious choice. It's an ecologically good choice, though. It is an externality that comes in the prices and something that Green and Ecolo have proposed. However, I wonder whether the sp.a is in favour of this. Is the PS in favour of it? I have heard in committee that the PS is of the opinion that it is not a good choice. I do not know whether a representative of the PS is present who can speak on this matter and that it is not a good idea to increase excise duties to the extent that we do so, to give an ecological dimension to the tax shift. These are relevant questions, which should be answered correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u22	Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank my colleagues on the CD&V for questioning Mr. Vanvelthoven. Mr Bogaert, we do not have the same definition of the middle class. The Chairman of the Finance Committee likes to caricature our proposal. So I will repeat what I said in committee. We fully assume our position that there is a need for a tax shift and a better contribution of capital income that has only increased over the last 20 years to the detriment of labour income. Our alternative budget does provide for a significant contribution, but a gross contribution. Indeed, we are abolishing a series of capital taxes. We're simplifying the system. This leads to substantial additional revenue – which we assume – to finance social security, reduce the cost of work by focusing on the lowest wages, which you do not do. I shall expand on this point later. Not all of these objectives are being met with the tax shift proposal before us. Mr Bogaert, you say that the increase in excise duties is the result of ecological intentions. If this is the case, you must use the amounts obtained from this increase to refinance alternatives to the car, for example rail. That is what we are asking for: a modal shift to reduce the number of cars on the road, which create traffic jams and which have a huge economic cost. You have to work on the issue of company cars to give our fellow citizens a real salary rather than a car. A car can be left to them if they need it to work, but if they don't, they have to be paid. You also forget this element. So don't try to make it look like you're doing ecology because you've increased the excises a little bit – the main aim of which is to reduce the balance to be financed with the tax shift – or to make us bear the responsibility for what you're doing half-way. Refinance, for example, SNCB, and we will support you! I refer here to the excellent proposals of my colleagues, Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u23	Mr Vanvelthoven, we are at the heart of the debate on what tax shift should have been. Many trade unionists believed in tax shift because of this. The question is whether the richest should be made to contribute. Mr. Van Rompuy suggests taking a few small symbolic measures, but that's not what will earn a lot of money. That is what the debate is all about! Are we taking symbolic measures, such as a speculation tax that pays 34 million euros, or are we taking real steps to get the money where it is? In this respect, two avenues emerged: a tax on wealth, i.e. a tax on millionaires, following the model of the tax deposited by the PTB, which would bring in 8 billion euros. This measure would really target the 1 per cent of the richest population, not the middle class, which contributes 90 per cent to this tax. The other track is equity gains. Thus, compared to the 34 million that this speculation tax will bring, net capital gains on shares to corporate tax, cost public finances 2 billion a year. So, 8 billion for the tax of millionaires and 2 billion just for the capital gains on corporate taxes, not to mention natural persons, these are taxes that the majority of citizens can appreciate! In France, the tax on wealth earns 6 billion, because for years successive governments have put niches on this tax to empty it from its substance, while maintaining the facade, because it is feared to question it. In fact, Chirac, at one time, had lost the presidential elections because he had returned to the tax on wealth. With an effective tax on wealth, there is a way to earn money. Why? Because a fortune of 420 billion euros is in the hands of 1% of the richest population. By targeting this population, which is accumulating $420 billion, there is a way to get a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u24	Mr President, I notice that people from CD&V, and especially Mr Bogaert every time it becomes difficult for CD&V, try to shift the discussion to something where they think they can make a point, and then also want to put things in our mouths that have not been said at all. Mr Bogaert just referred to the property tax in France. We have never said that we are in favour of capital taxes, but we are in favour of capital gains taxes. May I also say, Mr Bogaert, that Belgium is the only country, especially in the euro area, that does not have it. We are also concerned that a euro is a euro. Anyone who makes money with work will be charged. We think it is only fair that someone who makes money by selling something should also be taxed. As Mr Vanvelthoven has just said, this is a calculation of the Supreme Court of Finance, not of the PS study service, the sp.a study service or anyone else. The Supreme Court of Finance has calculated that EUR 6 billion. Besides, there is another calculation, the University of Leuven has also made a calculation in this respect. It amounts to about EUR 5.5 billion. This whole thing is for information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u25	I'll get that study from the Supreme Court of Finance right away on my desk. It is about all kinds of gains, including in the real estate sector. It is not just about the sale of shares, but also about bonds and all kinds of capital gains that are held in the portfolio and that end up in people's income. If this is taxed at 25%, according to the Supreme Court of Finance, an amount of EUR 4 billion will be obtained. CD&V has always talked about the sale of shares and then only for large companies and then only if it gets into people's income and is not reinvested in other companies. Then look at the taxable basis for that kind of added value taxes. I did not know either, and it is one of the conclusions of our working group that money will have to be found in a different way. That is how we ended up with the increase in the real-estate levy. The Cayman tax has also come back, because these are also capital gains taxes. I'll get the study from the Supreme Court of Finance in a moment. Let me read to you what the financing of capital gains tax means.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u26	You claim we have no property tax, Mrs. Temmerman. I would just like to point out that we have a lot of capital taxes. We have registration rights, gift rights, inheritance taxes and the movable and immovable withholding tax. If you count them all together, then we come, for the level of taxes on capital, to the third place in Europe. You have to be honest with yourself. You know that abilities are very volatile and that ultimately the middle class would be taxed. The highest classes will always find a way out of paying that tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u27	The taxes you quote (registration fees, inheritance fees) are taxes on the transfer of assets. These are not taxes on wealth. These are two different things. There can be a debate on the relevance of registration rights. It is a very old tax that dates back to the time when the only thing that was taxed was land property. Succession rights may respond to a concern that is whether it is legitimate for people to be rich by birth and whether, in the event of transmission due to death, a levy should not be made to redistribute. These are quite interesting philosophical discussions. Another debate is the tax on assets, solidarity contributions on assets. This does not concern the transmission of heritage. This concerns the accumulation of wealth. These are therefore debates of a completely different nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u28	In relation to this habit of going to see what is said in election programs and reality, as we have just done with the CD&V, I would like to point out to you that we have each one of the objectives and that we have each one of the ideals. We try to carry them out, but we must also take into account the realities. The proof is that in the previous government you had to lead a right-wing policy and we see the results now: it is the PTB that goes up. You must have done it. We've been pursuing a right-wing policy. We haven't gone far enough yet, that's why now we're happy to do it without you. But you must have done it. You are also confronted with realities. So we all do what we can and try to do as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u29	Mr Piedboeuf, you made three great promises: no index jumps, no postponement of the legal pension age to 67 and no increase in VAT on electricity. You failed on your three great promises. You can tell what you want! You have done your whole campaign on this and, today, what you are inflicting on the population is an increase in the VAT on electricity, an index jump and an increase in the pension age to 67. Stop making projections on others! Assum how you do not respect your own commitments!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u30	Mr President, we have witnessed a fine trick in this debate. CD&V is addressed to their constantly changing views and to the fact that they do not retrieve what they proclaim. Eric Van Rompuy fills the first fifteen minutes with talking about his own working group, although otherwise we have nothing to do with that. After that, he suddenly mentions two names of people who react, and in that way the focus on CD&V has been removed. I have to admit, this is nicely done. What made me smile was that at some point he referred to the tax drive of the greens. I am thinking, for example, of increasing VAT on electricity and excise duties on tobacco, diesel and alcohol. I am thinking, for example, of introducing a sugar tax or increasing corporation tax on intercommunals. The tax drift is clearly on your side! I am not talking about the invoicing drive that prevails in the same parties in the Flemish Parliament. In this context, I am thinking of an increase in the rates at De Lijn, of the fees for enrolment for the colleges, of the care premium, of the water bill and of the electricity bill. It's a bit about being blamed for other people's tax drive. That's why I had to smile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u31	Mr Vanvelthoven, this is very demagogic. During this morning's debate on the tax shift, you said that the socialists are in favour of the tax cuts, even the PS, because the socialists, that is one big family. You said that all the socialists support these cuts. However, during the debate on funding, you are sorry that the fees are being increased. Well, at some point, you have to choose a camp. Are you really in favour of this tax shift? Without funding and with a budget in the danger zone, we have to do something at some point. The debate then focused on taxation and then the PS pointed to the desirability of a capital gain tax. The Court of Auditors has calculated what Mr Laaouej's proposal would mean for the budget, namely EUR 800 million. This means that there is still a great deal to be financed to reach the 7.2 billion euros of the first and second tax shift. You claim that a capital gain tax would raise EUR 4 billion. This means that funding of EUR 3.2 billion still needs to be sought. You cannot at the same time be in favour of a reduction in the burden on businesses and families, but of an increase in taxes and excise duties, for example on diesel. I think this is a very curious reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u32	Not at all! You're telling the truth! The Court of Auditors did not mention 800 million. She first spoke of a low range of 700 million and 2.2 billion depending on other modalities. The report of the Supreme Council of Finance gives you a margin of up to €4 billion if you want a fairer tax on capital income. With this, you have enough money to finance a tax reduction on working income. In other words, you could have made a tax reform that reduced the tax on labour income from 4 billion to 5 billion, which you could have financed with a fairer tax on capital income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u33	Mr Bogaert and Mr Van Rompuy, when the Greens opt for certain taxes, you call that tax drift, but if you are defending other taxes here, that is no longer a tax drift. It is not right to bring things forward in this way. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u34	They propose to increase other taxes, which is also a tax shift but in a different way than yours. We also have other proposals for a shift, where we focus on things that the man in the street is convinced to be crooked. I am thinking, for example, of value added tax and tax fraud. I welcome the Minister of Finance's plan, but in this discussion I feel that the majority is less pleased with it. However, I will not go into that now. Look at what was actually achieved under the previous government, even if it was not in the budget. Well, if you follow that path further, you'll be funded part of your shift. Another problem is that the multinationals pay scandalously little tax today. You know that, too. Our SMEs pay ten times more taxes than the multinationals. Do something about that, go get some of your funding there. The OECD, though not the Socialist think tank, puts forward two elements that could have been important to you. Firstly, that there should be an added value tax on shares in Belgium, but that is something you are putting aside. I'll get back to you on that. Secondly, I am not talking about the commercial vehicles but about the payroll cars, and that something must be done about them, but you are not doing anything about them either. Those are all things that could have financed the shift in a much more honest way than today. That is what I said earlier, that is the difference between the Socialists and this right-wing majority, whether you like to hear it or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u35	Mr President, I am glad that we can have another debate with Mr Bogaert because that was a while ago, at least as far as I am concerned. Mr Bogaert, I think we can agree that the population has long been looking forward to this tax shift. It would happen to your coalition, with the power of change. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u36	You're part of the coalition, aren't you? I certainly hope so. What finally came out of the bus, Mr Bogaert, is rather thin. People wanted an effective reduction in the burden of wages but, of course, this had to be a reduction in the cost of the lowest wages, in order to achieve the most results in the most labour-intensive sectors. A capital gain tax will not come to you. I don't understand why, because that was in the CD&V election programme, which wanted to make progress on this. There's no capital gains tax. What we do see is that the middle class and the people who are already struggling are being saddled with more and more invoices. I admit that it is very slow; it is not a putsch or a bank robbery, but it is bit by bit. VAT is increased, invoices are raised, people in Flanders are saddled with higher water bills, school leaving costs more, tuition fees for universities are increased, etc. It all accumulates, but very little is happening on the side where efforts should be made, namely with the millions of assets in this country, which do not contribute enough compared to abroad. We are in very good company, because your Vice-President says exactly the same thing. Mr Vanvelthoven, I am not the only one who has read the statements. The Vice-President of CD&V is also not satisfied with this tax shift. Mr Bogaert, perhaps you should consult with your Vice-President to determine what is actually the CD&V position on this tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u37	I have now reached the document of the Supreme Court of Finance of August 2014 to which Mr Vanvelthoven refers. Indeed, they come to a budgetary return of EUR 4 billion or 1 GNP point. You should read the definition, Mrs. Temmerman. This concerns a uniform tax on savings income, a uniform tax on different forms of savings income, income from movable and immovable property and capital gains, including on movable and immovable property. This reform does indeed bring EUR 4 billion, but that is of course quite different from what we were talking about, in particular the value added tax on the sale of companies on shares. I added my file, too. I look at the position we have taken on the value added tax. Our position is not retroactivity, so it is not a tax on historical gains but only on the added value achieved, so it is not a fictional added value. Deductions must be deductible. Work on a withholding tax should be carried out at the most. We are also asking for a foot exemption, especially in the long term, in order to avoid SMEs. This was also the position taken by other parties, including the N-VA. Mr Vuye also said that it should not be at the expense of spin-offs and SMEs. At that time, we took a very clear position which defines this added value. I do not think that your party is even in favour of making a globalisation of all savings income, in order to take a uniform tax of 25% on income from movable and immovable savings and the capital gains from movable and immovable property, which means that we will get the EUR 4 billion. I still regret that we have not been able to achieve this, because I think that this added value tax is justified, also from a social point of view, after everything that has happened. My party defended that, too. That wasn't taken. I'm not gonna tell you who or what's responsible for that. Those days are over. Sooner or later, that discussion will come back to you. So don't think, that's the point Mr Bogaert has made, that you're going to get EUR 4 billion out of the capital gains tax. If 500 million euros are made out of them within this and six or seven years, they will have worked well and worked well. It depends on how many companies are being sold, because the Coucketaksen will not pay so much every year. That depends on the circumstances. There's a lot of demagogy being sold here. Excuse me. I may exaggerate when I blame Green tax drift, but I have reread your text, Mr Gilkinet. You want to raise a total of EUR 8 billion in taxes, of which EUR 4 billion from the assets. So you want 12 billion euros in gross. I have just looked at the text you put forward here last year. Indeed, you deduct inheritance taxes and registration duties, and so on. It's like they don't have income-sharing effects, too. If you abolish all inheritance taxes, who will benefit the most? The higher incomes, the people who now pay a lot of inheritance taxes. If you abolish the registration fees, the people who sell houses will win. Mr Vanvelthoven, I just want to say that you are trying to kill us, excuse me, with an one-liner and with a few quotes, when this is a fundamental social and economic debate. Surely I have the right to say here what kind of opinion we have adopted and what type of taxation we are talking about? We have clearly chosen a particular option, which is absolutely not... You started by saying: here is a calculation of the Supreme Court of Finance: EUR 4 billion. It's not about that. This EUR 4 billion has to do with a completely different basis of support for your taxes. I am sure that when you submit this to your constituents...... a uniform tax on savings income, movable and immovable property, as well as the added value, and then you will also have to involve SMEs.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u38	Mr Van Rompuy, we too have read the report of the Supreme Council of Finance; you are not the only one! When they say 4 billion, they are from a minimalist point of view because they only identify movable income, within the meaning of the Income Tax Code. Do you know that on stock options, the flow amounts to €2 billion a year? Imagine making the gains from options stocks subject to the marginal rate of PPI. With this alone, you could earn a recipe of more than a billion euros. For the rest, if you want to broaden the debate and talk about the income of capital in general, in an economic approach, it is not just the income of movables within the meaning of the Tax Code, but the profits of companies. Here we all agree to make the difference between those withdrawn by SMEs and large companies whose real tax rate is between 14 and 16 % because they fill up a whole series of tax niches - notional interest, deductible dividends, I pass and the best! That is why, under the previous government, with you, we were able to obtain the fairness tax which unfortunately is legally disputed and which did not go far enough! That is also why we were advocating for a minimum corporate tax that would increase the share of capital income tax. The figure of 4 billion is therefore minimalist. It only targets certain things. We could go look a lot more. Under the previous government, of which you were a member, you never contradicted that figure. We went to look for 7 billion euros on the income of capital. Income taxes can be reduced by moving them on the broad-based capital base. This could be reinforced by a more effective fight against tax evasion. It's just a matter of political will, which you lost, when you might have had it a little while we were in the same government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u39	I give the floor again to Mr Vanvelthoven, who has been speaking for about an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u40	Mr President, I am indeed working for almost an hour, of which half an hour has been followed by two CD&V people, who have mainly talked about their own programme that they have not implemented and about the programme of others they do not agree with. That's where we went for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u41	You talked for zero minutes about how you'd do it. (...) Mrs Kitir, where will you get the EUR 8 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u42	Mr Van Rompuy, if you had stayed here, you would know, because I have just explained to Mr Bogaert what we would have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u43	I had to get a document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u44	If you find my speech interesting enough, you should have stayed. I would like to say one more thing about the added value tax. They act like they're hitting the middle class. Of course, that is not the case. Who owns shares in Belgium? The majority of shares, almost 95%, are held by the high income category, which represents only 10% of income. Within that 10 % the stock holding is still concentrated at 1 %. So the threat that this would affect the middle class is bullshit. I reviewed the OECD report on the added value tax in other OECD countries, the richest countries in the world. In Belgium, New Zealand, South Korea and Switzerland, capital gains on shares are fully exempted. It's just not okay that the sale of shares is completely exempt. So many other countries have an added value tax today. Greece had to introduce them in 2013 under European pressure, but this is not what is needed. Germany, the engine of the European economy, has introduced an added value tax, but here we do not think this should be done. The Open Vld opposes it, but is correct about it. The N-VA opposes it, but is also correct about it. Only CD&V keeps shouting that it wants an added value tax, but apparently it is not important enough to go to a big war for it. Mr President, at the outset I said that these are political choices and differences of opinion. We must make political choices. In addition to the tax shift, I would like to mention two others that have to do with this. I have already raised it in committee. There's a file on the table today, which I still don't know how the CD&V, N-VA and Open Vld look at. That's the banking secret. As of 2017, there is an international agreement that financial institutions must provide Belgians' financial data to the Belgian tax authorities. Today is the fourth time I have asked you, Minister, when the government will decide on this so that Belgian financial institutions will automatically deliver Belgian financial data to the tax authorities. I see you shaking no. That's obvious. However, I do not understand why the government does not want to do so. When it comes to the wage data of all of us, we think that is normal, because they can be delivered directly to the tax authorities. However, when it comes to financial data, the reaction is hesitant. That is why I would have liked to know, including from the CD&V Group, how this is thought. Will we simply ignore what is currently happening at international level? Don't you want to make things easy for the tax authorities? We are in favour of total transparency for the tax authorities in this dossier and I hope that the same applies to this majority, or at least to CD&V. One last point I would like to raise has already been raised in committee. It is about reducing the burden on local authorities, or rather the non-burden reduction for local authorities. That too is an ideological choice. Today we see that this government, like the government at Flemish level, is constantly choosing to make it difficult for the local government. For example, we had a discussion on corporate tax on intercommunals. It was argued that it would distort competition if companies had to pay corporate tax and not intercommunals. However, I am referring to municipalities which work together in an intercommunal unit, simply to carry out a purely public task together and in which there is no competition with the private sector. I find it scandalous if those municipalities in these intercommunal now have to pay corporate taxes. This has nothing to do with an element of distortion of competition, but this government has pushed that measure through, including CD&V at the helm. Now we get the reverse in relation to the charge reduction from 33 % to 25 %. I do not understand why people working in government should be paid higher social and tax charges than those working in the private sector. I have given the example of the operation of a swimming pool. Fortunately, there are still some municipalities that think it is important that there is a swimming pool available for the inhabitants. Now we will simply find that the staff employed in that municipal swimming pool is more expensive than the staff employed in a private swimming pool. That's just not right. There is an ideological agenda behind this, and I very much regret that. Today, in this context, we hear from the media that Flanders will decide, or at least proposes, that transport company De Lijn only serves the broad lines between cities and municipalities. Everything else will have to be done by the private sector, like taxi companies. The people who need public transport are now people who do not have a lot of money and who do not have two cars at the door. These people will no longer be able to rely on a consolidated system of public transport, but they will now have to pay an expensive taxi. It appears that CD&V also chooses to break down public service obligations at the expense of ordinary people. This is also what CD&V seems to be in favour of: the rejection of public service at the expense of ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been written and talked about the tax shift, which has been going on for months. Fortunately, the first part had already been carried out and the second part of the tax shift has now been put to the vote for us on the benches. We've been looking forward to it for a long time. I admit, it hasn't been easy. I would therefore like once again to thank both the majority and opposition colleagues for their constructive cooperation over the last few weeks, particularly with regard to this draft law. This will enable the reduction of charges to enter into force on 1 January. Today's tax shift is one of the biggest fiscal reforms since 1963: the government reduces labour costs by EUR 8 billion. Also new is that this time we offer a perspective for a period of five years. We're looking at the long term, 2015-2020, and we're not taking another short-term measure, no, we have a perspective for five years. We have heard it several times here today about the tax shift: on the one hand, charges are reduced, but on the other hand, there are increases. That's exactly a shift now. A tax shift is a shift in the tax burden. So, on the one hand, the burden, here the burden of labour, will be reduced. Mr Temmerman has said it many times: we all want to reduce the burden on labour to create more jobs. Everyone agrees with that. If we reduce the burden, we must of course, on the other hand, seek additional income. The government has chosen to look for them in eco-taxality, in VAT and in capital. We have already seen a debate here today on how much money can be obtained in what field. The answer to this is different for each party. The majority has made a choice and the choice is before us today. The aim is, of course, to create jobs, attract investment and increase purchasing power. It makes sense, we want to make work pay. Mr Van Cauter has already indicated what work is, and I fully support that definition. We want to make work pay, but we also need to motivate people to get to work and even to stay at work. After all, often people will choose not to work when balancing work and not work on the basis of what they have left after tax. We do not want that anymore; we want to ensure that people make the choice to get to work and certainly to stay on. The High Employment Council in its October report on 18 000 additional jobs in 2016 could even increase to 94 000 in 2017. The National Bank then calculates 64 500 jobs by 2021. The Federal Planning Office will keep it at 45 000. These are different figures, but we do not have a glass ball; however, the three institutions agree that it is about a large number of new jobs. The government has opted for a balanced distribution of charges both for employers and for employees. The taxes on employees will be reduced, among other things, by the deletion of the 30% disc, a further increase in the working bonus and an increase in the flat-rate deductible costs, which we introduced earlier this year. It's just that people are finally gonna have a little bit more left over net. Work must be rewarding. Of course, we also have to take care of the employer. Thanks to wage cuts, the employer will pay a maximum of 25% of social contributions on top of gross wages. Together with the other measures we have already taken, such as the index jump and wage moderation, we must eliminate the labour cost handicap that has been built up since 1996. We prefer to turn that into a competitive advantage. Like I said, cooking costs money. We will reduce the burden on the employer and the employee and will have to seek income elsewhere. Non-work-related income makes the most important contribution to the financing of the tax shift, followed by eco-taxality and VAT. Non-work-related income includes measures to combat tax fraud, the introduction of a viewing tax and the increased withholding tax. There is also the eco-taxality. Consumption of diesel, tobacco and alcohol brings high costs to society and government in the long term. The government therefore opts for higher excise duties on those harmful products. It is also taxes that are less conducive to growth for an economy than taxes on labour. In the end, the user still has the choice to use or not buy those goods. Of course, it's only the user who pays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u46	Mrs Wouters, you have reached a very interesting part. You are trying to justify the higher invoice for the people. So you're working on your defense explanation. However, we could have avoided a number of invoices if you had had the courage to do something about the system of commercial vehicles in our country. You are making your account of our expenses and income. However, the system of commercial vehicles is a total aberration and can no longer be explained. That is not just what we say with Green and Ecolo. That is also a remark from the OECD. The cost for our country is between EUR 3 and EUR 4 billion, which is higher than the budget for SNCB. In the meantime, everyone is saying with common sense that we need to review and abolish the regulation of commercial vehicles. Nevertheless, you did not do that in the tax shift before, but the perfect time to really reform. Can you explain why you are holding on to that apparently, for you, sacred idea of commercial vehicles and of subsidising traffic jams in our country? In the meantime, that idea has been dismissed by everyone as a mistake and a bad idea. My question is addressed to you. It is also addressed to Open Vld and CD&V. You form a coalition together and have chosen to maintain that system, although it is unjust. It has also led to higher invoices for people, including the middle class. After all, the money you don't get from the company cars and from that little elite, you obviously have to get somewhere else. How can you defend that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u47	Mr De Vriendt, you know our position on this. First of all, we have to call a cat a cat. Commercial vehicles are very often used as payroll vehicles, as Mr Vanvelthoven has already mentioned. At present, we are still facing high pay costs. It is a first step to reduce the burden on labour. From the moment it is possible to choose between a net wage equal to the employer's salary and a salary car, a different choice can be made perfectly. Everyone, including at Flemish level, is working on the future in the context of the mobility budget, on which everyone is thinking. Everyone has to look to the future, too. At the moment, however, and as long as the burden on labour is still too high and the difference is still too great, we are still in favour of commercial vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u48	Mrs Wouters, there is no contradiction between the two. In fact, they're connected. If you could save EUR 4 billion on commercial vehicles, it would give you more financial space to reduce the burden on labour for everyone who works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u49	Nor is that the full EUR 4 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u50	You say that you are waiting for the system to be revised, until wage costs are further reduced. That's a strange argument, because both are linked together. You can further reduce the wage burden if you do something about the unfair system of commercial vehicles. For the sake of clarity, this is also the proposal that Ecolo-Groen has many times put on the table: using part of the revenue from the abolition of the company car system for a general reduction in the burden of wages, preferably aimed at the lowest wages. That's a solution for part of the financial puzzle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u51	It is naive to think that all commercial vehicles can be abolished. Certain cars are necessary, think of the cars for representatives. You should not be naive and think that the entire EUR 4 billion is just about salary cars. I believe that everything evolves when those costs are lower. People are now getting a paycheck on a paycheck. If they could choose to get that compensation through a net wage, many would say that they no longer need their salary car and would opt for the net wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u52	We are having a theoretical, intellectual discussion about what a possible tax shift might look like and how we could do something about the company car system. That's very interesting, but why didn't it happen now? There are colleagues who know better than I do how many months and years we have had this discussion about this tax shift. Meanwhile, the OECD reports, which show that the system of commercial vehicles can no longer be justified, lie on our offices. Why haven't they been used? Why isn't that in your tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u53	Mr De Vriendt, we did not make that choice. It is a choice that has been made at some point, what it is and what it is not. I understand your idea that we need to move towards a mobility budget, but you know our position on the burden of wages. The VAT, another tricky point. We have already discussed it a great deal today. We will reverse the temporary reduction in the VAT rate for electricity. It has already been shown that the aim of this reduction was largely to slow down the index evolution. However, this appears to have a much higher cost than originally estimated. I would also like to point out that so many years ago the PS raised the rate to 21%. At the end of the previous legislature it was temporarily reduced to 6%. We'll raise it to 21 % again. What are we doing here? We increase the VAT revenue ratio. This means that we are allowing fewer exemptions, less reduced rates and less administrative tolerances. Think of aesthetic interventions. In the countries around us there was even an even higher VAT rate. I would like to make it clear that we did not choose to do so. This reduction in charges, and this is important, I believe, is not a vest pocket operation. It is indeed a tax reduction. After all, the total tax reductions are greater than those of the new revenue. Of course, the rest must also be financed, and this is done by the government's redesign. The government needs to work more efficiently, and so does the government itself. We need to provide better services with less resources. In our view, this should be possible in a country with a government debt above 50% of gross domestic product in recent years. I would like to emphasise once again that the tax shift has been fully funded up to 2018. Recouping effects will make a positive contribution to fiscal consolidation. As Mr Van Cauter has already pointed out, we have been quite conservative in estimating these payback effects. Among other things, the National Bank estimates the payback effects much higher. I'm not going to look at all the measures separately anymore. I am convinced that all the issues have already been discussed today. We are very pleased that the government has been able to achieve such a large and far-reaching tax shift. Our group will therefore fully support this tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u54	Mr President, I have a very brief question. Does the N-VA support the CD&V Vice-President's plea, Griet Smaers, to introduce a third tax shift with more greening and more power taxation? What is your party's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u55	I believe that we are now applying a second tax shift. This measure will enter into force on 1 January. Now let this work properly and let us look at the results. If necessary, we can do a third tax shift, but first let us implement this second tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, at the outset, and as has been done, I would like to highlight some positive elements of the text before us, which we voted positively in committee. When it's good, you have to say it. We were seeking reform. Some of the elements of reform were supported. As the Finance Minister said yesterday in plenary session, in a somewhat depressed economic context – which for me is the consequence of the measures taken earlier and of a European context in which the right answers were not given to the financial and budgetary crisis – we must not stand by and try to do something. We have to act. But, of course, we have to do well. We do not agree with everything in this bill. I will then be able to detail it and propose alternatives. But I would like to point out that we are in favour of a reduction in the cost of employment, as long as it is directed first and foremost towards low and medium wages and provided that it is strictly compensated in terms of alternative income for social security. We are in favour of the contribution reduction measure for the self-employed, which was voted on in the Committee on the Economy, at the suggestion of Mr Borsus, even though the cost of this measure for the financing of the social security of the self-employed has not been offset, for example, by the introduction of a higher rate for the self-employed who earn large sums, a minimum increase, but which would allow the budget to remain in balance. We are in favour of a 6% reduction in VAT on school buildings. This is a measure that we have been asking for for a very long time. We must support our teaching, allow it to exercise in good material conditions, in energy efficient buildings. Needs are essential, especially in Brussels. My colleague Mr Jean-Marc Nollet worked hard on this during the previous Community legislature. We are in favour of the tax support measures for productive investments that have been voted for, but why not change the system of notional interests at the same time, which, in turn, is very expensive and not economically efficient? We have voted on the relevant articles. Mr Borsus, thank you for your presence because I have specific questions for you. It's good you're here. We are in favour of tax cuts for investments in high technology. We believe that our economy must indeed move towards value-added sectors. It is not just about reducing costs, the cost of employment, we must also choose a direction in which we will be performing tomorrow with sectors that are driving. We are also in favour of raising the tax-exempt quota to allow workers, especially low-wage workers, to have sufficient means of subsistence. The question we are asking ourselves is the following. Why not limit it to a certain level of pay? Nevertheless, we must be able to say and repeat it. We supported, by voting on the articles concerned in the Committees on Economy, Social Affairs and Finance, some of the measures of this tax shift. More generally, we were and are seeking as ecologists a tax shift. Many times in this plenary session on current issues, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were asked when they would move forward with this tax shift. At that time, we also relayed the impatience of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr. Van Rompuy, and others. This is a debate that we held in the previous Parliament with hearings in this joint committee with the Senate. There's been a lot of exciting auditions. Studies from the Supreme Council of Finance, for example, and other academies were presented to us. As ecologists, we have identified three objectives that should be those of a tax shift. The first objective was much debated before I went up to the rostrum. So I won't be very long on the subject. This is a transfer, in terms of tax revenues for the Belgian State, from income from labour to income from capital in order to try to return to a certain balance in relation to the evolution of our economy, the decrease in the relative share of income from labour in the wealth produced each year. This is a phenomenon that we have known for thirty to forty years. However, taxation is very strong on income from labour and too little on income from capital. A tax shift must, first and foremost, try to recreate a form of balance. The second objective of a tax shift is linked to the first: to promote employment, and in particular employment for the lowest wages, for this least qualified category of the population, which has suffered for too many years, which creates other problems. To mention a few, I am thinking of dropping out of school, public health problems and political problems, about which many academic personalities have written. The third aspect we point out as ecologists is that our taxation must evolve in a way that promotes the consideration of global and climate-saving issues, to finance our economy and to try to maintain a living environment that protects our health. These are the three objectives of the tax shift that we were asking for. We wanted a rebalancing of labour and capital. We wanted to promote employment and take environmental issues into account. What you present to us as the seventh wonder of the world is – apart from a few positive aspects that I have just highlighted – far from meeting these three objectives that we set. I see three reasons for that. The first is that in terms of pre-trial procedures and consultations, you acted – Mr.Deseyn was talking about hare and turtle – in a particularly light way. Is it rush, is it a conviction that you have the right solutions without having to consult? A large number of interlocutors were not respected in your work. The Council of State notes that, with regard to a number of provisions, for example in the area of construction support, Madam Minister, on tax aid to the high technology sector, prior consultation with the European Commission is necessary. This has not yet taken place. This is a problem at a time when we are going to vote on this text. Regions and local entities are also affected by the effects of the tax shift and have been too little called for prior consultation. Certain provisions related to the tax shift, as I read yesterday in the program bill, had to be removed from the legislation. Madam Minister, we had a debate on the subject in committee with you. For all the social aspects that have been dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee, you have advanced without having obtained the opinion of the National Labour Council. You didn't have it on Monday when we discussed it. I got it here. It has fallen in the meantime; it is dated 15 December. This is a first opinion of the National Labour Council on some of the measures decided upon, of which you were not aware before deciding to propose certain amendments in the field of social law. We were not aware of this either when we discussed the issue this Monday, simply because after your press conference on 21 July, you were slow to refer the matter to the National Labour Council. You can tell me, as you did in committee, that it takes time to prepare legislation, that the National Labour Council has been slow to react. Nevertheless, the first opinion contains very problematic elements which deserve debate, which deserve answers and which have not been taken into account. The National Labour Council estimates that from the moment social contribution reductions are implemented only on 1 April 2016, it still has time to deliver its opinion. But it is today that the texts will be voted on. Legislating before talking to each other is not a good way to work. That is the first reason why we believe that this tax shift is not entirely satisfactory. On the other hand, there is the question of funding. According to our view, a shift tax is a zero-sum transaction, a transfer of taxes from labour mainly to capital. In the end, the two scales must be balanced and the financing of social security guaranteed. I will not go back to the budget discussion we had. A lot of colleagues have spoken. As far as I'm concerned, I intervened from my bench. However, on the basis of the opinion of the Court of Auditors, the comments of the European Union, the comments on the legality of the arrangements issued by the Council of State, we believe that the account is not good, that the balance is not reached and that with the measures you are taking, you are going to put the federal State at serious budgetary risk. As far as the alternative revenues you are proposing are concerned, the share of income from capital is far too low, even if you are taking a first step to tax speculation. I will return to this point when I defend my amendments. By putting a large portion of the tax shift funding on the soda tax, etc., you touch citizens in their daily living behaviour and you touch those who should not be and who should be protected. That is the second reason why we are very critical of your tax shift. It is not properly funded. Third reason, beyond funding, minister, are the means being used well? Depending on the envelope you are going to have, mainly in terms of reducing social contributions, are you going to get a maximum effect? Will you be as effective as possible? Here too, our diagnosis is the same. By proposing a virtually linear reduction in social contributions, you do not get the optimal effect when it is necessary, necessary and possible - since we are tabling amendments on the subject - to concentrate on the lows and the means of wages. We have a cost per job created, based on figures from the Planning Office or the National Bank, which is truly astronomical. This is a waste of the means of social security that we cannot accept. As ecologists, we believe that the state budget must be well managed, that money must be well spent and that we must not put a euro where it is not necessary. These are the three reasons why we are particularly critical of your tax shift: the non-participatory method of work, the failure to take into account a lot of opinions that would have been useful, funding that is not there and inefficient use of means. Beyond these three general principles, we still have many questions and dissatisfaction with the absences of your tax shift. I listened to the debate between Mrs Wouters and my excellent colleague, Wouter De Vriendt, but it was a debate that we also had yesterday with Mr Bogaert. There is no modal shift, no transfer of budget from the company car to the SNCB, to other modes of transport that are already more user-friendly, but above all more environmentally friendly and better for our economy than the company car that clogs our roads, especially when it serves as a wage substitute. As I said, the taxation of capital is particularly timid. Mr Finance Minister, we have discussed the speculation tax: 34 million revenue compared to capital gains in billions of euros each year. Professionals making investments are exempt, stock options are not included. You have a single tax rate and a single six-month holding period for financial products. The principles are far too timid. As for the credibility of other measures that you are taking, the redesignation of the Public Service, we do not know the first word. We know the amount of savings you are considering (100 million in 2016, 750 million by the end of the legislature). It will be the responsibility of Minister Vandeput, but for the rest, how will you proceed? How are you going to ensure that the operation of these various federal public services will be ensured for the benefit of citizens, that the legitimate missions of security, tax collection will continue to be properly exercised or even better exercised tomorrow? We just have to believe you and trust you. I confess that I have some difficulties on the subject. What is the credibility of tax measures? Your plan, which we appreciate, has been set on fire by the very members of the majority. He only made a straw fire. How can we believe in these measures or in the EUR 3 billion you are going to achieve in terms of the economy in social security, to make it stronger apparently, but above all to leave tens of thousands of our fellow citizens (young people, women, older workers, sick workers) on the roadside? What about redistribution? I regret, because we have frank debates in the Committee on Finance, that you did not produce the study of the FPS Finances, of the decile effect of the measures that have been taken. What about the evolution of the tax on natural persons? What will its influence be? Who will be the major beneficiaries? The first deciles that will benefit from the tax-exempt quota and all the others? What about the effect of the various tax increases (soda tax, fuel tax)? What about the effects of social security measures on wealth distribution and poverty rates in our country? You are quoting the 2.7% increase in the wealth of redistribution to our fellow citizens. But how will this percentage be distributed among all citizens, those who already have a lot of resources and those who find it difficult to finish the month? In financial matters, you are removing the thematic citizen loan. These are not high amounts, but they are symptomatic of a certain vision of the economy and finance. On the contrary, as ecologists, we believe that we must direct the choice of bank investments to pension funds so that the savings of our citizens can be used to support the economy and create jobs. Minister, on the subject of employment, we have discussed the Social Maribel on several occasions in committee. However, I would like to reiterate our disagreement with the way in which you use the social security contribution reduction envelope for the non-market sector. There is an optimal system in the non-market sector in terms of job creation. Historically, reductions in social contributions have been transformed into wage subsidies. There is an automatic and mandatory link between the reduction of contributions and job creation. This does not exist at all in the market sector, which we regret because we are calling for greater conditionality of aid. This system works perfectly. Instead of entrusting the social partners in the non-market sector 100% of the envelope of the new reductions in social contributions that will be realized, you only grant them 45% of the envelope, while the government's slogan is "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" There are 50 per cent going to grant awards and 5 per cent going to the hospital sector, without you, minister, telling us the first word about how these means are going to be used in the hospital sector. Even the CD&V colleagues – I'm thinking of Mr Vercamer, who is bravely not present – say to you: "By the way, what is it going to do?" I could say with you that if they did not agree, you should not, at the level of the government, have an agreement, but either! There is no clarity on the use of means and there is no efficiency in the allocation of means. According to some estimates, it is 12,000 jobs that you will not create in the non-market sector by not allocating 100% of the envelope to the operation of the Maribel as it historically exists. With regard to the absence of indeterminate contributions for the first job and the extension of the contribution reductions to the sixth job, I do not know whether you have read, Mr Borsus, the opinion of the 1964 NTC that we have just received – it dates from the Tuesday session of the NTC – but it raises some questions. Let us be clear, as environmentalists, in principle, we support these measures. We have already, together with my colleague Mrs Muriel Gerkens, tabled proposals in this direction, such as supporting the creation of the first jobs for SMEs. But I have already pointed out to the minister in committee that there is concern about how these reductions will be used (some forms of social engineering, circumvention of the standard). The minister's response was that the social secretariats would be asked to report if they felt there were any slippages. This answer is not entirely satisfactory. This is an investment in the form of contribution reductions. Every effort must be made to ensure that this lever is actually used to create jobs. And there's a concern. We must be able to help a job-providing sector but not without conditions, not by giving a blank cheque. With regard to the first job – this will be decided by decree; it is not in the text – I would like to highlight the opinion of the social partners who are concerned that there is no maximum wage for this non-payment of contributions. One could pay a wage of 200 000 euros to a worker without contributions. Shouldn't there be a wage ceiling beyond which contributions would normally be due? The signal in terms of aid would be sufficient. If not, is there no risk of excesses and circumvention of the system's objective, which would be extremely costly for social security? If the decree is not yet adopted and, like me, you have just taken note of the opinion of the social partners, which is not unanimous in this case, you will still have the opportunity to make adjustments. Are you open to it, so that the means are used correctly? Madam Minister of Social Affairs, I will now address the issue of reduced contributions to certain federal cultural institutions. The Palais des Beaux-Arts and the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie, although in the non-market sector, could also benefit from contribution reductions and so much better. It is a way of supporting cultural work. On the other hand, I have still not understood why the National Orchestra and various museums such as the one in Tervueren or the one in the Natural Sciences did not receive the same support when these are activities quite comparable to those developed by the Palais des Beaux-Arts and the Royal Mint Theatre. Apply the same rules for operators who are close! The justification you provided in the commission for the fact that the National Orchestra was also operating abroad was somewhat laughable. I will touch on one last point before arriving at my synthesis and, above all, on our alternative proposals: the construction sector. The text before us foresees an effort of just over 600 million for the benefit of this sector, which is experiencing difficulties due to social dumping, which is itself the consequence of the Posting of Workers Directive – which was adopted slightly a few years ago in the European Parliament by almost all groups, except the Greens. Today, both workers' and employers' representatives are warning us about the dramatic situation in this area, in particular the enormous destruction of jobs resulting from unfair competition. The sector responded by believing that the measures were "too little to late" (insufficient and late). Above all, we don't know how you're going to act. Initial contacts with the European authorities have not been made with regard to compliance with the competition rules, to which they are very attentive. All this will be established by decree, without parliamentary control. On the other hand, we are still waiting for regulatory measures that could soon provide some air for the construction sector. It is thus possible to reserve federal but also regional and local public contracts for companies that pay their workers properly and pay their social contributions in Belgium. Indeed, the latest European directive on public procurement permits this. However, the law transposing this directive still does not exist. Your government has not implemented it. Excuse me, Mr. Borsus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u57	If the President allows me to do so, I will speak to inform you that she has passed first reading. It is also on the agenda of this Friday's Council of Ministers at second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u58	I take note of this with pleasure. A year ago, I asked the Prime Minister about this. Poor Mrs Galant had stepped into the carpet in this regard, because things are not clear. Yes, the opposite would be information. Finally, so much better if we move forward; better late than never! These are several things that bother us and do not satisfy us. That is why I am telling you as a pre-conclusion that your tax shift is not ours. Of course, action must be taken, because immobilism is not an option in socio-economic matters. There are certainly measures which can be supported in principle and which we have voted in committee to support self-employed people, productive investment, advanced technological sectors, workers' incomes and the reduction of labour costs. But it must be noted that the exercise has been sloppy, that the balance is not there, that prior consultation has not taken place with the social partners, with the Regions and with Europe. That means you can't be followed with your eyes closed. Who will pay the bill? Will the expenditure be controlled? Will the revenue be there? Will the jobs expected be created? It is clear, and it has been said by others, including the majority, that tight monitoring will have to be organised and the necessary adjustments made to the text. We must not wait until the disaster arrives to try to improve the majority's draft, and that is what we are going to try to do by means of amendments. You have received our amendments. They have three objectives, which I will detail. They aim to improve the income of capital taxes, in particular the speculative tax. They aim to maintain financial incentives for forms of investment that favour the economy, both the thematic citizen loan and the green booklet that ecologists have long been demanding. They also aim, and above all, to target lower- and lower- and middle-wage premium reductions more closely so as to have an effect in terms of job creation which is substantially stronger than the one you envisage and which avoids wastage of social security money and the effects of bounty. You have received these amendments together with those of other colleagues. I would like to review them with you quickly. As far as competitiveness is concerned, there are a number of technical amendments. Mr Piedboeuf, I invite you to take the table "employer contribution rates in relation to pay according to different scenarios". We have had this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and the budget and we believe that the proposed reductions in social contributions are too linear. Indeed - this is an argument that you have used - it cannot be denied that there is an accentuation and in relation to the current situation and to the competitiveness pact as regards reductions in social contributions. This is the main objective of your tax shift. But the difficulty is that you waste ways to reduce social contributions on the highest wages as well. What we are proposing in our amendments is to use the lowest route, i.e. with a much lower contribution rate for low wages and gradually increasing up to the median wage. Beyond the median wage, current social security contributions would remain in place. What is the advantage of this formula? I am based here on the work of several economists, notably on the work of IRES (Catholic University of Leuven), which published a very interesting study on the subject in October. LIERS estimates that the planned budget envelope for the 2016 expense reductions could result in an additional 28,000 to 47,000 jobs instead of the 7,000 jobs announced by the Planning Office in 2016. What needs to be done for this? We propose to maintain and increase the social contribution reduction package, which mainly benefits low and medium wage earners, to remove the reduction of social contributions for the highest wage earners and to choose a ceiling, based on quarterly income, of 10% with a slope of 15%. It's a little technical, but I think the diagrams that we are proposing here show the difference between our proposal and yours. At equivalent costs, a much more effective effect can be achieved. I am sorry that we were unable to present these amendments in committee, Madam Minister, but we were taken short. However, I had announced this analysis. We have concrete proposals to improve your text. It seems to me that it is important not only to criticize but also to make counter-proposals. Similarly, with regard to the speculative tax provided for in the financing section, Mr. Minister of Finance, we do not consider it justified to reserve the possible payment of this tax to natural persons. We need to be able to target societies as well. It does not seem logical to us to limit ourselves to holding financial products and shares at 6 months. For us, we need to go much further but more progressively. We therefore propose a degressive tax. The longer the share will be held by the person who bought it, the lower the tax. The idea is to encourage good family behaviour, an investment behaviour that is really a support for the economy rather than a speculative behaviour. Our entrepreneurs need strong and sustainable investors, who do not decide to sell their shares for a yes or a no, which can cause instability. In doing so, one can expect income from the tax. However rest assured, those who sell profitably will keep a good profit. This one will be much higher than the 34 million euros you propose. Similarly, we propose to maintain the reduction of the mobile discount for the thematic citizen loans and to introduce a further reduction of this discount. We are also in favour of certain tax cuts where they are useful and necessary, for citizens who would choose to place their money on a green booklet, a new financial product created by banks on the basis of the standards set by the government. The placements on these booklets would be reserved for this necessary transition of the economy, in connection with the Paris summit this weekend. As ecologists, we cannot remain on a somewhat critical note by questioning your proposals. We must criticize, it is our role, but we must also propose alternatives, and that is what we are doing. Your tax shift could be fairer, greener and more economically efficient. Follow us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u59	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to make a small correction of a cultural nature. At the beginning of his presentation, Mr. Gilkinet said that the government compared the tax shift to the seventh wonder of the world. This is a small mistake, because the seventh wonder of the world is the Fan Tower of Pharos, which is called Alexandria's lighthouse. You probably meant the eighth, sir. What's interesting about the seventh wonder of the world is that this lighthouse was built in fifteen years, which makes three legislatures and suits us very well. On the other hand, it served as a guide for seventeen centuries. So we are very happy with the comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u60	I will leave my right of reply to Mr Cheron, but I think that he inspires you and that your arrival in this Parliament raises the cultural level of our reflections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u61	Mr President, ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Piedboeuf has already shown us his skills as a poet earlier in a very lyrical speech. He also has talents as an art historian. My faith is good for the debates, it's no worse. If you will, I will try to intervene with a certain brevity, even if so far I have not abused the speaking time allocated to all colleagues. Above all, beyond the length of the debates, I would like to speak with some consistency, in any case consistency with myself and with the group as a whole, in relation to proposals which we made in time non-suspecto; to speak with honesty and to welcome the positive elements of this tax shift and then, you will agree, to intervene with clarity, since if there are positive elements, there is nevertheless a great deal of dissatisfaction or even concern. The tax debate was already an important debate before the last elections, since the issue of taxation mobilized pre-election debates. That is why I would like to be consistent, since before the elections, the CDH had already advocated a recast of our entire tax system, which, in many respects, may appear to be unfair if it fails to curb the increase in inequalities; certainly ineffective in relation to certain values that we want to promote, particularly work; complex, since this system has become quite unreadable. In view of this, we had the ambition - and it was shared by several political forces - to recast taxation, which is an important pillar of our social contract, in the same way as solidarity through social security. Taxation is a major part of our social contract. It's important to take care of it. That is why we made a proposal for a substantial tax reform. It covered large amounts of around EUR 10 billion and concerned not only IP but also corporate taxes. This tax reform was also fully funded, since it seemed to us that it was always important to preserve full budgetary neutrality from any tax advance, since we are in a fiscal context that we know is not easy. With regard to this need for tax reform, I remain consistent with all the proposals made before the elections by the cdH Group. I am consistent with the bills we have tabled, and I continue to argue that there is a need for significant reform. Mr Piedboeuf, you yourself said that this reform was not quite the seventh wonder of the world, but you will agree with me that if it is an important reform that does not lack some audacity in some respects, it certainly does not constitute the great tax reform that would have been necessary. It is a relatively small tax shift, ideologically marked, not fully funded and suffers in some way from the conditions under which it was developed. I do not want to epilogue the internal difficulties of the majority that have been felt for months. It's a lot of people, but we know there's been a lot of tension, a lot of power relations, a lot of trouble. Somewhere, the compromise that came out of this somewhat chaotic process bears the stigma. It is a reform which, in some respects, is incomplete, since a number of provisions have had to be withdrawn from the texts because of lack of time or uncertainty. It is known that the tax regularization was withdrawn at the last minute. We know that on the Specialised Real Estate Investment Fund, we are still waiting for the results of the discussions. We know the Diamant tax has disappeared from the budget. So there are, on the way, a number of unknown people who have come and added themselves and which make this reform an incomplete work, also affected by a method of work which, objectively, seems to me to be questionable. I want to point out that the impact assessments were carried out after the decision was taken. It seems to me that in a rational decision-making process, it would have been better to ask the Plan Office or the National Bank before making a decision so that we could have a number of scenarios and choose the best one. The government did the opposite, made the decisions and asked for them to be assessed. There is a way to do better in terms of managing the decision-making process. The reflections on the tax slide were prepared by the Supreme Council of Finance through this report, which was mentioned earlier. Why not submit the proposed reform to the Supreme Council of Finance? That would have been a good act of transparency. The Budget Minister said yesterday that the government was transparent in budgetary matters. It would have been useful, given the work done upstream by the Supreme Council of Finance, to have its analysis of the government's proposals. There is, of course, the opinion of the Council of State, although it is essentially legal in scope. I think the opinion of the CSF would have been helpful. If there were to be further reforms, why not take the trouble of seeking this opinion to feed our thinking and improve the model? Here we have specialists who know the subject and who can certainly make interesting proposals. I am trying to be consistent with myself and I see that the far-reaching tax reform may not be what we wanted, but, not in the majority, I do not have to be surprised. I am trying to be honest and I want to welcome positive elements in this tax shift. There are, indisputably. I am not one of those who, as a matter of principle, dispute in particular the reductions in contributions that have been decided on in terms of work. In particular, in the Finance Committee, I have pointed out that a number of provisions seem to us to be quite positive, such as the reduced VAT rate on school buildings, although on this issue I remain with some uncertainty. Unless I am mistaken about a matter directly covered by European standards, we do not have the assurance that this reduced rate will be accepted and validated by European bodies. It is a question mark that should be lifted as soon as possible. In its texts, the government states that this criticism is, in a way, premature. As far as I am concerned, I think it would have been better to adopt this reduction in rates with full knowledge of the facts. The Fiscologue International published today evokes this problem. I really hope that the minister or the government will soon be able to reassure us completely of the compliance of this reduction, which we support, with European standards. We have also drawn attention in the Finance Committee to the fact that reductions in investment for SMEs are positive and that we fully support them. In addition, the reduction of the burden on labour was welcomed in the Committee on Social Affairs. In particular, I welcome the reduction in social contributions for the first six commitments in SMEs. This is a significant measure, which I would like to welcome, since SMEs are the largest employers in Belgium. Indeed, unless I'm mistaken, four out of ten Belgians are active in an SME. This is therefore a welcome step. In general, I welcome the willingness to move towards a 25 % facial rate for employers' contributions. This perspective is interesting. It will certainly encourage foreign investors to settle in Belgium. We know that, even if it is theoretical, the rate of 33% is likely to deter them. I would also like to welcome the additional effort that is being made for construction. The project under review empowers the King and therefore the government to develop a specific scheme for employers' contributions which must be reduced in the construction sector. That's a positive point. Having said that, I am announcing the tabling in plenary of an amendment tabled by Mrs Fonck in committee to shorten the deadline. Indeed, the current text empowers the government to intervene, but within a period that we believe is too long. This is a two-and-a-half year period since it runs until June 30, 2018. Legally, this authorization covers too long a period, and from a practical point of view, the construction sector cannot wait any longer. It has lost as many as 17,000 jobs in recent years. He announced the possible, if not probable, loss of 20,000 jobs by the end of the legislature, if nothing was done. There is an urgent need for action, hence the tabling of this amendment to speed up the handling of this important issue. Positive elements exist and I try to recognize them with intellectual honesty. But I cannot help, and it is the role of the opposition, you will agree, to be lucid and to consider that this project suffers from inadequacies. In some respects, this may be a missed opportunity, as there are missing elements. We may not be able to put everything into reform, but I still want to point out that there is no tax on market capital gains. It would have been an interesting element that could have diversified the sources of funding. There is also nothing about corporate tax, or the corporate tax rate, when there is probably something to improve the model. Nothing particularly about notional interests, which nevertheless represent a particularly large budget volume. It's obviously a taboo for the majority, almost a sacred cow. However, the regional distribution of the benefit of these notional interests is rather uneven. That is why, in our own proposal for tax reform, we are dealing with these notional interests which we consider to be largely excessive. Nothing about company cars either. It is also, no doubt, a missed opportunity. Bills have been tabled. I hope that they will be dealt with quickly, because the current situation is unsatisfactory. Without wanting to prolong the point unnecessarily, it cannot be said that the tax shift proposed here is useful in terms of simplification. I can only regret these elements which are totally absent from this reform. On the other hand, I would like to stress a few negative elements, without taking away anything from the positive comments I have been able to make on certain provisions. The very title of this bill is that it aims to create employment. It's the leitmotiv. I have no doubt that reducing the burden on work will, in one way or another, create new jobs, but there is still something to ask. Firstly, on the cost of creating these new jobs. I have already said it in committee and I want to say it again. According to estimates from the National Bank or the Planning Office, the cost per job created varies between 103,000 and 146,000 euros. It's objectively huge. One might wonder what is the threshold beyond which the government would find it unreasonable to create public funding jobs. On this question, I have had little answer and I can only note that we are on a cost to the community that is very high in terms of the jobs created. Moreover, I cannot help but note the contradiction between this desire, through the fiscal lever, to create additional jobs, and other aspects of government policy, which do not seem to us to be in favour of job creation. Here are two examples. The first is the reorganisation of the income guarantee allowance. This allowance enables part-time workers to be valued in relation to unemployment benefit. The Government has decided to halve this income guarantee allowance, which has a strong impact on women, who account for more than three quarters of the beneficiaries of this allowance. This measure, which has already entered into force on 1 January 2015, seems to us to contradict this concern for employment which the government says it wants and supports towards and against everything. The second example is the abolition of the pension bonus since January 1, 2015 too. While the government intends to encourage workers to be active longer and encourage work, at the same time it decides to remove the pension bonus, which seems to us to be largely contradictory. As far as the non-market sector is concerned, dissatisfaction is rumbling. Clearly, the meeting with Minister Peeters and Minister De Block did not calm the concerns. On the contrary! In view of the incendiary communiqués that have fallen, it would be in the interest of the social Maribel to hear the grievances of the sector in order to create more jobs than is the case. In the same vein, I regret that local authorities are again excluded from the scope of the beneficiaries from measures to reduce the burden on work. It is known, however, that local authorities are important providers of jobs and that they are struck by measures taken at the federal level that lead to their figures. This was an opportunity to make a gesture, including for employment in the local public sector. This gesture has not been made. So these are the grievances that I wanted to make with regard to this employment objective. As far as tax technology is concerned, this tax reform is weakening, reducing tax escalation. Since there is a simplification of rates, without changing anything from the tax base, it seems to me that we are inevitably moving towards an increasingly dual system, which necessarily affects tax escalation while the multiplication of rates allows for a better increase. If we compare the scheme in force in Belgium with that in Luxembourg, for example, we find in Belgium that the level effects are increasing while the Luxembourg scheme is more progressive and therefore fair. Purchasing power is also one of the goals claimed by the government – curiously enough because at the beginning of the legislature it was holding a speech of austerity. It seems that there has been a reversal; it is now absolutely necessary to deposit a cheque of 100 euros on the table of our fellow citizens to reassure them of their purchasing power. Objectively, we've done a little snorkelling on the subject since we're far from the 100 euros announced. It's not for the moment. You will agree: when we see the entry into force of the measures, we find that a number will only produce their effects in 2018 or even 2019. So it's not for the moment, nor for everyone either, because that figure is an average. When we look at the distribution of this gain in terms of purchasing power we are obliged to see a number of differences. I don't want to make it a polemic. It is clear, however, that self-employed people, for example, will not benefit in the same way as employees of the tax shift scheme, as they will not benefit from the increase in lump-sum professional costs or the increase in the employment bonus. Thus, when comparing the gain between an employee and a self-employed person with equivalent gross income, there is a particularly important differential. There is a differential of this order in the case of social beneficiaries. They too are, in a way, the forgotten ones of the tax reform. Although other measures taken outside the scope of this tax shift are also mentioned, the gain for a pensioner is significantly lower than that for an employee who benefits from the same amount of income, simply because social beneficiaries, particularly pensioners, by definition, cannot benefit, for example, from the employment bonus or from the increase in lump sum professional costs, while at the same time they will be subject to all the new taxes. One hundred euros is not for the moment, not for everyone and, above all, not without consideration. Objectively, if we want to be honest and I have announced that I absolutely want to be honest, we must both account for the tax gain that is granted by the government and, at the same time, account for the impact of the new taxes, which are known to be numerous: taxes on electricity, excises on diesel, excises on tobacco, taxes on sodas, excises on alcohol, savings measures, measures on intercommunals which will affect citizens. All of this is in addition to the index jump, so when we make the total, the real gain is far less than what is posted by the government. First of all, I note that our citizens can feel legitimately trapped, on the one hand, by the measure relating to the increase in excise duty on diesel, since for many of them, the use of this fuel cannot be changed overnight. There is therefore an effect on a somewhat captive category. On the other hand, I regret the measure relating to the increase of the withholding tax on the thematic citizen loan. This is a complete reversal from previous federal decisions. The government is therefore going back to proposing a more advantageous tax for savers willing to invest in these loans to the real economy. If we take account of these measures, which largely eat the tax advantage granted, we can see that the benefit is very much lower, as I was telling you. For a gross income of 3,300 euros, the gain announced by the government is of the order of 1,092 euros per year. If we count all these measures and all the taxes that come to the taxpayer, we get a much lower gain, amounting to 319 euros per year. And again, one could also consider that, of this effort for the benefit of taxpayers, a part, up to about 25%, is carried by the Regions themselves. As we know, the PPI is now allocated to the Regions to the tune of about 25%. In this way, in total, it is not even EUR 1 000 per year for an annual gross income of EUR 3 300, but it is, according to the figures of the government, 800 euros and, after counting all the taxes that apply, 35 euros of actual gain per year, a very small amount. This is really a nuance, the least we can say is the government's gift of purchasing power. I mentioned the problems of employment, taxation and purchasing power. In conclusion, and without being too long, I would like to mention the financing of this tax shift, since it is one of the major and objective weaknesses of the scheme proposed to us. We have had the opportunity today, and previously in the context of the budgetary debate, to point out at length all the weaknesses that characterize the financing of the tax shift. Tax regularization is postponed to better days. The Diamond tax is no longer included in the budget. The speculation tax only concerns objectively insignificant amounts. The yield of the Cayman tax has been revised upwards, but we will wait to see it to really believe it. The health tax actually affects behaviours and, if it were to be effective, it would reduce the yield that could be expected from it. I will not dwell on tax fraud or redesign; we have talked about it at length. These are points that weaken and make the financial set-up uncertain or even risky, so that – as the Chairman of the Finance Committee himself acknowledged – this operation is at least risky. I think that's the term you used. This is a risk. There is no doubt that this could lead to positive effects. Nevertheless, there is great concern in terms of budgetary neutrality. The federal government's fiscal trajectory is uncertain. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again in the following years, because, obviously, the objective of restoring fiscal balance in 2018 is far from being achieved. I think he's even lost. I fear that this tax shift will further complicate the budget model. Beyond the fiscal impact on the government's trajectory, the effects will be felt in the lives of our fellow citizens who have already paid this tax shift for the first time when they had to take up the index jump. They pay it a second time with the taxes that are borne by the government. I have quoted them and I will not return to them. I am convinced, like them, that they will have to pay the tax shift a third time when it is necessary to complete the financing - which is already known to be partial - and that it will be necessary to compensate for all the risky measures I have just mentioned and which are not guaranteed. This EUR 100 cheque will therefore cost our fellow citizens a great deal, as they will have paid it three times. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must confirm to you that, despite the positive progress made in this draft, the CDH will vote against this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, which is already well under discussion, I will sum up the elements that we consider essential to justify our opposition to the tax reform that the government is submitting to us. We are very far from the ambitious tax reform that the government had suggested and announced at the time of its formation and the establishment of the majority government, which the MR had made one of its leitmotivs for the electoral campaign. He then suggested that we were finally going to have this real shift in taxation in favour of income from work and that we were finally going to free up purchasing power by means of a marked reduction in taxation on income from work. In committee – and Mr Piedboeuf did not mind – I took up the MR's proposals, drawn from his electoral program, which his then president, the current prime minister, said on all television sets, were self-financial. I remember very well a debate on a platform of RTL-TVI, the final debate of the electoral campaign. Questioned by the leader of the debate, Pascal Vrébos, when everyone was invited to announce the net gain in pocket by category of income, Mr Michel had advanced almost for an income of less than 45 000 euros gross per year, a gain of nearly 400 euros net per month. No one had believed it; everyone had said that there was a problem with the budget estimate. But the latter claimed that the liberalization of taxation would have such a return to the benefit of job creation that there was no reason to fear the budgetary financing of such an electoral promise, which he obviously failed to fulfil. [[But, more importantly,...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u64	More serious, it is noted that even what was announced in July by the government, namely that one in two income in Belgium would benefit at least 100 euros net of additional income thanks to the reduction of the taxes on labour income, will not be respected, in full, before the 2019 tax year, income 2018. I still expect the Minister of Finance, who announced them in committee, to have his actual forecasts, through a tax decile, of the benefits that will result from this tax reform. The biggest paradox and the proof that the majority is very unsure of what they have announced is that today, the government, the Minister of Finance, are not providing a certain forecast of the tax benefits associated with the announced reform. There's no definite forecast. Why? Because the government itself is not sure how to fund the announced tax reform. It is known that the National Bank and the Plan Office have found that the budget estimates for the financing of this tax reform are not sustainable. Others have said it in this place, it is true that we are not only very far from the great reform to the benefit of labour incomes, but the government has not dared to carry iron where it should have, since it wanted to seek new balance in taxation. Nothing about green taxation. We are probably the only country that is starting to think about its taxation without having the audacity to question taxation that is too advantageous for company cars. We did so in a bill that we tabled; other parties did so as well. I hear on the banks of the N-VA, in particular, that we are told that until there is a significant reduction in taxes on labour income, we cannot reach this tax advantage. It's a perversity of reasoning. If you want to significantly reduce taxes on labour income, you have to tackle the tax niches and, in particular, the tax advantage today on corporate vehicles, which has become an income supplement for many workers. Because, simply, we do not dare to tackle this fiscal niche, we do not operate a reduction in labour income to free up purchasing power and, finally, do what? Leave the free choice to the workers of the type of expenditure to which it affects the tax gains it would have through a genuine tax reform. Indeed, our taxation conditions behaviour, in particular through a number of tax niches. And what does it finally cause? Among other things, the exile of urban centres. We must not hide it, we have a tax that by the preferred way of moving by car of company, and - I recognize that it is no longer the federal jurisdiction but this tax has been favoured for a long time by the federal - the advantages of mortgage borrowing, the "bonus-housing": these two measures have conditioned for a long time the behaviour of expenditure and the allocation of workers' incomes with the resulting consequences on the modes of travel and the types of expenditure. That's a real social problem we didn't want to tackle! Now that the Regions are in charge of a component, we have seen well, perhaps partly under the budgetary constraint but also by different political choices, that they have called into question the housing bonus. There is will, there is audacity! Today, there is not the same will, the same audacity, in the federal government to review what is a necessity in today's economic development. Not to mention, of course, the environmental effect. But this is not just an environmental issue sensu stricto. This issue also affects the quality of life. When we take stock of a life devoted to the daily movement of a number of workers in that country, we will see that this is undoubtedly the greatest loss of capacity and human resources in relation to the effectiveness of economic policies. I'm not even talking about environmental spillovers. There is therefore a lack of long-term vision and this is probably what makes the current tax reform very weak. We're not going to criticize every aspect for the pleasure of criticizing. Upgrading the floor from which you charge 45 per cent: very well. The increase in deductible costs: very well. We could, of course, discuss some of the modalities. I have heard Mr Dispa say some very interesting things about the excellence of Luxembourg's tax system. We could all otherwise model certain aspects of tax reform to make it more progressive and more balanced according to income categories. But the great weakness of your tax reform is that you have not dared to choose a true society! That's what's calling it. In other words, this country continues to sink into a traditionalism that is particularly detrimental to those who only earn their income from work. You didn't have the audacity to make a real reform on capital. I will not go as far as some of the proposals that have been put forward, but within the scope of taxation on capital income, there are very large disparities, and you know that. Depending on the type of capital income, there are large disparities. You did not want to standardize, if only through tariffs, general and uniformly applicable rates on any type of capital income. I am not involved in the idea of globalization of all incomes, that is what other parties are talking about, because that would have perverse effects, particularly in terms of savings. On the other hand, standardizing at least the tax rate on all capital income at a uniform rate of 25%, for example, was the least of the requirements in terms of rebalancing taxation. You didn't have the audacity to pay corporate taxes either. Here too, we had to be bold. We had to have the audacity to go, and that is also what the economic world is asking for, towards the abolition of the exorbitant rates we know, to have a uniform and perhaps more favourable rate, which we propose for SMEs, 20% and 25%, and to remove the tax niches that exist in corporate tax. Companies with tax ingenuity have found a way to escape almost any kind of tax in Belgium. And the ones that contribute the most are those that have the weakest equity base. It is therefore, of course, very detrimental to the economic activity of SMEs to have a tax at this point absconsus. We are therefore far from a more efficient, fairer and balanced tax system. So it was a government that made the most minimalist choice. In addition, the government will have a number of tax burdens and budgetary consequences carried over on the lower powers, particularly on the municipalities. They will have lost budgetary revenue. It is said that "it is up to the municipalities to find solutions for their budgetary balance". There is a risk of fiscal catch-up at the level of some municipalities, especially those already facing difficult budgetary situations. But above all, there will be a lack of awareness of the correct application of the fiscal neutrality promised by the government and also by the MR in its majority agreement, which stipulated that there would be no harmful consequences for other levels of power. Since Mr. Piedboeuf referred to the seven wonders of the world - and we all appreciated his historical references - I will conclude by saying that, in short, the majority buried his electoral promises in Halicarnasse's mausoleum, because it takes a great mausoleum to bury great promises. It is true that the mausoleum did not resist the time, but we knew that the promises of the MR would not resist it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u65	Colleagues, I will start this speech by quoting a great author. I wondered if a great author or popular culture should be used. I had thought of Victor Hugo who said, "The paradise of the rich is made from the hell of the poor." But there was also Louis de Funes in "The madness of greatness" which said, "The poor is made to be very poor and the rich, very rich." Compared to this tax shift, we're going to go to the essentials. MR agrees. It's rare. When he has a good idea, I am. It's rare, but I do. I will proceed by listing the six major criticisms I have of the tax shift. The first relates to the financing or non-financing of the tax shift. Traditionally, there are policies based on fiscal discipline that result in social disasters and policies that are to a lesser extent part of this rigour and that are a little broader at the social level. In that case, we'll find both. We are faced with a policy that is not based on budgetary rigour or social content, which is quite extraordinary. The tax shift submitted to us is far from being budgetaryly neutral, since it costs EUR 6 billion. To finance this tax shift, there are two possibilities. Either we choose to apply new taxes, which would be pretty bad with regard to a shift tax that would have to be financed by new taxes; I fear you would choose this option. Either, we choose to destroy public services even more than we do at the moment, since you are delaying the charge of the tax shift to the years to come. My second criticism concerns the lack of a large capital contribution to this tax shift. A debate on this matter has already taken place earlier. For those who were absent, I would like to remind you of a figure that must be kept in mind. The president of the N-VA said he agreed to tax the richest people who make up 1% of the population, if it is proved that it is possible. We have therefore tabled a proposal for a millionaire's tax which proves that this is indeed possible. To those who, like Mr. Van Rompuy, claim that one can tax the rich but that it will bring little money to the state, I say that it can make a lot of money if one takes into account what the richest possess. Do you know how much the 1% of the richest people in Belgium own? They own EUR 420 billion. I urge you to keep that figure, because we may return to it in the days and months to come. Mr Miller, what is the heritage of the 1% of the richest people? EUR 420 billion! So, there's enough money to get! In committee, I used a formula that was used – I wanted to say it – on the eighth page of the report that you can go to. I said, "This government taxes sweat and exonerates glanders." Of course, we do not touch big assets or big fortunes, nor do we touch the niches of corporate tax. The MR and other parties had said that perhaps we would revisit the notional interests. Apparently, the N-VA didn't want it. We will therefore say that the other partners have returned to their niche. Capital gains are virtually not targeted, since the measure concerns only a return of EUR 34 million. Similarly, there is no progressivity of the furniture discount, which affects everyone in the same way. It can therefore be said that large capital is virtually not targeted by this tax shift. On the other hand, and this is my third review, he receives quite impressive gifts. I am thinking of reductions in employer contributions. That's funny, Mr. Van Rompuy every time I use the word "gift." Unfortunately, I don't have any more at my disposal. That is the term, because we are talking about taxation! The amount of this gift amounts to EUR 4 billion to be allocated in the form of so-called employer contributions, which are in fact indirect wages. I won't come back. All this is based on the dogma to which most of the Members present here are attached, according to which the more gifts are given to the rich, the more activity and employment will be created. This has never been demonstrated. The National Bank can claim this, as it has done in previous years. I would like to be shown where this job was planned and valued. Where is he? Reductions in social contributions have been granted for 20 years. If this had created employment, we would have a working population of 10 million workers. If we follow this logic, we would have to get the children to work so much we would need employment. Moreover, when we ask the Minister of Finance to invite the National Bank and the Plan Bureau to committee, since they achieve different results on the number of jobs created, he tells us that it is too technical, too complicated, that we will not enter into such discussions. I conclude that it is a kind of dogma, a black box that must not be opened. At one time, social inequalities were justified because the Lord was of divine right. Today, inequalities are justified by an economic right, or I don't know. Religion is the same; simply, priests have changed. They're not wearing a bra, they're wearing a complete jacket.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u66	Mr Van Hees, you always talk about the lack of work. How many people actually work in the private sector in Belgium, so outside the public sector? You say there is no job creation, but still a number of people still work. The entrepreneurs are still investing, the workers are satisfied in the factories because they have jobs and our economy has enormous innovation and great creativity. You pretend that everyone is unemployed, that no prosperity is created and that entrepreneurs have only one goal, that is to pile up their wealth to do a lot of what to do. What's your analysis? Do you think the private sector still makes sense? I always hear you talking about gifts, gifts and gifts, but wouldn't everyone be best employed by the government? You are always making an analysis, but I would like to hear from your Communist point of view how you want to stimulate the economy and employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u68	You are taking over some of the issues, Mrs Onkelinx, which I noticed this morning. Mr Van Hees, from your communist point of view, I would like to hear how you will stimulate the economy and employment. That will bring us more than your criticisms yesterday, you had 12 and today you had six. How do you, as a communist, see how employment can be created?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u69	Mr Van Rompuy, I'll answer you, but I'll give you a little advice first. You told me you used to work in a bank. I advise you to go to another bank, to the workers of Fortis, to explain to them that in the private sector - even if a small part of its capital is held by the Belgian State - that in this company, two billion dividends were distributed to the parent company in Paris. It is a company that benefits from all the gifts given to companies. Also explain to them that at the same time, it terminates or eliminates 1,050 jobs. Tell them how well this private sector works, what a miracle it represents. I see gifts offered, but these gifts are a boon. That's the reality. Mr Van Rompuy, the more gifts you offer to the private sector, the more you definance the public sector where you eliminate thousands of jobs. How many railway jobs will be eliminated? Today, it is the prison guards who strike. Every day, there are movements of discontent. Sometimes it's in the Justice Department. At all times, there are job cuts and restrictions in the public sector that cost employment. You want to know what they say to the PTB? Rather than offering virtual jobs by multiplying gifts to the bosses, you should use the money differently. For example, the money from the top 1%, who owns how much Mr. Miller? EUR 420 billion! Put it in that amount, tax it! That's exactly the question. Tax these EUR 420 billion to create jobs and meet people's social needs, including by creating public jobs. Instead of creating virtual jobs, you will create real jobs, Mr Van Rompuy. That's the reality! That was the question of Mr. Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u70	(...) do you imagine employers in the private sector in the future or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u71	In this case, let's take a step further. That's good, Mr. Van Rompuy, the discussions like that. Yes, quite: I see this very well, but not everywhere. I will give you examples of how the public sector could work better than the private sector. For example, in the banking sector, the CGER has operated from 1865 to the 1990s without any worries. On the contrary, the CGER paid money for social missions. It took only ten years of privatisation, Mr Van Rompuy, with Fortis, to make it the financial disaster, the crisis of 2008 and that the state was obliged to intervene. This is an example of a sector where publicity could work better than the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u72	Mr. President, twice Mr. Van Hees tells us about the banks again. It is obviously a subject of great interest to him, but each time he does not answer the simple enough question asked by Mr. Van Rompuy. Does the very existence of the private sector still make any sense to you? Do you think the private company still makes sense? Why don't you dare confess what we all know about you? Why this fear of announcing what you want: a system advocating the collective appropriation of the means of production, no more or less, as already a lot of years ago? We saw the result! Do you really tell us what you want instead of kicking?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u73	Mr Cheron, I may have misheard Mr. Van Rompuy earlier, but you didn't listen to me right now. I said that I was not against the private sector but that there are sectors where I find that the public would work better than the private sector. I set the example of the banks. I can give the example of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u74	To go a little further, can you imagine another place for the private? I don't know in which area, you're not very clear. In which sectors do you imagine that there may still be private? If you imagine it, can these employers be supported in your opinion? Could they be allies for employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u75	I think it's a funny logic!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u76	It's a question, it's not a logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u77	The logic behind your question is to say that we are in a capitalist, liberal system, that we must support these companies and help them; every day we are told that liberalism and competitive struggle are a good thing for the economy. Why should the state come to the aid of companies to help them with workers' money? I think that the more these aids are given to businesses, the greater the inequality between these 1 % of the richest and all the workers who suffer in this way. By impoverishing the workers, you prevent them from consuming. You're reducing consumption. Finally, that's the runoff theory you're defending. We water the richest, we give gifts to companies - 420 billion euros for the 1 % of the richest -, eventually it will drip over the whole of society. And you think everyone's going to enjoy it? It is neoliberalism which, unfortunately, has contaminated beyond the classical right, Madame Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u78	Mr Van Hees, I can understand all the criticisms of the systems. It happens to me, too. I hear your criticism of the functioning of the current economic system. If you are against the market economy, as I have heard, what is the other system you are proposing? The question is simple. I'm waiting for a simple answer. Anyway, that's how you express yourself. Give me a simple answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u79	Mr Massin, you have the art of recycling the questions that others have already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u80	Go on! Answer me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u81	There's nothing to worry about. I'll tell you what I said earlier. The PTB finds that some major sectors...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u82	No! What economic system do you advocate today? What is your economic system? Say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u83	It is a society, it is also the slogan of our party,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u84	Say it clearly! It has a name. Come on, "Scratch your Valda"!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u85	Mr Massin, do you want to let me answer or do you want to keep talking? The slogan of our party is this: "People first, not profit!" So we are actually against a profit-based society. But this capitalist society is based on profit. It's a reality. It is the driving force behind this economic system. As far as we are concerned, we are in favour of a society that is based on people's needs. We have to meet people's needs. It is necessary to build on these needs; our guide must be these needs of the population and not the benefit of a few. The fact is that, in this capitalist society, the engine is the profit of a minority. As Mr Nollet points out, what is the consequence? It is that the 1% of the richest people have 420 billion euros of wealth. Shouldn't we go and look for it to revive things, to satisfy the needs of people, for example pensioners? Do you know that one in two pensioners is below the poverty line? These are the miracles of your capitalist system! Let's go get in those 420 billions what to refinance pensions instead of making people work longer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u86	Mr. President, if Mr. Van Hees had voted in favour of a collectivist system, he would have assumed. On the other hand, I am concerned because it gives no economic reference. For a party that says it's close to people and not for profit, I don't know what economic system it advocates. I'm really worried. We could call this a term that I don't want to say here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u87	Mr Massin, the PTB has no concern about his company project. We have just organized a congress and published a book. We are not against the private sector and SMEs. Does the PTB want to collect the local grocery store or the Saint-Feuillien brewery? No, I don't! I blame the multinationals that run the real politics. For example, Electrabel imposes on us energy policy in our country! Unfortunately, this is a criticism that I do not hear enough, even on the green side. The free market here has shown its failure in energy policy. The failure of energy policy is due to the fact that the market is leading everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u88	Mr. President, the fact that Mr. Van Hees has a lot of criticism of the ecologists, I can understand that. But that he doesn't think we're attacking Electrabel enough... We will one day have a debate in the Committee on the Economy, but the problem is that you are not there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u89	There are two of us, and I think we're filling enough space. We will try to be more numerous after the next elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u90	It's not a criticism, it's a regret related to the fact that you think we're not criticizing enough. That said, for your information, we criticize Engie, who is the parent house. Sometimes it's more useful than just criticizing Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u91	It's high, Mr. Nollet. I must say that, as an argument, it is strong! Do I go on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u92	Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Massin, members of Ecolo, rightly asked questions, but they have not yet been answered. You're on the defensive. You don't have an alternative. You're the economy. Of course, not the little bistros. This is the first time we have, with you and Mr Hedebouw, PTB Members in this Parliament. The last Communist who sat here was Mr. Van Geyt. I've known him again. He proposed solutions far more reasonable than your communism. You're not a modern communist. Van Geyt was. With you, we have to go back to the pre-war period. After a year, you failed your exam. I'll give you zero out of ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u93	I'm going to confide in you, Mr. Van Rompuy. I'm glad you're putting me at zero in ten. It reassures me! Indeed, when we have a party like yours that says we're going to make the richest pay and we see that, in the end, we have to look in this document to see what's going on. Yes, there's 34 million euros to make the richest pay. It was your union base that asked you. I don't know yet if you have any from the union base, Mr. Van Rompuy. I'm worried about the future of the CD&V. 34 million euros while, and here I turn to Mr Nollet, who will remind us, the wealth of the richest 1% is 420 billion euros. I don't know if it's very modern. It reminds me a little bit of the 19th century. It's a bit like Piketty's analysis that says we're going back to the 19th century, back to an annuitant economy. I have the impression that this is the model of this assembly: the economy of annuitants, the 19th century. I don't know if it's very modern, Mr. Van Rompuy. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u94	Let's go to the fourth review. It is more specific and related to professional discount exemptions. What is the principle? There is a withholding tax. Therefore, the employer retains the tax on the worker's gross salary and returns it to the income from contributions. Except that, for a number of years, he has kept a game for him! This is the principle of professional discount exemptions that go even further with this tax shift. A passage particularly appeals to me, it is night work! If you are, Mr. Minister of Finance, working at night is harmful to health. Perhaps the Minister of Health will confirm that? In fact, I can quote from a report by the FGTB Central General, which states: "Several studies have proved the harmfulness of shiftwork and night work for the health of workers. Harms can range from simple weight gain to sleep disorders, or in some cases to cardiovascular problems. Despite this evidence, the right-wing government will once again make teamwork and night work more advantageous for employers." I asked a written question to the Minister of Finance who sent me to you, Mrs De Block. You didn't warn her, did you, minister? I quote his answer to my written question: "It is up to my colleagues responsible for employment and public health to take the necessary measures, if necessary." If I ask you the question, Mrs De Block, you will reply that this is a tax measure and that I must address the Minister of Finance. I'm afraid this ping-pong game will last a while. Perhaps it would be good to settle this point. Who's gonna answer me? You agree to tell me who's going to answer me earlier! The fifth criticism relates to tax escalation. The tax shift poses a problem in terms of the overall progressivity of the tax, which will be weakened. Indeed, if the return on personal taxes is reduced, which is progressive, and VAT and excise revenues are increased, which are not, the overall progressivity of the tax system is reduced. Moreover, we must talk about the evolution of progressivity within the tax system of natural persons. The question of the decile distribution of the impact of the shift tax in the case of the tax reform for natural persons has been raised on many occasions. What did the Minister of Finance tell us? He told us that it was not yet available by adding: "I have asked the Finance FPS several times, but it is very complicated, so it is not yet possible." If I understand correctly, minister, we normally aim at a target and then shoot. Your method is to draw first and then target, that is, once the FPS Finances has provided you with the data. That's kind of your reasoning. You are undertaking reforms on the tax of natural persons, but without knowing what the impact will be on the distribution in deciles. It seems to me that you put the plow before the ox. What is the aim of reducing the return on this tax and of increasing VAT and excise duties, which are more unfair? Mrs Van Cauter gave us the answer just now, saying that we should encourage work. In the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that the assets should be favoured. This means that this reform will be less favourable to those I find difficult to call "inactive". The pensioners always seemed to me to be people who had worked a lot and therefore had the right to a well-deserved rest. Similarly, an unemployed person is an unemployed worker. In any case, and this did not seem to make the MR too happy, this confirms that this tax shift is very favourable to employers, but not at all to pensioners. This idea is also set out in the explanatory memorandum. Ms. Van Cauter said earlier that there was a need to focus on the assets and thus to disadvantage pensioners and social beneficiaries. We received confirmation from our colleague from the N-VA that we were asking ourselves when we said that pensioners were a particular target for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u95	Sixth and final criticism: taxes on consumption are the most unfair and yet they are the ones that are increasing. We take the opportunity to make the public feel guilty by saying that it is her fault that she pays too much tax because her behaviour is inadequate in terms of the environment or health. So it's normal for her to pay by where she's sinning. We recalled earlier, with regard to VAT on electricity, the promises of Charles Michel, who claimed that he did not want to charge VAT. If we sum up Charles Michel's election promises in the last election, it was "no VAT no N-VA!" And we're picking up both of them! Two conclusions. The first is that this tax shift is a sort of big operation 11.11.11. in favor of the bosses. The second is that inequalities in the world of work are further increased. I understand why the Minister of Finance offered beer to the commission that adopted the tax shift. One could not drink Gini because its coefficient would be strongly shaken after the tax shift!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that a lot has already been said about the tax shift, perhaps even a little too much. In any case, the tax shift has the merit of launching a debate both inside and outside Parliament on a number of basic data on our socio-economic and financial order. In the end, we managed to push through an important fiscal reform in a relatively short time. At the start of the exercise the comments were quite derogatory. It would never work. Today, however, the answer is on the table. The project presents a reduction of EUR 8 billion, in addition to other important measures such as index jumps, wage moderation and the welfare envelope. The means are allocated in a balanced and intelligent way. In a balanced way, Mrs Onkelinx, thanks to the relationship between the reduction in the burden on employers and workers. Smartly, as these means will increase both supply and demand for jobs. It is therefore no surprise to me that, according to the conclusions of the National Bank and the Plan Office, jobs can be created through the tax shift. More specifically, these are 64,500 additional jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u97	Also at the level of purchasing power, the tax shift does not miss its effect. A person with a gross income of EUR 1 500 per month will already have 83 euro net per month next year. To 2019, this amounts to 146 euro net per month. A person earning 5 500 euros gross per month will earn 21 euros net per month next year and 74 euros by 2019. If you compare these figures, you will immediately notice the redistributing effect of the tax shift. Everyone is improving, but they with a lower income just more than the others. What is also extremely important in the tax shift is that we are putting the tax cuts into legal texts up to 2020. The tax shift is tied up with that. We are giving perspective to the working people and to employers, a perspective in which labour costs fall and work becomes rewarding again. I heard from the opposition's statements with the regularity of the clock that the tax shift and the budget are interwoven. Of course that is the case. With text, tables and explanations it may be clear to everyone that the tax shift, ceteris paribus, until 2018 is fully funded. If there is already an effect of the tax shift on the budget, it will be a positive effect. The creation of tens of thousands of additional jobs, specifically as a result of the tax shift, will reduce government spending, while increasing revenue, both at federal, regional and municipal level. The famous payback effects are real. I would remind you that the venerable National Bank of Belgium estimates them at no less than EUR 5 billion. The financing of the tax shift is not only fully planned until 2018, it is also economically substantiated. The increase in charges is aimed at income which is less growth-proof than the burden on labour. The main elements are non-work-related revenues, such as the fight against tax fraud, the increase in the personal expense, the transparency tax and the increased contribution of banks. Eco-taxation is also an important source of income. This includes higher revenues from diesel, tobacco and alcohol. More people at work, less public spending, a better environment for entrepreneurs and a more attractive investment environment: this tax shift is a proactive policy aimed at making our economy less dependent on the whims of the international economy and thus strengthening the structural backbone of our system. Not only will the tax shift help the budget and employment, it will also help to pay the pension bill in the coming years and decades, along with the efforts we are making to improve the viability of the lowest pensions, not only pensions, but also the whole social security. This tax shift strengthens our economic structure and makes our welfare state affordable in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u98	Mr President, as far as my part is concerned, it was mainly about the reductions in patronial contributions, both for the first recruitment and the linear reduction to 25%, with a strengthening of the reduction in the contribution to low wages. I should like to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee for the important discussions that have taken place there. I understand that this discussion will continue because there are still a number of issues that need to be discussed. I am thinking of the NAR's advice. We asked for this opinion on 23 October. There is already an opinion on the first recruitment and the linear reduction of contributions. However, it is a divided opinion, with employers for and employees against. In particular, it is necessary to monitor the measures taken. That monitoring has already been started and consultations are being held between my services and that of Mr Borsus, with the RSZ and the social secretariats in order to detect any abuse or misuse. As regards the financing of social security, 2016 will also be a transitional year. We use the same methods as the ones used in 2015. However, a new, more transparent method of financing social security must of course also be constructed. That is what we will be focusing on from now on. I hope to land it in the first half of 2016. There were a number of punctual questions about the evaluations that will take place. Those evaluations were discussed in committee. There was also the question why the intervention applies only to the Mint and to the Palace of Fine Arts and not to the National Orchestra. I did not hear the question of the National Orchestra falling at the table at which the intervention was discussed. However, I have also pointed out that, if there is a problem in this area, it will be resolved in due course. For the construction sector, the committee asked when we would sit around the table. That has happened in the meantime. There has been a first meeting with the people of the construction sector in my cabinet. They have already identified a first list of problems. Their main concern is social dumping. A number of measures will have to be developed against this practice. I would like to add to what I have said by Minister Borsus, who, in this section, is responsible for reducing contributions for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give Mr Gilkinet some answers. With regard to measures to reduce personal social security contributions for self-employed persons, I thank you for the unanimous support and, overall, thank you for the support of this House for measures in favour of SMEs. As we all know, recovery, activity, growth and employment require the evolution of our SMEs, their creation and the creation of wealth and activities that they can carry. Mr Gilkinet, we have been careful to monitor the measures. It is not to you that I have to say how much some measures, when not properly marked at first, can lead to considerable budgetary slippage. In this respect, we have provided for a limitation of the first employment commitment provision over a period of five years, and with Maggie De Block, we have taken note of the opinion of the National Labour Council, which is certainly shared but also very nuanced. I think there is one element of the trade union organisations that I believe should be retained, namely the provisions which make it possible not to add, in the event of a merger of undertakings, those which allow the exemption of social contributions from the first job. As far as construction is concerned, the figures quoted in this rostrum are correct. This is a sector with an increasing turnover, but we have talked about 17,000 and, more recently, 20,000 job losses in the space of three years. The government's response covers both a number of provisions already acquired in the framework of the plan to combat social dumping in the construction sector, adopted on the proposal of Bart Tommelein and with the support of a number of colleagues. It also concerns provisions on public procurement, which I confirm to you that the second reading of the approval of Belgian legislation, in line with European rules, is on the agenda of today's government. A series of provisions will give new tools to the public authorities in their ability to slow down, to lock down a number of tenders when it is considered fraudulently that companies use mechanisms of secondment or subcontracting. These provisions have been agreed with the sector and are in force. The appointment is indeed to be able to identify additional means of obtaining, in relation to this construction sector, a specific tax shift. We know that this sector already benefits from reductions in social contributions which bring them to the average rate that our decisions will achieve for all the occupational sectors. For a sector of this importance, specific provisions are needed to complement the action taken in the framework of the plan to combat social dumping, including regulations which will be amended shortly. Let us not elucidate all the work to be done at European level on social dumping, since our national response cannot suffice. I will conclude by thanking all the groups and indicating that the work has not been completed. A series of additional provisions still need to be decided. The neighbouring countries, our competitors, do not stand by. The arrangements to be made, I propose that you study them in the coming months. They will also involve the support and mobilization of all political, economic, associative and trade union forces, also through a social climate that I wish to calm as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u100	Mr President, Mr Borsus shouts loudly and speaks well! However, it is not that we have been able to answer all the questions that we have asked, far from that. I am thinking of Mrs De Block on the subject of the social maribel, and of the Minister of Finance, on the credibility of the revenue envisaged in compensation for the tax shift. There are too many negative points, too many questions that will require significant monitoring. In conclusion, this tax shift is not financed in a fair manner. You do not effectively affect the means you devote to it. This is a waste of public resources. None of the three of you is committed to supporting our alternative proposal, which aims to focus where it is necessary, on the lows and the wage means. That is how we will create employment, activity, an economic recovery which is obviously necessary, and whose principle we support, but not like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u101	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u102	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1520/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1520/7) The draft law has 153 articles. The bill has 153 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u103	•6 Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u104	•7 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u105	•1 – Meryame Kitir (1520/8) •2 – Catherine Fonck (1520/8) •8 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u106	•9 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u107	•10 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u108	•11 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u109	•12 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u110	•13 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8) •14 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u111	•15 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u112	•3 – Catherine Fonck (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u113	•4 • Ahmed Laaouej cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u114	•16 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8) •17 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u115	•18 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u116	•19 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u117	•20 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8) •21 Georges Gilkinet cs (1520/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u118	•5 – Ahmed Laaouej cs (1520/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u119	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u120	At the request of the proposers, I propose that the following legislative proposals be referred to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the legislative proposal (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Criminal Code as regards the proclamation that the rules or laws of religion or philosophy, and in particular Sharia, will apply or will be enforced on the public road, No. 755/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Civil Code as regards the premarital declaration of loyalty with which Sharia is renounced, No. 756/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Code of Belgian nationality with regard to the declaration of loyalty, in which it is stated in particular that Sharia, in any version or reading thereof, is renounced, No. 757/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Decree of 20 July 1831 on the swearing-in at the beginning of the constitutionally representative monarchy, concerning the withdrawal of Sharia, No. 762/1; - the bill (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) on the punishment of Belgians who, without general or special leave from the Minister of Defence, voluntarily enlist in the armed forces or similar armed groups of a Member State of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, No. 763/1; - the bill (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Criminal Code as regards the wearing, showing or possession and distribution of uniforms, flags, symbols or emblems of jihadist groups, No. 782/1; - the bill (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) prohibiting the wearing of headscarves or veils for federal government staff, No. 810/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) on the search for illegal aliens, No. 822/1; - the proposal (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives with regard to order in the Chamber and in the galleries, No. 889/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Filip Dewinter and Mr Jan Penris) to refine the police record of crime and the police statistics derived from it, taking into account the ethnicity of the suspected perpetrator of a crime, No. 1175/1; - the proposal for a resolution (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) establishing a central identification service for foreign nationals, No. 1412/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) on European policy against radicalism and terrorism, No. 915/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications with a view to establishing a procedure for the removal of Internet content that glorifies terrorism, No. 1279/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the proposed law (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) amending the Penal Code with a view to punishing those who proclaim that the precepts or laws of a religion or philosophy, in particular sharia, will be applied or imposed on the public highway, No. 755/1; - the draft law (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) amending the Civil Code with regard to the prenuptial declaration of loyalty, by which the sharia is denied, No. 756/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Filip Dewinter, Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) amending the Belgian Nationality Code with regard to the declaration of loyalty, whereby the candidate for Belgian nationality declares in particular to deny the sharia, whether version or reading, No 757/1; - the bill (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) amending the decree of 20 July 1831 concerning the oath to the implementation of the representative constitutional monarchy, with regard to distancing from the sharia, No. 762/1; - the draft law (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) punishing Belgians who, without general or specific authorization from the Minister of Defence, voluntarily engage in the armed forces or in a comparable armed group of a Member State of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, No. 763/1; - the proposed law (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) amending the Penal Code with regard to the wearing, exhibition or possession and dissemination of uniforms, flags, badges or emblems of jihadist groups, No. 782/1; - the bill (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) prohibiting the wearing of headscarf or veil for federal public service personnel, No. 810/1; - the bill (Mr. Filip Dewinter, Ms. Barbara Pas and Mr. Jan Penris) on the search for illegal aliens, No. 822/1; - the proposal (Ms Barbara Pas and MM. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris) to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with regard to Order in the House and in the Courts, No. 889/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Barbara Pas and MM. Filip Dewinter and Jan Penris) on the improvement of the registration of offences by the police and the refinement of the statistics resulting therefrom, taking into account the ethnic origin of the alleged perpetrators, No. 1175/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) on the establishment of a central identification service for foreigners, No 1412/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) on European policy to combat radicalism and terrorism, No 915/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, organising a procedure for withdrawing the content of terrorism on the Internet, No. 1279/1. The proposals were previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration, the Committee for Justice and the Special Committee for the Rules of Procedure and for the reform of parliamentary work. These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service, the Committee on Justice and the Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Work. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u121	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 8 December 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 8 December 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 092/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Patricia Ceysens and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Johan Klaps. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 092/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Patricia Ceysens and Mr Len Dierick and Mr Ceysens. Benoît Friart and Johan Klaps. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Mrs Demir voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u122	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 9 December 2015. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 9 December 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 093/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Sonja Becq and Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and MM. Philippe Goffin and Egbert Lachaert. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 093/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and by Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Egbert Lachaert. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u123	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u124	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 19. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 19. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 34 Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 20. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 20. (1520/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u125	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 21. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir on article 21. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 2 to Article 21 by Catherine Fonck. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck on article 21. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 21. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 21. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 31 Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Bogaert voted against. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 22. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 22. (1520/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u126	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 23. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 23. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 24. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 24. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 34 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Mrs Özen voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 25. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 25. (1520/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u127	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 26/1 (n). (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 26/1 (n). (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 32 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Vote on Amendment No 14 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 26/1 (n). (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 26/1 (n). (1520/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u128	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No. 15 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 26/2 (n). (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 26/2 (n). (1520/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u129	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck on article 27. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to Article 27. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 27 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 4 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Articles 43 to 85. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 4 of Ahmed Laaouej cs to Articles 43 to 85. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 44 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Articles 43 to 47 shall be adopted by article. Articles 43 to 47 were adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Georges Gilkinet cs on Article 48. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 48. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Georges Gilkinet cs on Article 48. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 48. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 34 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 48 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 48 was adopted. Articles 49 to 54 shall be adopted by article. Articles 49 to 54 are adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 55. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 55. (1520/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u130	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 55 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 55 was adopted. Articles 56 to 67 shall be adopted by article. Articles 56 to 67 were adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 68. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 68. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 13 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 68 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 68 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Articles 69 to 85 shall be adopted by article. Articles 69 to 85 shall be adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 92. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 92. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 51 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 92. (1520/8) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 92. (1520/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 92 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 92 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to omit Article 149. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to delete Rule 149. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 54 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 149 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 149 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u131	Colleagues, w e have come to the end of our work for 2015, only to thank you for the constructive way in which we have debated it. Thank you, too, for the fact that my fellow Members in the Conference of Presidents have very often managed to settle the work by consensus. And yeah, sometimes it's hard. And yes, I have deprived Mr Calvo of the floor. And yes, that was only meant to make you understand "to make his reputation even stronger than it already is." Mr Calvo is sick and even then he keeps us busy! So there appears to be such a thing as a Chamber-filling absence. Moreover, I must contradict the fact that I have taken the floor to Mr Inez De Coninck and that that would only be due to her last name. That's not right. That was only because of our Rules of Procedure. But all the crazy on a stick. This year, we have done important substantive work, operated and defended socio-economic choices that will transcend the chimeras of the moment and the short term. 2016 will also face us with an important security challenge. More than anything else, it is for our collective security and the defence of our values that majority and opposition join together. Together, we will demonstrate that our democracy is capable of resisting and ready to fight its enemies. I wish each of you a virtuous Christmas vacation, which we can spend with our loved ones thanks to our Christmas stock, where everyone has come out of the trenches, and therefore not with each other. On behalf of our chamber, I would also like to wish the Prime Minister and the members of the government a very pleasant end of the year, and to thank them for their cooperation. Our thanks and wishes for 2016 are also addressed to the Clerk and to all the House staff. Ladies and gentlemen, your applause speaks volumes. We all feel that the services of the Chamber are particularly adequate and always very present, for which we are grateful. We also wish the journalists who have followed our work throughout the past year. [[Applause]] And last but not least, I don't want to forget the military commander and all the security personnel at the Palais de la Nation. I wish you all a peaceful Christmas and a healthy 2016!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has vibrated again since the beginning of Parliament. The emotion was at the rendezvous following the attacks in Paris and elsewhere, at the thought of the victims of barbarism. Everyone here, ministers, Members of Parliament, all staff, journalists, we felt close to each other in defending our constitutional values and our democracy. I thank the Speaker of this House for finding the words to testify to this union. Colleagues, the emotion in this assembly plays on the whole range, from laughter to tears, in astonishment as well. Surprised by new skills and unknown talents among some of our colleagues. Surprisingly, for example, during the last ministerial reshuffle when a Secretary of State, Mr Tommelein, received additional competence, the urgency. Mr Tommelein, the man of the emergency, the man of the situation. Why the emergency? What's the situation? Whatever. As it is said in French: no matter what the bottle, as long as you have the drunkenness. And indeed, Mr. Tommelein gave us the turn! But also at the parliamentary level, talents have exploded: Mr. Vuye, who has been a football specialist since the beginning of the year and who invited me to the next game of the Red Devils; Mr. Nollet, the new tweetman who inflamed the French canvas after COP21; Mr. Miller, specialist of absolute all subjects, firefighter of service, a problem occurs within the majority, Richard is there too! I am also talking about Mr Van Rompuy, who ultimately only understands Mrs Galant's figures. I could also quote Mr Bonte, who, as we know, has become President Obama's new staff agent 007. There are talents. Some groups will say: and me, and me and me! Nature is thus made that some groups were already endowed with all the talents. I take an example at random: my group, of course. In any case, it would have taken talent in all the services of this Parliament, which had to work in terrible conditions of urgency and which multiplied the hours to better serve the legislative activity. They're our heroes and heroines of everyday life. On behalf of all parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen, whatever your function, thank you. We also know the fate of societies without independent journalists. And yes, ladies and gentlemen of the press, we often complained and saw over and against you, and that is normal: you should be much more positive towards us and much more critical of the others! But all in all, we know that we are fortunate to have you. To you, Mr President, to the members of the government and their collaborators, to the members of this Parliament and their collaborators, to the journalists, but perhaps above all to the members of the services and their families, I wish a very happy Christmas and a happy New Year. [[Applause on all benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1520/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1520/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-18-54-plenair-ip092x.u134	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 4 January 2016. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meetings of the week of January 4, 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 7 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 January 2016 at 2.15 p.m.
