ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I had addressed this question to Mr Jan Jambon because it seemed to me that civil status acts were the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I've been told that this matter is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice before sending me back to you. This question was tabled six months ago. I hope, today, to get an answer. What is my concern? During a birth, parents are confronted with a number of administrative procedures. The first of these is, of course, the declaration of birth with the competent department of the municipality in which the maternity is situated. In order to do so, parents must go to the communal house within 15 days of birth unless the municipality has other provisions. It is my responsibility that, in some Brussels municipalities, hospitals send the mother's identity card directly to the municipal services, which can only be recovered once the birth declaration has been made. While the law effectively obliges parents to declare the birth of their child within 15 days of birth, it also obliges every citizen to carry his or her identity card. In addition, some municipalities have been equipped to ease administrative procedures for citizens. On the Home SPF website, which is why I first asked Mr. Jambon: "In some municipalities, it is also possible to declare the birth of your child at maternity. The declaration to maternity takes place in approximately the same way as that to the communal house and offers the same guarantees in terms of the authenticity of the act. Hospitals and state services must be equipped with a common secure computer system, so that it is impossible to declare the same child simultaneously at the communal house and maternity." The computer system described is the eBirth platform launched in 2010. Minister, is the practice of sending the mother's identity card to the municipality legal? How many municipalities are currently connected to the eBirth platform? What were the objectives of the original project? Has the eBirth program been evaluated? Five years after the launch, why are not all municipalities connected to this system? Is there an agenda for networking of all municipalities on the eBirth platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Matz, eBirth's objective is to simplify, optimise and harmonise procedures between health care providers, municipalities and other actors within the Communities or federal administrations. The deployment of the computer solution requires each municipality to initiate eBirth in a synchronous manner with at least one maternity in the territory of the municipality. A common approach requires coordination of their planning, which does not always converge. An annual calendar is drawn up on the basis of the master plans communicated by the municipalities and hospitals. As of April 1, 2015, 52 communes are connected to the eBirth platform out of a total of 85 communes with maternity wards in their territory. The eBirth service is subject to continuous evaluation at several levels: the progress of the deployment of the eBirth platform among municipalities and maternity wards; the management of requests for improvement based on the collection of experience of use; the concern to meet the expectations of the Communities in terms of the quality and relevance of the statistical data collected through eBirth. The issue of sending the mother's identity card to the commune falls under the jurisdiction of Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u3	Minister, my question was addressed to him, but he refused to answer me on the grounds that this matter was not up to him. I wanted to know why the management of civil status documents was no longer the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior – which leaves me puzzled. He told me that she was dependent on justice. I turned to the minister concerned, who informed me that he would not answer me. In the end, it was the services themselves that directed the question, the basic question being whether there are maternity wards in Brussels which deprive parents of identity cards for a few days, the time they return from the administrations. It's apparently a practice that exists. I wish I'd checked it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u4	I wonder if we should not ask the Minister of Health, since these are hospitals. I'm trying to be creative! Nevertheless, you already have a part of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u5	That's right! Thank you, Minister, for the information on the platform. I assume that, in the coming weeks and months, the 30 municipalities not yet connected to the system will be able to do so quite quickly, despite the technical details that remain to be settled. Besides, I'll try to find the taker for my basic question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u6	The Chair Question No 4163 by Mrs Becq is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u7	Mr Minister, e-commerce in Belgium represents a turnover of 5.62 billion euros per year or 6.44% of the 87 billion in retail trade. There are 67,000 webshops active in Belgium, but most of these purchases are made through shops located abroad, most often from the Netherlands, where the rules are more flexible and the incentives are more numerous. It is estimated that 42% of online expenditure in Belgium is therefore flying abroad. Therefore, while the Belgian consumer's interest in e-commerce is very real and the potential, particularly in the area of employment, it is mainly foreign actors that are currently drawing their pins from the game. Your ambition is to change this situation and position Belgium in the top 3 digital markets in Europe by 2020. The Digital Belgium plan via the e-commerce platform, a recently established consultation body, is working on this. Therefore, Mr Minister, what are the structural weaknesses and handicaps of Belgian e-commerce highlighted at these consultation meetings? What are the solutions and actions envisaged to boost the sector and offer a Belgian alternative to the system giants? How do you allocate employment prospects that would target 30,000 to 50,000 new jobs according to your estimates? In your opinion, 'classical' or 'neighbourly' commerce could only benefit from an online posting of its services. The process requires significant financial, logistical and specialized labour resources, some of which are currently lacking. What means will be made available to small self-employed persons and SMEs to achieve this? What kind of assistance is planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u8	Madam President, Minister, the rise in e-commerce and Internet shopping has made it increasingly difficult for local self-employed people. Especially in neighborhoods located outside the large centers or in small cities, one has difficulty keeping one's head above water. A lot of people quit. This is evident from a study by the study firm Locatus. For the past five years, no less than ten thousand stores have closed the doors. The empty position is becoming more and more visible. Striking in the research is the difference with the big cities and the shopping centers. That's where the empty position is lower. It is also remarkable that the number of square metres on which the shops operate has increased to 18.5 million square metres. The average shopping area increased by 10 %, to 210 square meters. The bigger the shops, the more staff. The closure of small shops does not necessarily mean more job losses, according to the research. UNIZO proposes that cities and municipalities should do more to accommodate smaller shops. Busy zones need to centralize. Their active centres should be complemented by museums, swimming pools and other people's trekkers. This way more audiences are lured to the shopping areas. In order to counter e-commerce, retailers must embrace it. Mr President, are you aware of this development and of that solution? Do you want to support local authorities in this? If so, how? Are there plans to lower the threshold to e-commerce for the retailer and bring new developments to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, in the T.A. study. Kearney, published last April, which focuses on the attractiveness of states in the field of e-commerce, Belgium is ranked ninth in a ranking of thirty nations. According to this study, our country has achieved very good scores in terms of growth potential. Indeed, it would seem that the potential of e-commerce in our country is largely under-exploited. In Belgium, at retail level, 6.4% of purchases are made online, compared with 9.8% in Great Britain. It should also be noted that 80% of the largest e-commerce companies active in Belgium are companies located abroad. As I mentioned in a previous speech, this situation is simply due to a legal constraint prohibiting night work. Minister, a Digital Belgium Action Plan was launched in early May. The plan brings together public and private actors who have set priorities and set up working groups around various themes. Can you give us any information about this plan? What are its objectives? How long does it take? Can we talk about significant advances in e-commerce and night work authorization? Are there any legislative adjustments in this area? On what basis and on what agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u10	Madam President, I apologize for my late presence. We are currently running from one committee room to another. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u11	You could be on time because you don't have to be in numbers, ma'am. Minister, my question dates back a while ago. The first BeCommerce Market Monitor shows that the Belgian consumer made more than 20 million online purchases during the first quarter of 2015. This represents a total amount of EUR 2.1 billion. This means that 14% of all spending in Belgium is done online. Remarkable is the difference between goods and services. Of all services sold, as many as 60% were sold online, while goods were sold at 5%. To raise these figures, Europe is working towards a Digital Single Market, where creating an appropriate e-commerce framework is one of the workpoints. Through this new framework, Europe aims to prevent unfair practices, such as discrimination against consumers and businesses. Such practices sometimes occur when consumers and businesses within the European Union want to buy goods and services online or to have access to a certain content. Often nationality, country of residence and geographical location are at the root of the discrimination. Minister, what is the state of play in the search for an appropriate framework for e-commerce in Europe? How do the BeCommerce Market Monitor figures relate to the figures in other countries of the European Union? Thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u13	Even today noon, at RTBF, but I imagine you have something else to do than listen to the radio at noon. Clearly, the use of e-commerce in Belgium is growing and will continue to increase, as we are still below the European average. For the moment, if we look at the ten largest sites in Belgium, only three are Belgian, the other seven are not Belgian. In fact, we also see that a very large part of the consumption in our shops, which was practically non-relocable in the past, is now delocalized. Studies show that in the last five years about thirty thousand jobs have been lost due to the lack of the possibility of night work in logistics. However, there is another indirect economic impact, due to the fact that part of consumption is leaking abroad. Basically, when someone spends their wages in our country, they make investments, jobs and so on, and that's disappearing. So you're quoting a very pertinent point. I think we have started a little behind in our country, but there are a number of things on the move now. A first point mentioned is the Start-up Plan, which tries to fund start-ups. One element that is part of this, and which is pertinent to the questions you have asked, is the additional investment deduction for digital assets. This is an additional investment deduction of 13.5 % for investments in online payment systems and online security systems. Online payment systems help SMEs that would like to invest in e-commerce. The e-commerce platform has been running since the beginning of the legislature. The idea of this platform is to put all the players in the sector around the table and to make an inventory of the current constraints in order to try to better understand them. One of the elements highlighted was night work in logistics. As you know, social dialogue is under way and should end at the end of the year. I really hope that we will find a solution to this problem. Aside from this, a list of barriers to regulation has been identified, different taxation problems between different countries, particularly with regard to VAT and labour flexibility. Working groups are currently examining these issues. A next element that I started a few months ago is a awareness campaign to our SMEs, the Tournée Digitale. By the way, there's one here in Brussels tonight. I do that together with all the employees' federations, so the VBO, Voka, UNIZO, UWE and UCM. The intention is to land and explain for a bit which is mainly mobile commerce evolution is taking place. We talk about big data and about the internet of things. A few local entrepreneurs should always be given the opportunity to explain to their colleagues how they started doing this and to show how low-threshold it is. It is my sixth meeting tonight and a few more dozen are planned in the coming months. Besides, I am not the only one who does that: Minister Muyters does that in Flanders too. That's where it's called: "The Internet." Your case, too. I think it is good that we are working on it at different levels, because in this country we should, in fact, make it clear to our SMEs that this is an opportunity today. If we do not take that opportunity now, it will be a very great threat. I am convinced that one is not necessarily in competition with the other. There will always be physical shops, but they will have to think about how they will process e-commerce in their current approach. We have a number of Belgian companies that are quite leading in this, but as always, our middlemen and SMEs will have to be creative and on the tips of their toes. We do not want to stop progress, but we do want to help make the best possible transition. I come to your final point, your question about the European level. On 6 May, Commissioners Ansip and Oettinger presented the Commission's new strategy on Digital Single Market. I am generally satisfied with a number of e-commerce measures that have been taken. I am thinking in particular of three dossiers which have been put forward. First of all, there is the harmonization of consumer rights and of the contractual provisions relating to crossborder services. Secondly, there are a number of proposals for a drastic simplification of VAT legislation. Thirdly, there are the measures to make cross-border delivery of packages a lot cheaper. As you know, a major step forward has been taken in the area of roaming. I think that is a very good thing. However, delivery of packages across European borders remains very expensive. In my view, that is the new roaming and we need to see how we can get those tariffs down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u14	Madam President, Minister, a series of measures have been taken to change e-commerce in our country, including aid to SMEs. Moreover, in the field, e-commerce is developing by offering opportunities to work computerically. It's working well. The market is expanding strongly. But the great paradox, as you mentioned, is that exports of this trade are detrimental to employment in Belgium, while our country has an excellent reputation for logistics. That's a shame. The core of the problem is night work, work flexibility. There is more flexibility in the Netherlands and neighbouring countries. It is all about social consultation. I hope that in this area you will be able to bring back some of the jobs in Belgium. As you said, these are tens of thousands of jobs. I think that's the lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u15	Minister, it is right that e-commerce is not the biggest bottleneck within your competences, but primarily in the field of labour law. You will not be surprised that we support your call for a solution to night work as soon as possible. It is important that, in addition to that very big bottleneck, we also work on the other areas. As you rightly say, our SMEs will have to participate in this evolution. They have no choice. It's either that or disappear. The win-win situation for a physical shop with a webshop can be a huge asset for those shops opposite the pure online shops, where you can only see on a screen what you want to buy. I am also pleased with the European measures you have gone over. After all, there are certain things that people do not understand very well. If you book a holiday in Belgium, it can, for example, be more expensive or cheaper than if you book it with a Dutch e-mail address. No one understands that. That kind of thing should really come out. We are, of course, following developments closely and will continue to support you in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u16	Minister, I know that the second question on possible support for local authorities is not within your competence. However, I had originally asked the question to Minister Borsus and I hoped he would pass on the answer to his fellow Members. We live in a coastal municipality where there is an enormous amount of empty space, partly because of e-commerce. My concern is that we should reduce the centre. To do so, we must, of course, encourage traders to move closer together, but the municipalities have no money to do anything about it. In addition, the municipality wants to encourage shops to combine a physical store with e-commerce because it is more liveable, but we don't have enough money for that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u17	Minister, thank you. I'm sure the case is moving forward. In addition, consultations with the social partners are expected to be completed by the end of the year. I welcome this progress, because I am convinced that reserving the benefits of this form of economy to neighbouring countries is not a good thing. Belgium must make progress, building not only on existing businesses, but also on the development of e-commerce. Next year will be crucial in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u18	Madam President, Minister, bpost has just relaunched its Select Post campaign by sending 300,000 forms to Belgian households. Through a series of questions, the aim is to gain a better understanding of the interests and habits of the families concerned. The questionnaire addresses topics such as home maintenance, type of energy, leisure, shopping, future purchases, but also includes more intrusive or even sensitive questions (nee articles, alarm systems, etc.).). Samples and vouchers are offered to encourage people to respond. This data is then sold to advertisers or marketing agencies to carry out targeted campaigns, attract new customers or expand existing databases. Thus, bpost presents itself as a direct marketing facilitator, anxious to boost the sector by bringing advertisers and their customers closer together. Minister, how do you look at this? Consumer associations regularly denounce this practice. What do you think? Do beacons prevent certain drifts? How many such campaigns have been launched so far? How long have they been in existence? How are recipients selected? What is the response rate to this survey? How has it evolved during the different campaigns? What are the main demands of clients? Are they satisfied with the system? Finally, among the different services offered to companies by bpost, what is the attraction of this service? How many Belgian companies are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u19	Mr Blanchart, I refer to Mr Devin's oral question on the same subject. On that occasion, I had stated that if Select Post is part of bpost's business activities, it does not fall within ministerial jurisdiction. However, bpost informs me that the objective of Select Post is to allow consumers to select the mail that interests them according to their preferences, habits and projects. The data collected is then marketed by the company to advertisers wishing to reach customers interested or potentially interested in their products or services. Select Post is therefore a valuable medium for advertising mail addressed. The number and identity of companies acquiring this information is, of course, strictly confidential. This survey has been carried out regularly since 2005. More than 800,000 households participated in the questionnaire. This questionnaire is addressed to individuals who have already responded in the past. It is also addressed to households listed in databases leased to database providers, in strict compliance with privacy regulations. Any person indicating that he or she no longer wishes to receive the questionnaire is deleted from the database. The response rate to this questionnaire is around 20 per cent. bpost has complied with the regulations. A statement was made to the Privacy Commission. The processing of data by bpost is in accordance with the law. Select Post's terms and conditions impose compliance obligations on bpost customers who use the information obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u20	Minister, according to what bpost answers, it appears that they have taken all their precautions to respect privacy. We will be attentive and vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u21	Madam Chair, Minister, it is becoming increasingly common to have a partial occupation next to a main professional activity. However, the statistics show that at present many people do not report their complementary activity. Many, like you, would like access to a complementary activity to be made more flexible. However, a balanced tax framework must be found for both types of activity. A list of trades that can be carried out alongside the main occupation should also be drawn up, so as not to fall into traps rather than unfair competition. Minister, my questions are quite simple. How do you want to apply taxes and social contributions to these regulations? On the basis of what criteria do you want to separate the main trades from ancillary activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u22	Madam President, I have a reply here that I would like to read to you, but it is really not within my area of competence. I do not know how this question landed in my house, rather it should have been addressed to the Minister of the Middle Classes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u23	Always give the answer you have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u24	I will, but I don't think that's my field. Having said that, I am not opposed to expanding my skills. Mrs Jadin, I am convinced that we must continue to encourage, and therefore simplify, the status of self-employed as a complement. This status is indeed an ideal springboard to self-employment as a main activity. For young people too, it is a good way to enter the labour market, into the business world. In recent months, I have met with many young people who already had business projects during their studies and were establishing themselves as an independent in a complementary way. They explained to me, for example, that they do not know how to pay social contributions when creating a start-up which in itself already requires considerable financial resources. At present, self-employed people already have to meet a wide range of conditions in order to settle, and they, like others, have to pay social contributions and taxes. We are independent on a complementary basis if we combine with self-employment another professional activity. The conditions vary according to the type of main activity being carried out. For example, for employees, the main activity must represent at least half of a full-time job. Teachers must take at least six tenths of a full schedule. An independent person on a supplementary basis has the same legal obligations as an independent person on a principal basis, but without any additional duty. This government has already taken an important step in favour of the self-employed as a principal and complementary measure under the tax shift. Over the next three years, we will reduce the current contribution by 0.5% by 22% to a 20.5 per cent contribution in 2018. With the government, I will try to further modernize this status by making it more accessible, where necessary. However, to date, I have not set myself a specific objective in this area. In any event, I am committed to working in consultation with the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I have also asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Middle Classes, Independents, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration about this. I know that the demand for flexibility in terms of access to an additional activity in addition to a traditional contractual function does exist, including in some public undertakings. It is therefore with great attention that I will read the full account of your answers. In any case, I will not fail to support you when you relay this request usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u26	Madam President, Minister, on 5 May you replied to my question on the taxation of pylons and towers of telecom operators that you would start a consultation with the Regions on the disastrous impact of such charges on the economy and on the decisions on investments in network coverage. BASE had also stated at that time that it would no longer invest in additional masts in Wallonia because of that charge imposed by reasonably some Walloon municipalities and the Walloon Region. At the same time, of course, this levy also conflicts with the obligation of cover imposed when obtaining a licence. For example, a licence was auctioned at the auction of the digital dividend, which imposed specific coverage obligations in areas where there was currently too little coverage. The license was purchased by Mobistar. If there is too little coverage in a number of municipalities and an operator is required to provide more coverage in these municipalities as a priority while at the same time levying a tax, this is tantamount to a pig. So I have a few questions. Firstly, has the announced consultation already taken place and what were the conclusions? If not, when is the consultation scheduled? Secondly, to what extent are you prepared to suspend the coverage obligations contained in the licences for telecom operators for the municipalities or areas where a municipal or regional pylon levy is in force? I believe that you have a powerful instrument at your disposal. Can, will or will you use that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u27	Madam President, the meeting with Minister Marcourt was scheduled but did not take place in the end. I know, however, that there is a political debate going on at the Walloon region level about the pertinence of maintaining this type of pylon taxes. I do not have the latest information on what decision was finally taken there. There are, however, a number of lawsuits on that subject, at different locations. This is the case in the Walloon Region but also in Brussels. As regards your specific question on the coverage obligation, the BIPT has examined this and let me know that there is no possibility of temporarily reducing the coverage obligations in an allocated licence as a result of the Walloon pylon tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, a pity that the consultation did not take place. The file is now over a year old. I have tabled this question with your predecessor, Minister Vande Lanotte. Unfortunately, he was no longer able to respond in good time. So the discussion remains. This is problematic for a number of reasons, firstly because it strikes a pig like a tong, but also because it is an additional transfer. After all, who pays that charge? These are, of course, the customers to whom the operators pass this on. These customers are 60% in Flanders and this creates an additional transfer. It seems particularly regrettable to me that one region imposes obligations in this way. You say that there is no possibility of suspending or changing the coverage obligations in the licences already granted. That is a pity, but I believe that you will take this into account in future licences or in the renewal of licences. After all, you announced in your policy paper that you will start the study on the renewal of licences now. I therefore assume that additional conditions will be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u29	Madam President, my question is about the end of the CycloSafe system. At the end of June, bpost announced that it would terminate its stolen bicycle detection service, CycloSafe, which was launched in September 2014, due to insufficient demand. CycloSafe's goal, through collaboration between factors and police areas, was to facilitate the location and identification of pre-recorded bicycles in the event of theft. According to bpost, the system worked very well, but there was little interest or in any case a request deemed insufficient. Minister, how does the bpost company explain the small number of users (500 in 10 months) who have expressed interest in this service? Has an evaluation been conducted? Had a pre-feasibility study been conducted? If so, what risks had been identified, particularly as regards the interest of potential users? Will a similar service be developed in the future to replace CycloSafe, which therefore no longer exists? What is the estimated cost of this disappointing bpost experience? Are there figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u30	Dear colleague, since CycloSafe is not part of the universal postal service or services of economic interest, I can only refer to the communication of bpost on the occasion of the cessation of this project. With CycloSafe, bpost launched an innovative system in September 2014 to record bicycles and locate them and return them to their owners. This ten-month period has shown that bpost is able to develop this service effectively, but the consumer's demand for this type of service has proved insufficient to continue the project. All customers and bicycle dealers will be reimbursed by bpost. As with all projects carried out within bpost, feasibility, cost-effectiveness and risk analyses are carried out before starting the project. Detailed information on this subject is considered confidential. Why weren't clients interested? That's a good question. Maybe we have to ask them the question. I wasn't a client, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u31	Thank you for your answers. As you pointed out, it is a system, which I did not use either, but which had a priori, from the outside, the rather innovative air and to provide an interesting service. That's why we were interested. We will be paying attention to possible similar initiatives in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u32	Mr Minister, about six months ago, on 23 June, you replied to me that the study of BIPT, through Analysys Mason, was stopped by the withdrawal of Belgacom's request to compensate for the unreasonable burden imposed on the provision of social discounts. So they had applied for a contribution from that non-existent fund, but they were withdrawn when the study was almost finished. The study was therefore not completed, but it already cost BIPT EUR 250 000. That is a lot of money and these costs are passed on to the sector, to those who have to join the BIPT and therefore to every customer in the telecoms sector. That is a very unfortunate matter. What's the next move? Is the withdrawal of the request final? Can Belgacom later submit a request for the period 2005-2012 or for later periods? I assume that you can simply answer yes or no, especially if you ask for a new request. When exactly did the withdrawal take place? What was the state of the study and what were the preliminary conclusions at that time? It is important that we close this dossier definitively, so that we can no longer face a new question that will or will not be withdrawn. How can we finally close that file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u33	In principle, a new request for compensation may be made. The current legislation allows for retroactive compensation to be requested without the legislator having provided for a time limit. However, I must stress that, at the time of the withdrawal of the request for compensation, part 1 of the contract was completed, namely the elaboration of the calculation methods and the actual calculation of the possibly unreasonable burden on the provider requesting compensation, and was the subject of a draft decision of the BIPT. The draft decision was sent by BIPT to the provider concerned to identify the confidential elements with a view to the publication of the draft decision. Before the provider concerned and the BIPT agreed on a public version of the draft decision, the provider withdrew its request for compensation on 1 April 2015. As a result, the procedure was suspended. Therefore, for reasons of confidentiality, I cannot give you any preliminary conclusions. However, in the event of a renewed demand for compensation for the period 2005-2012 from the operator concerned, BIPT will continue the procedure where it has now been suspended, i.e. by launching a public consultation of the draft decision. I believe that the deadline for submitting a request for compensation for a possible unreasonable burden should be limited in time. The sector is responsible for financing any unreasonable burden on social tariffs. The fact that a request for compensation can be made retroactively until 2005 without specifying a time limit within which to apply for compensation means that the contributors to the social tariff compensation fund are in uncertainty for many years. I am currently considering whether the law can be adapted to provide for an outer starting period, on the one hand, for the reimbursement of benefits delivered from 2005 to the present and, on the other hand, for future benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for a much more comprehensive answer than last time. Your answer also expresses a certain voluntarism when you say that the existing period of legal uncertainty for the other operators must be terminated. That must indeed be done, and I look forward to your proposals; otherwise I propose that we add an amendment to a bill containing various provisions or to a subsequent telecoms law to limit that period. I am confident that I will take the initiative and support you in doing so, because it seems to me to be a very good thing. Once again, it is regrettable, as you have just said. The study was completed, the conclusions were formulated and a draft decision was drawn up. The question was subsequently withdrawn. I think that's playing with people's feet. You can't just let that go all over you. That needs to be completed. The fact that the question was withdrawn after the conclusions of the study were known is, in fact, self-evident. I think the conclusions were very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we might believe that the predominance of the Internet and of technological services, which are very accessible, free and whose response is as detailed as possible, is detrimental to the telephone enquiry service, namely 1307 in Wallonia and Brussels, 1207 in Flanders and 1407 in the German-speaking Community. However, the answer is more nuanced. Indeed, in 2014, 18 million calls were made despite Google, despite 4G and smartphones (which is better than in Europe). Eighteen million calls a year, it's equivalent to 50,000 calls a day – and it's not just older people calling. So, of course, the volume of calls runs from 10 to 12% per year (probably 15% for 2015). Four years ago, in 2011, 1207, 1307 and 1407 recorded 100,000 calls per day, which means 30 million calls per year. It is a reality: at present it is twice as much. This decrease also has an inevitable impact on employees. From 1,000 in 2000, there were only 300 in 2015. The service, managed by Belgacom/Proximus, takes an average call in 3 seconds and lasts from 29 to 30 seconds. Fast so but also easy and, most importantly, human. In addition, the Internet has limitations. For example, Google does not know that a person looking for the number of the Black Virgin actually wants to contact the disability allowance service. Similarly, Google also does not know that the boulevard de l'Automobile in Liège is the boulevard Froidmont. If Google doesn't know that, the 1307 collaborators know that! On the other hand, to return a tantinet to technology, the website 1307.be and its Flemish boyfriend, 1207.be, recorded an increase of 12 to 15% each year. The downside is that this telephone information service is no longer a universal service imposed on the operator. Therefore, Belgacom/Proximus could decide tomorrow to delete this service. Minister, do you have any assurances from Belgacom/Proximus regarding the maintenance of the telephone enquiry service, namely 1307? How long? Can you tell me what the cost of such an intelligence service is? Do you intend to further develop the 1307.be website in the future to include more information at the expense of telephone service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u36	Madam Chair, Ms. Cassart, the operation of Service 1307 is fully supported by Proximus without any public funding. Customers pay for the communication at a rate that depends on the operating expenses of this service, while website 1307 is completely free. Like any competitive activity, it seems logical that Proximus offers this service as long as it remains economically justified. For the time being, this company does not intend to abolish it. It has indicated its intention to bring innovations to its website 1307.be in the future, which are economically justified according to the evolution of the online directory market. At this stage, however, Proximus does not wish to elaborate further on possible innovations in a fully competitive environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think we're walking on eggs. We have to be careful in this case. My question opened with a plea for the necessary continuation of the two services. You have just said that no last public was invested in it, since 1307 is fully funded by Proximus. I would therefore ask you to keep an eye on this matter, because the 1307 really does a service to some citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u38	Madam President, Minister, it is good that we can discuss the social telecommunications tariff this afternoon. There are many legal proceedings on this subject, including at the Constitutional Court, and the operators have expectations. It is an explicit choice by this government to align the social telecoms tariff on the reality and the telecoms needs of the people, to protect us from the mattheus effect and to explore how we can best align the vulnerable target groups. The aim is still to limit the social telecoms tariff exclusion. The government has stated that universal service and social tariffs must keep pace with the evolution of telecoms and technology. In this respect, the fate of the social tariff for mobile telecommunications services is extremely relevant. Three times a year, the European Commission examines the need to update universal service. The importance of broadband and mobile services is currently being addressed. Mr Minister, my questions are very specific. Have you already decided on the future of the social tariff for mobile telecommunications services? When will the automatic allocation be completed? After all, the government's databases contain so much data. Social security has been a pioneer in the granting of automatic rights. It is already possible for the energy sector and now it is time for mobile telecommunications services to take place. Should it not be possible to regulate something conclusively for everyone, this dossier should at least launch the automatic granting of universal service rights. It would be good if the Belgian position were to be presented again this afternoon, in order to know how and in what direction we can steer Europe in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u39	Madam President, Mr Deseyn, mobile services have had a very limited success in terms of social discounts. In addition, I would point out that, among other things, the successive price studies of the BIPT show that the rate for mobile calls has fallen significantly. I believe that operators should be encouraged to voluntarily provide a low-threshold basic offer, including for mobile telephony, without the government obliging them to offer mobile social tariffs. My services finalise a proposal for a legislative amendment on the reform of the social tariff in that sense. Negotiations will soon begin within the government. An automatic allocation will be considered by the government after the reform of social rates has been dealt with. Meanwhile, all the computer application automation project for the management of the database with the beneficiaries of the social tariff was completed by BIPT. The project reduces the manual processes of granting a social tariff by providing direct access to the authentic data sources in the verification of applications. As you point out, universal service is an evolutionary concept. Therefore, the European Commission normally conducts a three-year review of the need for the scope of the universal service obligation, so that it can be revised in accordance with Article 15 of Directive 2002/22/EC. The European Commission launched an open call for tenders in April 2014 for the fourth revision of the scope of universal service. The study is ongoing and will focus, inter alia, on the importance of broadband access and mobile services. Depending on the outcome of the analysis, the European Commission will propose an adaptation of the scope of universal service. Pending the conclusions of the above study and the European Commission's proposal based on it, there is no point in taking a position on the European Forum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u40	Minister, what people are spending on telecom services is really happening multichannel: mobile data, mobile telephony and so on. We need to look not only at their basic spending, but at incentives to add something extra to the target groups, either by a percentage reduction or by a reduction in absolute figures on the general telecom bill. If we continue to segment and think within the classic boxes, we will not be able to get out of it. The reality is catching up with packs and shakes and what is even more common in the telecommunications sector. In this sense, the argument does not go far enough that we should look at the basic package. If this is generally accessible, there will have to be something on top of that for the target groups. It is a good thing that there is an incentive to automation, that the databases are getting ready and that there are fewer manual processes. That's a first step. Now it has to be automatically linked to the billing. With regard to the position taken at European level, perhaps you can wait a little longer for the investigation. However, it would be a good thing, since Belgium is quoted in the telecoms sector because of a number of best social policy practices, which Belgium also takes the lead and defends a creative proposal in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u41	Minister, since you are an exceptional minister, I will ask you an exceptional question, to which only a visionary can answer! This concerns Vision 2020. It has three main axes: centralization and automation of mail preparation in the 5 IMCs (Industrial Mail Centers), centralization of package sorting in the new Brussels sorting centre and centralization of distribution in sixty Mail Centers. This programme reflects the desire to maximize profit and production lines. The decline in traditional volumes, including letters, and the reduction in costs would have motivated these strategic choices. Thus, e-substitution represents the biggest threat to bpost and is one of the factors involved in the growing decline in mail (-5%). The various ministries account for 10% of bpost's market share. This is a development in our society, which is certainly beneficial for the environment. In this context, however, we must ensure that citizens can still choose whether their contacts with the administration are done by paper or by electronic means. I am fully aware of the need to evolve in this area. It still seems to me important to recall the employment challenges of such changes, as the causal links between the volumes distributed and the number of jobs at bpost are clearly identified. Minister, how is this development integrated into bpost management? What is the potential impact on employment? Do the new services offered by bpost counter this effect and compensate for the loss? What happens if, tomorrow, the public authorities switch to e-mail, knowing that the FPS Finances is the largest customer and that all FPS and all levels of power account for a few tens of millions of euros? Is this possibility currently under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u42	Dear colleague, the bpost strategic plan takes into account a decline in mail volume by an average of 5% per year. To respond to this situation, the company has developed a strategy based on the following pillars: focus on core activities, innovation and growth in key skills and continuous improvement in productivity. To date, this plan has proved its worth. I refer to the positive operating result, the increase in quality and customer satisfaction in recent years. In terms of employment, the strategic plan foresees a reduction of 1,000 full-time equivalents in the coming years, mainly due to natural attrition. In 2014, the packages and new services offered by bpost were able to fully offset the losses due to the substitution by e-mail. A significant part of the public authorities' communication is already done by electronic means. I refer, for example, to Tax-on-web or the Bank-carrefour des entreprises. This substitution is already reflected in bpost figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u43	Minister, we must be careful. The element I mentioned in my question is not the only one. Theoreticians and bpost managers praise the company's operating results, customer satisfaction etc. But it is well known that many jobs are being eliminated. Plans are in place (Alpha plan and others) and represent a real threat to employment, although some figures are flattering for the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u44	Minister, I wonder about the future of managing the real estate assets of bpost in the broad sense. The law continues to impose one post office per commune. The bpost company owns or rents the buildings in which it operates. The future of the company requires a long-term vision and good family management of its assets. Would we be able to inform ourselves of the real estate policy pursued within bpost? Among the various buildings that host post offices, what is the proportion of those that it owns and of those for which it is a tenant? Has there been any change in recent years? How many buildings have been sold since 2014? bpost makes a lot of use of contract and rent back during some sales. In what cases? Why? What is the financial return of this type of transaction over the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u45	By carrying out its strategy, the Mail Department of bpost leaves the platforms and post offices to the 60 email centers. This migration leaves buildings and spaces empty. If the building is completely empty, it will be put on sale. If it is still occupied by the retail, so the counters, the possibility of the sell and rent back is evaluated. In this case, the building is sold and the square metres necessary for the operation of the windows are re-rented. If a sell and rent back is not possible, a smaller building is rented. 40% of bpost buildings are owned. Since 2014, some 40 buildings have been sold. As far as the municipality of Lobbes is concerned, bpost has rented a place on the town square, at number 2. The building at number 8 of rue de l'Entreville is for sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u46	As far as the municipality of Lobbes is concerned, since my question was drafted, I have indeed seen the installation in the new offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u47	Question No 5737 by Mrs Vanheste is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u48	Madam President, Minister, last August the press echoed a well-known phenomenon of scams that still seems to work as well. These are scams with overtaxed numbers (0900), a technique that would still have caused many damage, especially among the customers of the Base operator. Currently, the only way to stop the fraudulent use of such a number is for the operator to file a complaint with the Ethics Commission, an independent body responsible for ensuring the correct use of paid numbers and compliance with the Code of Ethics for Telecommunications. If the Commission finds fraud, it may then ask the IBPT to block the number. This procedure takes time and is ineffective in the face of mobile and well-organized fraudsters. For some operators, the solution would involve aligning the legal environment surrounding the 0900 numbers with that of paid short text messages used for TV games and contests, which would involve setting up a public database. In addition, it would appear that in early 2015, the IBPT attempted to put in place a follow-the-money strategy consisting of contractually delaying what operators pay between them for these calls, so as to have time to detect the scam before the fraudster faints with his money. However, this initiative would not have been successful yet. Minister, have you had any contact with the IBPT on this issue? What do you think of the solution proposed by the operators? Do you think that legislation similar to that for text messages, including the introduction of a cadastre, would help to stem this phenomenon? What about the IBPT strategy? Why has this strategy not been successful? If this strategy has been abandoned, are you considering another strategy? Part of the problem would be due, according to the IBPT, to the lack of communication between operators. Would it not be possible to give the IBPT a role of facilitating communication between them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u49	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. The IBPT has informed me of the actions it has taken to address this issue. The IBPT has already developed, irrespective of a prior judgement of the Ethics Commission, a practice of inviting operators to block a number if the number is misused. This process allows for the very short-term termination of certain situations involving the misuse of a number and has been implemented approximately 25 times by the IBPT. A working group exists to increase the level of transparency in the field of numbers 0900 and 070. The advisability of creating a data bank must certainly be taken into account. The IBPT also strongly urges operators to make full and effective use of contractual opportunities to slow down or cut financial flows to fraudulent service providers. Introducing legal measures to slow down financial flows to fraudsters is another possible solution. The feasibility of these options has already been discussed in the sectoral working group and further discussions are planned in December 2015. If the working group fails to find solutions, I will support all proposals to improve the current situation, whether through legislation, regulation or regulation. It is unacceptable that the problems encountered in this sector have been dragging on for ten years already! In light of the Brico file, the IBPT brought together all the parties concerned. As a result of this initiative, the working group was established. It seems to me that the IBPT is already playing a role of mediator and facilitator. I can only encourage him to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer and for taking this problem into account. I take note of the fact that you have the will to land because this problem has been going on for ten years. It is positive that a working group has been set up and that the IBPT plays its role as facilitator. We now hope that concrete proposals will emerge. We'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u51	Neither Mrs Schepmans nor Mrs Ben Hamou are present, but we must move forward. They will get an answer through the exchange between Mr. Vanden Burre and the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u52	Mr Minister, last July, it was announced that bpost would close two of its post offices, although extremely frequented, in the lower part of the municipality of Molenbeek. It is the signs of the Ghent roadway and Leopold II Boulevard that are concerned, while the office of the Rue de la Mélopée remains open. For his part, bpost invoked the opening of a brand new office, where seven windows would be available, compared to a total of eight for the two closed offices, and the setting up of a Post Point on the Ghent road. The result of these closures will be to reduce further the number of post offices in the territory of Molenbeek - two for some one hundred thousand inhabitants - and to overload the other signs further. Moreover, it is one of the poorest neighbourhoods in the commune that will be affected by these abolitions. So what about the postal company's public service mission? Minister, have these closures been the subject of consultation with local authorities? If so, was their opinion respected? On the basis of what criteria was the location of the new, relatively out-of-centre post office selected? Is the socio-economic profile of neighbourhoods in the same municipality taken into account when establishing post offices? The opening of a Post Point was also promised, but within what period? Finally, is an assessment of the new situation and the quality of service planned, and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u53	Mr Vanden Burre, bpost has made the decision to group two former offices into another, much more modern one. The condition of the Molenbeek-Sainctelette and Molenbeek-Crystal Palace buildings did not allow the necessary renovations to be undertaken. As a result, bpost has chosen to invest in a more modern infrastructure to improve service to its customers. Thus, the new office is more easily accessible to people with reduced mobility and is located close to a metro station. The staff resources remain the same and the systems are more suitable with, among other things, a dedicated space for financial advice and an area of self bank. Modernisation in Molenbeek leads to an increase in the number of points of service. On 1 January 2014, the number of points of service was 14. At the end of this year, after the opening of two additional Post Points, the municipality of Molenbeek will have 17 service points. After exploring for several years, bpost opted for the localization of Dubois-Thorn 2 Street, because this location met the surface needs. With regard to the Molenbeek-Osseghem offices, rue de la Mélopée, 36, there is currently no project. With regard to staff, there is no dismissal. The staff of the two combined offices are attached to the new offices. As regards the network of postal service points, bpost must meet certain numerical and geographical criteria which are included in the 1991 Act and the management contract. These are at least 1,300 points of service, including 650 post offices, i.e. 1 post office in each of the 589 communes. At least 95 per cent of the population must have access to a postal service point within 5 kilometres by road. These criteria are fully met by bpost. Several other factors are involved in the choice of bpost: population density, socio-economic parameters, customer potential and commercial considerations. Post Points are not only open in large areas but also in local shops, such as booksellers, telecom stores, etc. Within the Brussels Region, which accounts for about 10% of the country's population, the bpost network has 34 post offices and 91 Post Points, representing 9.5% of the total network. Brussels has an average population of 3,700 per point of sale compared to an average of 3,900 agglomerations. In addition, the network is constantly being upgraded and adapted to the needs of customers. This ongoing adaptation of the network and improved procedures at the window has led to a reduction in wait times of 6 to 4 minutes over the last four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, you refer to all the conditions contained in the management contract. They are respected in Brussels and throughout Belgium. In your reply, two points were not addressed, in particular the one relating to local authorities. I don't know if there was any contact. The problem is not the post office itself, it is the location within the commune that is very dense. This is the most important point: bpost gives the impression of abandoning the very popular and very modest neighbourhoods of Molenbeek, which constitute whole sections of the municipality. It is on this point that we wanted to intervene. In this regard, you did not really answer the question or the local authorities. We will pay attention to this issue and will not fail to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u55	Madam President, Minister, I am informed by the press that bpost is replacing or securing its 14,000 mailboxes across the country in order to avoid theft of mail. Indeed, it was following flights, which were quite rare, that bpost decided to act. Once the changes have been completed, it will be almost impossible to have access to mail, whether with a clamp or with a password. So it will take a personalized badge to open them. Mail theft mainly concerns invoices. These are then trafficked, so that the money comes into the account of the scammers. The number of mail flights is quite marginal and there are very few complaints. Minister, do you have an agenda for the installation of new secure mailboxes? If so, can you communicate it to me? Can you tell me if the 14,000 mailboxes will be replaced or if some will be secured? On the basis of what bpost criteria does it decide to replace? Why did you decide to install new secure mailboxes, so the number of flights is quite marginal? How much is it going to cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Cassart, bpost has already begun to secure the red mailboxes. This securement consists of the installation of an additional lock and will be completed in March 2016. In addition, new mailboxes will be put into service from 2016. These mailboxes meet the highest safety standards. It goes without saying that bpost will give priority to high-risk mailboxes (nature of mail, vandalism, attempted theft, condition of the current mailbox). The criteria also determine subsequent deployments. Although the risks are rather limited (by way of illustration, on average 100 complaints out of 550 million invoices per year), bpost has decided to make this important investment in the security of the postal network. The integrity of this network and the trust in it cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u57	Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u58	Questions No 6155 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, No 6374 by Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, No 6410 by Mr Benoît Friart and No 6544 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u59	Madam Chair, I had already raised this point during the committee debates on the bill, voted last week, paving the way for the privatization of bpost and Proximus. I had raised the point that Ecolo-Groen supported the governance portion of the bill, that it was no longer the government that appointed the directors, but that the general meeting and the board of directors subsequently appointed the chairman of the board of directors and the CEO of those companies. The question that I asked you and that I am sitting here in oral question relates to the appointment of Mr. From Gucht to the board of directors of Proximus, decided last September by the government. My question is not about personality, but rather about Mr. From Gucht. During the spring, Mr. Stefaan De Clerck, Chairman of the Proximus Board of Directors, had expressed the greatest doubts about the potential appointment of Mr. From Gucht. But my question is about the process, not the person, so that things are clear. Minister, with the new legislation, direct government appointments will no longer be possible. Why did you make an appointment in September that is very closely related, in any case from the outside, to a political and political appointment? What criteria and procedures have been applied by the government for the appointment of members of the board of directors of public enterprises? What criteria were used in the case of Mr. From Gucht? Were other candidates considered and, if so, was a specific selection committee set up? On what objective basis has this committee made its decision? Reports, consultations? How did this appointment take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u60	The bill amending the law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises was passed in this Parliament last week. The procedure followed for the appointment of Mr. De Gucht is provided for by the law of 21 March 1991 in the form it knew at that time and by the statutes of Proximus which provide for the appointment by a royal decree issued in the Council of Ministers after consultation with the board of directors which makes a recommendation on the opinion of the board of appointment and remuneration of the company. Sections 22 and 59 of the Act of 21 March 1991 and section 17 of the Proximus Statute determine the requirements to which the election relates. These include incompatibilities. Mr. De Gucht does not contravene these provisions. Article 18 then provides that the State shall appoint the directors from among the eminent members of the business or academic community on the basis of their competence in the legal, economic, financial, social or telecommunications fields. The preamble to the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 highlights the considerations according to which Mr Karel De Gucht was chosen: for example, his experience as European Trade Commissioner and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister, his position as Professor of European Law at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel or at the Institute of European Studies; his experience in the business world as a member of the Advisory Boards of many companies. The choice of the candidate proposed to the board of directors of Proximus falls within the competence of the government and the appointment of Karel De Gucht took place in full conformity with the procedure laid down by the law of 21 March 1991 in the form it took at that time and by the aforementioned article 17 of the statutes of Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. There were two things: firstly, the astonishment of your intention in the law since it was done two months before this law was discussed in terms of governance; secondly, the second point which will be relayed at European Parliament level, the question posed by the fact that Mr. De Gucht was European Commissioner, since a period of cooling off must normally be respected. Commissioner De Gucht's role in some negotiations and the fact that he is now the administrator of a large telecom group raises questions that we will relay to other levels. That was also the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u62	To date, we can read on the Proximus website that this company covers and holds a million hotspots across Belgium. These hotspots boost and improve the connectivity of the population. The whole network is made possible thanks in particular to a partnership with a Spanish company, Fon, and thanks to the opening of a second network. I have two questions for you. The first is how customers can choose whether or not to open this network to the public. The second question is how to boost and exploit the coverage of the territory through this technique. In particular, the aim is to see how this interface, which the company Fon proposes, would make it possible to highlight the made in Belgium through a series of applications by Belgian companies, through this platform which allows the connection to this hotspot network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u63	Each Proximus customer automatically has access to all Fon hotspots in Belgium and abroad, provided they have not refused to share their own access. Non-client users at Proximus can subscribe to the service by paying a sum depending on the duration of use. Customers are informed of the process of joining or withdrawing from the Fon community via the confirmation letter sent to them at the time of subscription to the Internet service. Any customer can always refuse by calling the free number 0800 20 640. Users can also enable or disable the Fon function via myProximus or via their modem. For the Fon service, Belgium is at the penetration level at the top of the countries covered by Fon. At present, the equipment of the Fon network and those of the wi-fi networks deployed by the cities referred to here as digital cities are not compatible. Therefore, integration of the two types of networks is not on the agenda at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u64	Thank you for your double answer. As far as integration is concerned, I will come back to understand better how this mix of technologies will in the future make it possible to better cover the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u65	Mr Foret, you have the floor to put your question No 5306 on "the digital revolution in Belgium".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u66	Madam President, here is a fairly general question about the digital revolution, to which the Deputy Prime Minister responded as part of his policy brief. In line with the issue of coverage, can the Minister clarify how the 5G coverage is to be placed in a useful order. Could the minister briefly repeat his answer? If not, I will confine myself to the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u67	This question was answered in the context of the policy note. Minister, will you provide Mr.Foret with the written answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u68	I will refer to that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u69	Thank you, Mr. Foret. This question is therefore transformed into a written question. Questions No 6824 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, No 6978 and No 7022 by Mr David Geerts are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u70	Madam President, Minister, on the night of Wednesday 21 to Thursday 22 October, the staff of the five bpost sorting centres (Brussels, Charleroi, Liège, Antwerp and Ghent) decided to conduct strike actions in protest against the MSO plan, which provides, inter alia, for Saturday work to be treated as a weekly work, resulting in the abolition of the two hours of compensation granted to employees for weekend work and their replacement by a net annual premium of 240 euros. In addition, the same staff objected to the introduction of flexible working hours for 15% of workers, as envisaged by management, and to the future amendment of article 29 of the 1991 Public Enterprises Act, which stated that the recruitment of statutory employees within the latter was the rule. Since then, the law has been adopted and the MSO plan has been endorsed by the company following an agreement with the unions. On Monday, 26 October, it was decided to continue the strike movement in the absence of a response from the bpost management and the strike pickets remained in place in front of the sorting and transport centres. bpost then appealed to the courts of first instance in Brussels, Liège and Charleroi in order to obtain the lifting of the pickets which paralyzed the sorting centres of these three cities and won the case. As a result, bpost has engaged interims in order to overcome the backwardness generated by the social movement. In fact, 43 temporary workers were recruited to replace the strikers at the Charleroi X sorting centre. Minister, it is on this last point that I would like to ask you the following questions. What were the specific tasks and functions of these interims? What is the duration of this mission? Will the interims remain employed by bpost after this replacement mission due to the social movement? Unless I am mistaken, a temporary work firm cannot place or keep temporary workers at work with a user in the event of a strike and a user cannot appeal to temporary work when a strike is under way in his or her company. This is governed by collective labour agreement 108 made compulsory by the Royal Decree of 16 July 2013. Do you confirm that there has been a violation of the right to strike? What do you intend to put in place so that this doesn't happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u71	Madam President, I will not restate the whole context, since this has been done and done well. So I come directly to my questions tabled a while ago. Minister, what is the situation? Has there been an in-depth discussion with the unions on the reorganisation of the company to restore confidence in the staff? What are the measures taken by this reorganization plan and their impact on workers? Has there been any consultation with the company to manage the situation and assess the appropriateness and legality of certain decisions taken to manage the crisis - I am thinking in particular of the interims?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, last month's actions cannot be regarded as a large strike movement, but are the initiative of a single union. The means chosen - among other things, the blocking of the three sorting centres - have had a significant impact on service delivery. The use of interim measures follows an exceptional situation arising from actions recognized as unlawful by the three presidents of the courts of first instance. As a result, Bpost has taken urgent operational measures, including the use of temporary agency workers, on the one hand, to eliminate the workload in circumstances acceptable to colleagues and, on the other hand, to eliminate the delay in sending correspondence and packages. In a gesture of appeasement and in order to contribute to the social dialogue, the management of the company decided to suspend the use of temporary workers on the sites of the sorting centres which were damaged by these actions. Once again, the reinforcements were only intended to remove the congestion caused, in order to ensure proper delivery times for customers while providing acceptable conditions for staff. This was in no way an obstacle to the right to strike. On the legal level, Bpost remains convinced that it has sufficient arguments to defend the thesis that the use of temporary agency workers to cope with the consequences of illegal actions cannot be equated with the use of temporary agency workers in the event of a strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u73	Minister, thank you for these answers. I'm not totally convinced. All existing regulations and collective agreements will need to be re-examined. You invoke the fact that the movement was not so broad and was limited to a single union. For the future, it is clear that these processes seem to us to be extremely problematic. You have also stressed this; we must all bear in mind the objective of a peaceful and constructive social climate. We believe that this kind of recourse to temporary work, even if it is exceptional, does not promote social, peaceful and constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u75	It is clear that there is a right to strike, but the blocking of a work site is of a different nature. Preventing others from working is something else. This was clearly the case in the sorting centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u76	Mr. Vanden Burre, you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u77	Madam President, it's not for the game to have the last word. Minister, I understand well, but perhaps there are alternatives to calling for interims in social dialogue. This is the last resort to be avoided absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u78	Minister, it has been a while since the European Parliament approved the compromise on the new rules on roaming and net neutrality with the Council. As far as the latter is concerned, I believe that operators should not, in my view, discriminate negatively against websites or services and should not, therefore, delay or block them. An absolute ban on negative discrimination against traffic on the Internet is essential in these times. This is a story of free opinion. It is also an enabler for new technology and new services. Fortunately, one can increase the attractiveness of mobile internet with zero rating. As you know, I have repeatedly broken a lance before that. I think it increases the attractiveness of mobile internet for people who are still on the less favourable side of the digital divide. This is an outstretched hand to help them cross that gap. The most sensitive point for advocates of a very strict, fundamentalist interpretation of net neutrality is that one may offer a kind of second lane with a guaranteed quality of service, in addition to the regular best effort internet. Personally, I think that is essential. Nobody likes to watch a best effort Proximus TV. Those who watch the Champions League on Proximus TV, while their child downloads a large file, do not want to influence their television quality. That is why there is a need for a guaranteed quality of service. This offers a large number of new potential applications. That possibility opens the door to a number of risks and sensitivities. I understand those sensitivities. That is why guarantees are needed. They are also included in European legislation. For example, the specialized services should not have a negative impact on the regular best effort internet. That must be controlled by the national regulators, with us the BIPT. Operators therefore need to invest further if they want to offer new services. Transparency about who takes precedence is also very important and will have to be done in a more clear and readable way than in the fine print of the general terms and conditions of the operators. In what way will the BIPT monitor the quality of the regular best effort internet? Are the current samples to be continued or will the implementations of the quality of service be requested from ICPS on the spot? Will the ICPs have to ask for permission from the BIPT when they wish to offer a third party a guaranteed service? What additional resources does BIPT need for this? What is the budgetary impact on the BIPT budget and on the payments to the Treasury? In what way will BIPT monitor and enforce transparency in traffic management? I really think Telenet is an example. On the website of Telenet is very nicely worked out and explained in an understandable way which rules Telenet uses. Will the BIPT itself provide an overview of the priority rules among the different operators or do you see other ways? How will that be enforced? Finally, what national legislative changes are needed to strengthen BIPT's supervision of these rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u79	Madam President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of October the European Parliament voted for the adoption of the legislative package on telecommunications, including, in particular, net neutrality. MEPs voted on a series of proposals, including the abolition of roaming charges and the establishment of European principles on net neutrality. All the proposed amendments were rejected. The aim of these amendments, however, was to clarify certain areas of shadow that remain in the texts. They were intended to make legislation fully transparent and would also have allowed States to have less scope for action. Indeed, some articles of the legislation will thus give the different EU states a relatively wide margin of manoeuvre, which will prevent access to the Internet from being perfectly equal in all EU countries. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the federal government's commitment to net neutrality? What new measures will be applied in Belgium when this European Commission decision is transposed? As you can see, there are still many areas of shadow in the texts voted on. What is your position and that of the federal government on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u80	The IBPT will monitor the development of technologies and products on the market very closely. The need for intervention has not yet been established. The IBPT also participated in the framework of the BEREC in the creation of a technical framework to monitor the overall quality of the Internet. In accordance with this framework, the IBPT may impose minimum quality requirements, if necessary. So far, BIPT has not itself checked the quality of the internet, but that will change. There are two options for BIPT, namely to build something yourself or to certify an access mechanism. It will also examine the possibility of a joint European monitoring system within BEREC. The cost per regulator is estimated at 100 000 euros. The BIPT budget could carry the additional expenditure in a structural manner. The telecoms law does not need to be amended as the regulation takes precedence over national law. The IBPT is ready to apply this rule. Based on the telecoms law, BIPT already requests the quality of service implementations. The Regulation does not contain any articles requiring prior authorisation for quality or service to third parties. The BIPT is already in the process of checking the transparency of traffic management, which was imposed by Article 113 (5) of the telecoms Act. The IBPT does not know which technologies and products will still be launched. Because of this uncertainty, these grey areas will be specified on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of an in-depth investigation where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u81	Minister, you spoke of the minimum level of quality that can be imposed. I hope that we do not have to go back on that, because today's level is a lot better than the minimum quality level. That competition plays there and works well there. I am very pleased that you are replying that strict supervision will be exercised by the BIPT, that these implementations will be effectively requested if necessary and that the necessary resources will be made available. It is very important that we can effectively guarantee citizens that the quality of their Internet connection remains at least the same and will even improve. I also note that the initiatives you are taking in this area, like the regulation that has been adopted, are in line with the resolution that was previously adopted in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u82	I have taken note of the response of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u83	Question No 7190 by Mrs Inez De Coninck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u84	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Test-Achats has just released a study that demonstrates what was anticipated: on the internet, the actual download speeds are far from those announced by the suppliers in their advertisements, while the price is up to the price. On the basis of 145 000 tests carried out on a website, this is not nothing, Test-Achats estimates that the additional cost incurred by consumers - the difference between theoretical speeds and actual speeds compared to subscription prices - is estimated at an average annual amount of 227 euros per subscriber, all operators combined. According to the association, one in two consumers does not reach 50% of the promised speed. She said that one in five consumers even had their connection speed capped at 25% of their capacity. These figures demonstrate how illusory transparency in a market with such technical implications is. Minister, do you confirm the numbers of Test-Achats? How do you explain such a difference? Do you think that the operators have engaged in false advertising? Will you instruct the IBPT to investigate these facts? Is this body sufficiently equipped to enforce consumer rights? Finally, even if Mr Peeters is also competent in this matter, I would like to ask you whether you intend to put an end to this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u85	Minister, again, I will not go back to the context that has just been recalled. Ms Lalieux spoke of 227 euros of additional costs for each subscriber. So we come to a total of seven million euros. I come to my questions. Have you tested your connection speed on the site related to this question? How do suppliers set their download speed policy? Are their information and practices controlled by your administration? Do you intend to question them so that they can review their policy? Finally, do you intend to adopt specific measures to ensure that the promised speeds correspond to the actual speeds? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u86	Dear colleagues, I have indeed tested my speed of connection. I say that I live in the middle of cows and sheep, so in a fairly rural area. My average is between 80 and 100 megabits per second - which is not bad. That said, it is important to take the test in good conditions. Typically, when you want to check the speed, you have to do it from a physical connection, UTP, and not on a wifi router. In the latter case, there is a slowdown. That is part of the question asked here. The numbers of Test-Achats must be nuanced, as they do not take into account the way the user is connected - wifi for example - the number of devices connected simultaneously or the quality of the device used to make the connection. A recent study by the European Commission, based on more accurate measurements, shows that Belgian consumers receive on average 85% of the real speed displayed. Operators clearly indicate on their website that the download speed of their offer is a theoretical maximum speed. In addition, the price of offers depends in particular on the speed and the maximum monthly volume of download. The best way to encourage operators to ensure that the actual speed is as close as possible to the promised speed is to increase transparency about the actual quality of their network. In addition, the aim is to make consumers aware of the need to make informed choices. Among other things, operators are already required by the telecom law to communicate in advance to their customers what the maximum download speed available at their address will be. This information is already available via an online tool on the website of several operators. From 1 January 2016, the obligation to put such a tool online will be imposed on the main operators. The regulator may monitor compliance with these transparency and information obligations and, where appropriate, sanction defaulting operators. The law does not provide for the possibility for the regulator to require operators to pay compensation to users in the event that the actual connection speed deviates from the theoretical speed. Users can terminate their contract if the promised speed is not reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the technologies a little, but I'm not sure the operators explain that. They say: "You are entitled to such speed and you will pay for such speed"; they do not say: "If you have wifi or if you have two devices at the same time, your speed will be reduced". There is a lack of transparency. The message is not clear. This could be similar to a false advertisement such as the Market Practices Act provides for the sanctioning of such advertising. Perhaps your explanations are real, but they are not given to the consumer when he takes his subscription. The consumer pays his full speed and not his reduced speed because he has wifi or other. That's the whole problem. Seeking explanations about speed, that is, operators are always right. I don't think so. If that's the real explanation, the operators have to say: "If you have the wifi, instead of that speed, you'll have that speed. If you put two aircraft on, instead of that speed, you'll get that speed." That is transparency, and that is what the IBPT must control. Good for the law of January 1, 2016. Transparency will be imposed on local speed. I think it is necessary to add to this transparency the type of technology used and the number of devices used. Otherwise, it will always be false advertising, which can be punished. At some point, a complaint should be made not to the IBPT, which may not have sufficient control over the matter, but to the SPF Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u88	Mrs Lalieux, I agree with the comments you have just made. Minister, I believe that your administration or the IBPT must be much more stringent and fair to ensure that the customer actually receives what he has ordered and that the contracts are honoured, by never applying a 100% rate, since it is extremely rare for the customer to reach the maximum speed promised by the operator except perhaps in the middle of the night. Therefore, the tariff should be applied at 85%! But we must not continue to deceive the client like this anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u89	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the use of mobile internet is increasing in Belgium, but it must be noted that it is still lagging behind other European countries. Indeed, Belgium recorded an increase in mobile internet penetration from 51.2% in 2013 to 57.5% at the end of 2014, which remains below the European average of 66.7%. You have announced your willingness to place Belgium in the leading car of European countries in the digital economy. In October 2015, several operators launched actions to promote the mobile Internet to the public. Deputy Prime Minister, can you describe to us the actions taken by your administration to improve mobile internet coverage after this first month of action? What's the status of this? Did you see an increase in mobile internet use during this period? What are the reasons why the penetration rate in Belgium falls below the European average? What measures are planned in the short and medium term to stimulate the use of the mobile Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u90	Mr Devin, IBPT and SPF Economy have worked with operators to develop an action platform. Fourteen mobile telephone operators participated by setting up own actions. Each action should naturally focus on promoting the use of the mobile Internet, for example by making an additional amount of data available at no extra cost during October, so that the citizen can confidently discover the different services offered via the mobile Internet. We asked participating operators to monitor certain data relating to the use of the mobile internet. Thus, during the evaluation of the action at the beginning of 2016, we will be able to check whether we have managed to catch up with our historical delay and whether new actions are needed. On the basis of this evaluation, we will verify the need for further projects to stimulate penetration. A number of factors explain why the Belgian penetration rate is below the European average: the late introduction of coupled sales of devices and tariff plans; the later marketing of mobile internet; when mobile internet is launched, prices are higher than the current market prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u91	Deputy Prime Minister, have you already decided when you will conduct the evaluation? You're telling me 2016. Can you tell me a date or period so that I can come back to you at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u92	We'll do the evaluation at the beginning of the year. I imagine if you ask the question in March, we should be able to share the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u93	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and for this information. I will come back to you in March to see the evaluation you completed with your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u94	Mr President, Minister, the MSO plan was finally approved by the bpost management and a majority of the unions on 29 October 2015 at a joint committee. From now on, Saturday work will be treated as week work, resulting in the de facto abolition of the two hours of compensation granted to employees during weekend work. These would be replaced by a net annual premium of EUR 240. Minister, can you explain why bpost decided to assimilate Saturday's work to a weekday? What are the expected results of such a measure, particularly in terms of financial profitability? What is provided for in the MSO Employment Improvement Plan? What will happen to this plan if the state loses its status as a majority shareholder in the event of partial or total privatization of bposts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u95	Mr Devin, the growth of e-commerce represents an opportunity for bpost. Package distribution is an important market that offers growth opportunities and can compensate for a significant part of the decline in traditional mail volumes. But this market is also very competitive, with players such as UPS, DHL, Kiala and others. In this context, cost control and flexibility are an absolute necessity. The agreement on the new organisational model, approved in the joint bpost committee, allows to face the increase in competition in the package market and to support the company's growth. The "agile" organisation results in greater efficiency. It attracts new volumes of packages and correctly manages daily fluctuations. This way of working will also create additional stable jobs. The agreement also provides for the integration of Saturday work into a five-day work week for certain bpost departments such as mail, retail and call center. In terms of employment improvement, the agreement provides more stability for collecting and distributing employees by extending the tenure to all staff, including contractors and auxiliary staff. This means that for two years, the incumbent collection and distribution agents have the guarantee to perform the same work schedule on the same tour. A change in the company's status would have no impact on this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will agree that the emulation culture is one of the modern enterprises. You are telling me today that there will be an increase in stable jobs in view of this agreement. I'll come back to you in a year to take stock of what you told us today. I wish you were right about increasing stable jobs at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u97	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, bpost has a particularly high customer satisfaction rate. I told you again last week and this one is growing. We can all congratulate ourselves on that. The overall proportion of clients satisfied at bpost increased from 73% in 2003 to 86% in 2013. However, one of the services offered by the public undertaking escapes this rule and alone constitutes 11% of the complaints addressed to bpost. These are the recommended shipments. Out of 8,084 complaints related to postal shipments in 2014, 911 concerned only these special shipments. This is a problem all the more serious because the product has a certain aura: the user uses it especially when he wishes to ensure that the consignee receives his consignment. However, this is not always the case. Deputy Prime Minister, can you give us details of the different types of complaints identified for the recommended shipments (disappearances, errors, delays, etc.). [[( )?]] What bpost measures does it intend to implement to improve customer satisfaction with recommended shipments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u98	Mr President, Mr Devin, first of all, let me tell you that the source of the figures you mention is not very clear. The report of the Postal Mediation Service mentions 6,655 universal service complaints, including 4,091 regular mail complaints and 880 recommended mail complaints. These complaints concern the two undertakings which are authorised to carry out universal services, i.e. bpost and TBC-Post. On the other hand, bpost informs me that complaints about the recommended consignments mainly concern the distribution of the consignments: misuse of the notice of passage or no notice of passage, problems related to the signature or addresses. Client interventions also concern the sometimes incorrect or insufficient information provided by the track and trace system. A major source of dissatisfaction has been removed by improving and simplifying the proxy system. Depending on the formula chosen, the postal proxy authorizes a designated person or all employees to receive recommended shipments on behalf of an organization or business. There are two options: non-nominative postal power of attorney can be used by all employees or nominative postal power of attorney. The proxy amendments are also the most recent changes that have been made to this product.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u99	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u100	Mr President, Minister, last summer the Council of Ministers approved the federal open data strategy, a strategy proposed by the Secretary of State Francken and Tommelein and yourself. Public enterprises will also be covered by this strategy. The strategy is rightly based on open by default. Businesses will have to explain why certain dates are not opened, rather than that a lot of effort has to be made to get data open. The strategy is also based on the free provision of data with free re-use. Only reimbursement of the costs of posting, for example for storage on electronic media, can still be charged. In this way, our economy can be stimulated to the maximum, by integrating this information into many useful applications. It is therefore only a question of marginal costs. For example, the cost of handling an additional application may be passed on. With SNCB and Infrabel, transport and traffic information are of course available internally, because they need it for their own operation and their own app. So the opening up of that data doesn't really include much more than the opening up of an API, or simply the dumping of that data, which is already being used by your own app. These things do not immediately entail major costs, but they can bring benefits, for example in terms of attractiveness for new customers if that train information is systematically integrated into the most convenient applications. In fact, the people of iRail are already getting this information by unofficial means today and are already making it available to third parties free of charge, which says something about the lack of cost of accessing data to third parties. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Firstly, by when do you expect public enterprises, in particular SNCB and Infrabel, to comply with the federal open data strategy? Perhaps you will soon submit your draft law on this subject. Will public enterprises be covered by this? Will it cover both public undertakings? Secondly, can you confirm that SNCB and Infrabel will have to follow that open data strategy strictly and will therefore not be allowed to charge any cost for the use of the open data? If not, on what arguments do you think a cost could be justified? By a cost, I mean anything above any marginal cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u101	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, on 24 July 2015, the Council of Ministers, together with the federal open data strategy, adopted a draft law on the re-use of public sector information, which also transposes the European PSI Directive into Belgian law. This draft law amends the existing legislation on the re-use of public sector information, so that it will now apply to autonomous public enterprises. A final version of the draft has now been approved by the government and will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks. That Directive lays down the charging principles for the re-use of public sector information. Article 6 of the Directive provides that a fee may be claimed, but that, subject to certain exceptions, it is limited to marginal costs for the multiplication, distribution and dissemination of documents. According to the European Commission, a fee based on marginal costs can be applied to non-digital documents, but a free distribution is recommended for electronic documents. Finally, I would like to point out that the federal open data strategy stipulates that the open licence, the CC0 licence, will apply where possible. This licence allows data to be reused free of charge and without reference to the source. In the event of a derogation from this licence, this must be explicitly justified by the public authorities concerned. Applicants or re-users who encounter difficulties in exercising rights conferred by this new law may appeal to the Federal Appeals Board. The only element I have not answered is that the companies SNCB and Infrabel will be included, as has been said in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You rightly underlined once again the importance of the open license CC0, Creative Commons Zero, and that is very important. It is also very good that SNCB and Infrabel will be covered, especially as regards Infrabel. After all, at the moment only SNCB is the operator, but in the future and if there is a liberalisation of passenger transport, the opening up of the full traffic status on the network is of course very important and interesting for passengers. You have not replied to one point. You said that the reasons could be different from the CC0 licence. I wonder to what extent SNCB or Infrabel could do that. With regard to the costs, you were very clear in your answer: if it is digital, it may have to be free. I had also put the same question to Minister Galant, and she said that SNCB would apparently try to ask some large parties for money to do so. This may be possible in the form of a separate additional service, but you were clear: when it comes to the data itself, it is not possible. I am very curious about the forthcoming draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u103	Madam President, Minister, last July, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) launched an Atlas tool to provide an overall view of mobile operators' coverage on Belgian territory. It appears that there are significant disparities in terms of mobile geographical coverage at the municipal level. It is the south-east of Belgium, mainly the south of the Sambre-Meuse furrow where are located the communes of Cerfontaine, Viroinval, Saint-Hubert, which is the least well loti. Indeed, the Atlas reveals real "white" areas in which coverage is non-existent. These rural areas are completely ignored by operators for whom financial investment is not profitable in these territories. In July 2015, I asked you in particular about the commune of Rouvroy, located in the Virton area, where the speed of flow and connection are lethargic. So the problem is not new. However, I am asked by the IBPT Atlas, which shows that in almost all of Flanders, including rural and coastal areas, the coverage is good, while in the south and east of the country the gaps are legacies. Even if they are few in number, the inhabitants of south-eastern Belgium have the right to adequate access to telecommunications. Mr Minister, on the occasion of a written reply, you indicated that Proximus had implemented broadband deployment plans in the province of Luxembourg and Wallonia in general. What is the status of these plans now? The situation would have worsened in the commune of Rouvoroy, since my last written question. What is the reason? Since obtaining permits involves lengthy administrative procedures in some regions, is it not possible to consult with the relevant ministers in order to reduce the length of the procedures and simplify them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u104	The IBPT Atlas site with the cover cards shows that the Proximus network is the most advanced in Rouvroy for the deployment of 4G, with a 90% higher coverage compared to less than 70% for Mobistar and a lack of coverage for Base. Also for 3G, we find that the coverage of Proximus is the best. In 2012, Proximus had already set up a specific project to increase 2G and 3G coverage in the province of Luxembourg. Over the past three years, some 20 new base stations have been installed and activated. Proximus plans to install and activate additional base stations in mid-2016 as part of the same program. Proximus also invests in the commune of Rouuvroy and more specifically in the subcomunes of Torgny and Couvreux in which investment works are planned in order to be able to offer the mobile internet. Work is under way until the end of 2016 at the antenna level in the vicinity of Rouvroy and Virton to improve coverage. This work may cause temporary deterioration of the service. With regard to the deployment of 4G, Proximus aims at national coverage and therefore invests accordingly. Potential differences in deployment rates can be explained in some parts of the country, for example, by different regional regulations, requirements for obtaining certain permits and exemptions from town planning permits, and the length of administrative procedures. It should also be noted that the coverage of mobile networks depends on the geographical specificities of the location and the construction of the buildings. The transposition of Directive 2014/61/EU of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of the development of broadband electronic communications networks currently under way will limit the duration of a permit to 4 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear that investments will be made in this particular region. I can quite understand that the works may temporarily disrupt the networks and that the relief is also for something. I note that an improvement is envisaged and that is very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u106	Mr Minister, perhaps you know LTE-U, the use of the LTE standard in the unlicensed spectrum; the You stand for Unlicensed. The unlicensed spectrum is known from the Wi-Fi you use at home on the 2.4 and 5 gigahertz tires. You may install your Wi-Fi router yourself without having to ask for a permit. That is the essential feature of the unlicensed spectrum within a given power. Just there, applications like wifi or microwave could be created. Traditional operators are also interested in using these frequency bands, which they may also do without a licence. One could, among other things, roll out base stations that could extend the coverage of the classic 4G networks on that band with that famous LTE-U standard. However, that LTE standard is designed so powerful that it threatens to seriously disrupt the traditional Wi-Fi networks. One could even say that he's just threatening to blow it away. As soon as you put an LTE-U base station near you, your Wi-Fi signal could become virtually unusable. Vodafone, among others, has recently tested this technology in the Netherlands. Would I have liked to know from you how you deal with these developments, their opportunities and threats? What steps does BIPT take in this respect? In other words, how do you ensure that the Wi-Fi network of the people at home is not destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u107	Madam President, wifi has an enormous socio-economic value, which according to studies in Europe will increase from EUR 23 billion in 2013 to EUR 95 billion in 2023. It cannot therefore be accepted that Wi-Fi applications would be disturbed by the roll-out of incompatible systems. The standard applied in Europe is quite robust and fortunately resistant to some degree of interference. LTE-Unlicensed was developed for regulatory regimes that do not require Listen Before Talk, which is indeed the case in Belgium and throughout the European Union. Those products are therefore not authorised in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u108	Madam President, Minister, your answer sounds very positive, but at the same time I am also surprised, since these tests are now being carried out explicitly in the Netherlands. However, you state that they have not been admitted throughout Europe. So I sense a certain contradiction. I shall, of course, look into this. You've only made me more curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u109	Mr Minister, recently I was able to see the release of a Belga dispatch expressing a rather optimistic view of the current state of gsm network coverage in our territory. This dispatch indicates that "more than 99% of the population are covered by the 4G network of at least one of the three mobile operators (Proximus, Base and Mobistar). They are now only 0.61% unable to benefit from it", says a first update of the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) of its mobile coverage cards. "With regard to 3G, the whole country would be covered, with the exception of 0.004% of the population." This gratifying observation will not fail to warm the hearts of the citizens who are still suffering from considerable technological shortcomings. However, further on, the article states that "the IBPT collected new data from telecom operators last September - 97% of which proved reliable, compared to 95% in July - and then checked them on the ground before validating them in its recently published Atlas". The regulator stresses, however, that "the quality of mobile networks is not limited to coverage and that these data relate only to external mobile coverage". We are faced with a positive announcement a priori, but much less so in reality since the almost total coverage announced is indeed an external cover, which means that we have to get out of the buildings in order to get from the network. So we can't talk about a real improvement in terms of comfort for users yet! It seems to me that this kind of dispatch gives an overly beautiful view of reality and is likely to mislead citizens as to the current state of affairs. It is, of course, in the process of improvement, but it is not yet possible to speak of full and optimal coverage throughout the territory. Mr Minister, is it not, for the time being and until the situation is well-known, to mislead the reality of the facts that such information should be communicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u110	My colleague, external coverage is currently one of the most reliable coverage measures. In fact, the interior cover is difficult to predict because it depends on many factors such as the frequencies used, the size of the openings, the thickness and materials of the walls, the angle of impact of the waves and the distance of the user from the windows. This is why it has been customary for many years, in almost all countries, to specify, in the context of the allocation of frequencies, an external coverage obligation. The fact that the legal obligations to cover the three mobile operators relate only to outside coverage does not, of course, mean that citizens have to leave the buildings to telephone. Mobile network licenses naturally allow for indoor coverage. The 97% reliability threshold in Atlas is also a minimum threshold that ensures a high level of map reliability and comparability. On 27 October, the IBPT launched a public consultation on possible actions to stimulate indoor coverage of buildings. The consultation examines all technical possibilities and also considers the need for regulatory intervention. There are already a series of solutions available to improve this coverage inside. Operators themselves offer commercial solutions to improve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u111	Minister, I understand that the external connection is usually measured. However, there is still a whole series of areas where indoor connectivity is really bad. This Belga dispatch has been relayed abundantly. A communication in the press has a great impact and gives the impression that there is total and satisfactory coverage throughout the country, which unfortunately is not the case. I encourage you, Minister, to make every effort to improve the coverage of the most remote areas of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u112	Minister, on Friday, November 27, the press reported that the Proximus Group had tabled a plan to speed up the retirement of its staff over the age of 58. The aim would be to reduce the wage bill and thereby strengthen the competitiveness of the company. It is also detailed that the advanced formula would take the form not of an early retirement plan but of a "pre-retirement leave", which would be less costly for the company and the State. This early retirement plan would potentially affect a thousand employees, i.e. 7% of Proximus staff. It is well known that, in the current economic context, older workers face the worst difficulties in finding their marks and being valued in the labour market. Therefore, such a signal sent by a major player in the Belgian economic world is obviously regrettable, especially since Proximus is still predominantly owned by the State. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Do you share this view of continuous stigmatization of older employees, in this case for cost reasons? Is it not possible to benefit from their experience in a beneficial way for the benefit of the whole company? Moreover, if there is a real need to reorganize staff at Proximus, could we not imagine other options? For example, one could imagine that older workers would gradually reduce their working time and pass on their experience to newly engaged young colleagues? Finally, under what financial arrangements will the announced plan be put in place, and with what budgetary impact? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u113	Madam President, I will give the answer in both languages as these were joint questions. Like you, I've read the coverage of this. It is true that Proximus is active in a highly competitive sector that is in permanent motion. New players come on the market with innovative business models and services and then there is the acquisition of BASE by Telenet, which will put enormous pressure on them. In this context, I understand that Proximus wants to strengthen its competitiveness and that personnel policy is part of that exercise. However, the latter is the responsibility of the company itself, taking into account the applicable legal framework and in consultation with the social partners. I understand that there is no concrete plan ahead and that the management of Proximus is still looking at the options. If Proximus submits a concrete project, we will examine it critically. Know, however, that Proximus is now making a lot of efforts to enable its employees to constantly retrain themselves, in order to keep up to date with all the latest technological developments. Proximus also tries to create a working environment in which employees feel well, where they can build a long-term career. It is up to the company, together with the social partners, to examine the initiatives which give employees at the end of their careers the opportunity to reorient their professional activities. This can take a wide variety of forms, such as moving towards activities that better match their expectations, working part-time or even voluntarily stopping their professional activities early. However, for the government, there is no question that the cost should be passed on to the public authorities. Whatever decision will ultimately be taken in accordance with a correct legal framework, the company will have to bear the full cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u114	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had a little doubt that you were going to tell me that there was not yet a concrete plan and that you would not decide on the details. I can understand that. I note positively that there are end-of-care plans for Proximus employees, so that older workers can eventually reduce their working time to facilitate transmission within the company. The press text gives the impression that older workers, the older workers in our society, today represent only a cost. We can only regret it. They have a lot to bring. I hope you share this view as well. Targeting older people and planning a plan to get them out of the company as soon as possible is a signal that we regret. Other options exist. We will return to the matter as soon as we have a concrete plan, if any.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u115	Mr Dedecker, you have the floor to put your question No 6415 on "open data from SNCB".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u116	Madam President, this question has now become obsolete, both in the topical and urgent debate. 7414. I will therefore withdraw this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u117	And your question number 6423?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u118	This question is about "Digital Bath" and was answered in the meantime during the debate on the policy paper. I'm moving in too. I will only ask my questions about Cloud for Europe and the CIOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u119	Minister, Fedict has been a member of the consortium Cloud for Europe for some time, which aims to stimulate the use of public sector clouds, as a collaboration between government and industry. The project aims to identify obstacles and find solutions to strengthen confidence in European cloud computing providers. The project is supported by the European Commission, which provides an additional funding of 70% for purchases made via that channel. If we buy through that channel, then we will also get European money, which is very interesting. I have the following questions. First of all, how long has Fedict been a member of that consortium? What membership fees have already been paid? Secondly, what are the results of membership for Belgium so far? What was our return for money? What have we learned? What have we achieved? What purchases have already been made through that platform for what amounts? Thirdly, what is Belgium's overall cloud strategy? Is there a study or a report on this? Fourthly, to what extent do you support the platform's vision, which explicitly intends to use commercial cloud infrastructure for public applications, rather than build such infrastructure yourself? I believe that this is the implication of membership, but I would be more than happy if you did not share that view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u120	Fedict has been a member of the consortium since its founding in November 2012. No membership fees have been paid. Belgium has contributed in particular to the analyses and methods, with of course a lot of knowledge flowing back. Fedict has mainly exchanged expertise on risk analysis, security guarantees and the certification status of cloud services. However, the objective of pre-commercial procurement is mainly research funding, so that our IT sector can play better on the cloud market in the future. However, we should not assume that the purchases will lead to immediately deployable and usable cloud services. Belgium's cloud strategy is contained in the G-Cloud initiative. I received a proposal for which the section on future governance has yet to be defined. Cloud for Europe remains neutral in the choice between private government cloud and public commercial cloud. Membership has no implications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The latter surprises me a little bit. I thought there was an explicit intention to strengthen those commercial cloud infrastructures effectively and to strengthen confidence in them. This will also ensure that they are used effectively, not only by the private sector but also by the public sector. I thought that was a good thing. Those purchases are being financed there. It would be good if we were to use it instead of reinventing hot water in a number of areas ourselves through our own government office. I believe that this is something general, that we should take as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u122	Madam President, Minister, the federal government normally has 12 CIOs, Chief Information Officers, responsible for the IT policy of their department and together for the IT policy of the government. Some of them have already left without being replaced. I would have liked you to give me an overview of the CIOs who are still in office. Why haven't the other positions been filled in yet? In what way are you going to tackle this inherited malaise and ensure that we take back our IT policy and strengthen it with a united vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u123	Fedict, the Federal Public Service for Information and Communication Technology, can only express its opinion on the so-called horizontal FODs' Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the FOD Staff and Organisation, the FOD Budget and Management Control, and Fedict. For these four FODs, Yves Vander Auwera was CIO until the end of April 2015. His mandate expired and he was not replaced, pending the optimization of the federal government. The latter is an exercise that is in full progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u124	Mr Minister, this is, of course, largely an inherited responsibility. The fact that a great many posts were no longer filled by the previous government means that we have started to lag behind in that area in this legislature. It is important that we carry out this great reform, but it must not go into the soup in the meantime. I assume that you will also put in place the necessary safeguards to keep this on track, pending the full redesign, which will, of course, be there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u125	Minister, it is up to us from the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie to the European Union that Proximus decided to remove France24 from its television offer. It would appear that this decision is the result of commercial and economic considerations. Proximus, therefore, appears to have avoided an analysis of the social and political implications of its decision-making process. However, Proximus is still a public company, which is also a must in the digital television market. As such, it cannot ignore its social responsibility. France24 is a French news channel dealing with international issues with particular attention for the African continent, so often forgotten by the media. The quality of its programmes is not called into question. In a geopolitical context that requires maintaining or strengthening the links and mutual understanding between our different countries, such a source of information is an asset for the French-speaking people of Belgium. At the moment, I do not know which channel will replace France24 on the channel it now has. Minister, even though I know that there is no public service obligation in this regard, how do you appreciate such a decision to the detriment of the French-speaking people, Belgians or foreigners, of our country? Do you not think that Proximus should reconsider its decision and take into account, this time, its social responsibility, which stems in particular from its public character? Do you know whether Proximus intends to replace France24 with a channel that pays such high attention to the African continent? Is this decision not in a position to affect our relations with France in a context which, on the contrary, requires a strengthening of our exchanges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u126	Madame Lalieux, Proximus is an autonomous public company, free of its commercial choices. The television offer is part of its purely commercial tasks, within the meaning of the Act of 21 March 1991. Therefore, it is not for me to intervene. As far as France24 is concerned, Proximus tells me that discussions are under way with this channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic287x.u127	Minister, I know these are commercial transactions. Nevertheless, it seems to me important that, as Minister for Cooperation, you should encourage a little more detailed information, particularly on relations with the South. That's what France24 does, but I don't know if you're looking at it. It would therefore be harmful to eliminate such a channel for the benefit of another one that broadcasts cartoons or series of poor quality.
