ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u1	Madam President, Minister, over the past few decades, the General Service of Military Intelligence (SGRS) has doubled its strength and currently employs more than 600 officers, an equivalent size to its civilian counterpart, the Sûreté de l'Etat. In the momentum generated by the establishment of the National Security Committee and in line with the Government's desire to increase synergies between the various intelligence services, your department has highlighted the need for a considerable strengthening of coordination between the SGRS and the State Security. As the only Belgian intelligence service with a mandate to operate abroad, the mission of the SGRS to inform all public authorities of developments in external threats can only be fully fulfilled by strengthening links and synergies with other security actors in our country. Minister, is there already a more detailed plan for how these two intelligence services can be reconciled? What elements of coordination between the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat do your services still feel that they are insufficient, or are likely to be improved in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u2	Madam Chair, Minister, on November 6, you outlined your vision for the future of the SMS. On the occasion of the centenary of the Military Intelligence Service, you indicated that beyond its purely military dimension, the SSRS has a broader vocation to the benefit of the external intelligence needs of all public authorities. You therefore considered it essential to strengthen its coordination with other security actors. In your view, the tasks of the SGRS should be expanded beyond strictly military tasks to include, inter alia, global economic flows and those of cyberspace, international terrorism from failing States and armed conflicts with a direct impact on Belgium. This would make it possible to improve the continuity of State security work abroad. In short, our services would be structured somewhat in accordance with the French model, with the military SMS taking over the role of the DGSE in the service of all the ministerial departments and the Civil Security taking over that of the DGSI. At the same time, you have also called for a closer rapprochement between the two services, as the link between external and internal security continues to strengthen, as shown by the problems of Daesh in Syria and the terrorist threats in Belgium. Overall, this vision of the future of the SGRS with that of State Security may seem quite logical and consistent since the link between internal and external threats is perfectly obvious. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have heard from you in more detail. Is this vision shared by the government as a whole, particularly by the Minister of Justice, who has oversight over State Security? Does the civilian intelligence service, which is currently responsible for the internal and external security of the State and whose officers are active abroad, share your vision of the division of labour between the two departments and the expansion of services that this implies for the SSRS alone? Is it intended to become the country's most developed intelligence service, serving as a sort of focal point for other existing services? In concrete terms, how do you intend to implement these changes? On what schedule? Beyond organizational aspects, what would be the budgetary and staffing implications for both services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u3	Ms Jadin, Mr Dallemagne, in accordance with the Government's will, the State Security and the General Intelligence and Security Service have undertaken a rapprochement, which has been formalized within Platform Five of the National Strategic Intelligence Plan, translating political will into concrete actions. This platform will give rise to an integrated intelligence plan in July and will improve cooperation between the two services as well as between them and other security services such as the federal police. Structural cooperation between the State Security Service and the General Intelligence and Security Service has been in existence for more than ten years. It shall be evaluated annually in the presence of the two relevant ministers. Currently, it works very well. However, it is clear that in certain areas, such as recruitment, training or operational prioritization, capacity and infrastructure can be combined and joint investments can be made. As regards the legal framework for this collaboration, it should first be clarified that the missions of the SGRS are set out in Article 11 of the Organic Law of the Intelligence and Security Services of 30 November 1998 and that they are broader than strictly military tasks. Indeed, the SGRS must process information relating to any activity which threatens or could threaten the integrity of the national territory and the security of Belgian nationals abroad. The SGRS is also expected to make recommendations to the government regarding the definition of its foreign defence policy. The SGRS's military missions concern both the interior and the outside of the country. The aim in the future is not to provide domestic service and foreign service as in France. That's not the idea. On the other hand, it is true that, through its position within Defence, the SRMS monitors the situation in many parts of the world and exercises strategic oversight to enable Defence to intervene at the right time with the appropriate means. Thanks to this strategic watch and the information obtained by Defence attachés and troops abroad, the SGRS has essential information to advise the government on its foreign policy and not only on its foreign defence policy. The purpose of the SGRS is therefore to strengthen its foreign intelligence activities in support of the nation, in addition to the tasks of the State Security and in full cooperation with the State Security and other security actors. As far as the figures are concerned, Mr. Dallemagne, as you know, the exact number of people employed by the SGRS is not reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u4	It was also a question of Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u5	We can always try. Minister, thank you for these clarifications and for this useful reminder of the respective missions. It was also important to emphasize the value of continuing to strengthen the SMS missions abroad as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. In particular, I understand that the SGRS will also carry out missions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is a development in relation to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u7	My departments and the Department of Foreign Affairs meet every Monday to exchange information that is used by both departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u8	This is a fairly recent development.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u9	These meetings have been in existence for a long time, but it is their missions that have changed, it is more interactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u10	As I understand it, the State Security will continue to have representations abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u12	Madam President, Minister, the current situation in Burundi is very worrying. In addition to the fact that the last few weeks have been particularly deadly, numerous lootings have been carried out in the northern districts of Bujumbura. Many calls for the "hunting" of the Tutsi have been made and members of civil society opposed to the President are concerned or even abducted. All these elements are signs that the situation is getting worse and that Burundi is sinking into a dangerous spiral that can take on the appearance of civil war. Minister, at your level and with your Foreign Affairs colleague, what analysis do you make of the current situation and the possible follow-up to be given to it at Belgian, European and UN level? No fewer than 500 Belgians are still present in Burundi today. Was a strategy envisaged in the event that Belgium was forced to repatriate its nationals? Is there regular coordination with Foreign Affairs to determine whether the evacuation of Belgians and European nationals present in Burundi might be necessary? Can you give us an indication of the time required for the repatriation of Belgian nationals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u13	Madam President, Minister, in recent weeks the security situation in Burundi has only deteriorated. Violence, rallies and enforced disappearances are growing alarmingly. The killings of members of the opposition, human rights activists and many civilians are increasing. There is an increasing number of calls to hate and hunt the Tutsi and to any critical voice of the regime. The first fruits of a mass crime thus seem to be in place. On the other hand, the regime is holding an increasingly hostile and radical anti-Belgian discourse, not hesitant to resort to the most crude or absurd accusations to try to discredit us vis-à-vis its population and to prevent us from playing a direct role in the search for a solution to the crisis. In this context, what about the specific threats that could affect our local citizens? What is the nature of the analyses that you currently have and that you can possibly share with us? Beyond the advice given by Foreign Affairs "to leave the country as long as normal conditions permit", what specific measures have been taken to adequately protect our nationals if necessary (in collaboration with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and our international partners)? Of course, forces are already present for the protection of our embassy, but are there troops ready to intervene quickly in the area if a rescue and repatriation operation is to be organized? Does Defence currently have the necessary capabilities (both men and equipment) to carry out this type of mission? Are the Belgian Armed Forces ready, possibly in conjunction with our European and international partners, to participate in an international force (United Nations Chapter VII) in order to be able to provide relief, if necessary, to populations that might be victims of massacres? In the meantime, what concrete steps are being taken to deploy more human rights observers or experts to the field in order to better analyse developments and to prevent, where appropriate, such developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Dallemagne, the security situation in Burundi is very worrying and we are following it closely, in close consultation with the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs. Protection and, if necessary, repatriation of our nationals are basic missions for defence. Contingency plans exist for this type of operation. They are regularly updated and have received special attention in recent weeks. Since April 2015, Defence has strengthened the Belgian embassy in Bujumbura with a security detachment. We do not communicate numbers in public, but these are more than two people. Their mission is to protect the embassy and the head of diplomatic post and to increase situational knowledge. However, it is the FPS Foreign Affairs which is responsible for the missions of evacuation of nationals. Each year, in close cooperation with this department, Defence conducts exercises in the planning, activation and execution of evacuation missions. The Defence Staff has regular contacts with the FPS Foreign Affairs in order to exchange information and to synchronize possible measures to be taken in this regard. Defence has a rapid reaction capability that can be deployed within 24 to 72 hours. You will still find additional answers in my answers to Oral Parliamentary Questions Nos. 4387, 4392, 4511 and 4591. As regards the organisation of coordination at European and/or United Nations level, I suggest that you contact my colleague in Foreign Affairs. We exercise, we prepare, we plan, but it is the FPS Foreign Affairs that makes the decision for repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u15	Minister, thank you for your full answers. My colleague Stéphane Crusnière, who usually deals with these matters, will certainly question the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u16	Minister, thank you for this response regarding contingency plans in the event of repatriation. You have not answered the question concerning possible participation in an international force in the event of a complete slippage of the situation there under chapter VII.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u17	I do not have enough information to answer you. We are following the situation in Burundi, we have done everything possible to obtain the most up-to-date information. At my level, we didn't talk about an intervention as such. Rather, it is a question for Mr Reynders. It's at his level that we're discussing this kind of thing. And we come to support if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u18	Your department is available...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u19	We are at the disposal of the government, as it decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u20	A Burundian delegation arrived in Brussels a few days ago and discussions are totally blocked at European level. I think the situation could remain dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u21	This is a dangerous situation, which has already been unstable for a few months. At times, the President or others have made statements that have increased the level of the threat. But the overall situation remains the same. As I have already said in response to other questions, there are still 500 Belgian nationals in Burundi. I feel like they're not going to move right now. This depends on the assessment these people make of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you this question, but there may have been some developments in the meantime. It concerns the return of the Belgian F-16s to the war against the Islamic State group. Do you have any specific information in this regard? The Prime Minister had recently announced that the aircraft would be redeployed. When will these aircraft be deployed and from which base? How many devices are involved? What type of operations will they be deployed for? Will there be a change in missions compared to 2015 missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u23	Mr Dallemagne, the participation of our F-16s in air support missions to the Iraqi security forces within the framework of the international coalition will be the subject of a study within the framework of the file "Belgian Operational Commitment in 2016" which will be submitted this Friday for approval by the Council of Ministers. Belgium and the Netherlands intend to participate jointly in this effort from a base in a country bordering Iraq. Belgium will continue to provide some 30 military personnel for the protection of Dutch aircraft until the end of June 2016. Then, the Belgian F-16 will continue the mission from 1 July 2016 until 1 July 2017 in principle, with a detachment of six aircraft accompanied by a detachment of approximately 110 soldiers supported by a Dutch protection unit. It is premature to speak today about the targets to be committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u24	Minister, it seems that the dates are specific. I think we need to clarify our objectives there because we are in a European coalition that has decided to attack the Islamic State Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u25	Minister, in the wake of the Russian intervention in Syria to support the Bashar al-Assad regime, but above all following the Paris attacks of 13 November, diplomatic negotiations were intensified. First, on 20 November, the Security Council adopted resolution 2249. Then various military actions against Daesh were reconfigured. Reference was also made to Article 42-7 of the Treaty of the European Union. Several countries, including Germany and Great Britain, have thus joined France and the United States in their operations in Syria, thereby extending their actions within the international coalition beyond Iraqi territory – the idea being to destroy the Islamic State group. Minister, can you give me as comprehensive an account of the ongoing operations in Syria as possible? What are the international actors involved? Under what coalition and mandate do they operate? What military operations are they carrying out in Syria and Iraq, with what tactical and strategic objectives? What are the military means committed by each of the protagonists? What are the results achieved and expected against Daesh? Then you yourself suggested last September that a Belgian military intervention within the international coalition in Syria was entirely possible and even envisaged. I quote: "If a military coalition is set up for Syria, we will not be able to stay away." Therefore, in the light of Security Council resolution 2249, but also in the light of France's request for aid and assistance under Article 42-7 of the Treaty of the European Union, what is the official position of the Government in this regard today? Do you plan to rapidly extend to Syria the mandate of the military operation against the terrorist organization Daesh, in which Belgium participates with varying intensity in Iraq, more precisely alongside the French carrier Charles de Gaulle? What form could Belgian military intervention take in Syria? What would be the short- and medium-term objectives? What material and human resources could Belgium mobilise to carry out this type of operation, with what budget and staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the Dutch Minister for Defence was in the United States on 23 November. During that visit, the United States officially requested the Minister to bomb Daesh with the Dutch Air Force in Syria. The Netherlands is bombing only Daesh's targets in Iraq at the request of the Iraqi Government. So far, the Dutch position has always been that there was no mandate to bomb targets in Syria. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence on 2 July 2015, you said the following, and I quote: "As far as the future is concerned, we have indeed prepared a basic agreement with the Dutch. Subject to political approval, we agreed on the continuation of Operation Desert Falcon, i.e. the deployment of the F-16s, i.e. alternating with the Dutch. Essentially, we will keep ground staff on the ground right now to support Dutch pilots and next year we would take it back from the Netherlands. This was also your answer to the previous question, but I still have a number of additional questions. Has Belgium, like the Netherlands, also received an official request from the United States to bomb Daesh's targets in Syria? Have you had contact with your Dutch colleague on this question? If so, will the Netherlands answer this question? If the Netherlands responds to this question, does this mean, given the turn role with the Netherlands, that there is a possibility that Belgium will bomb Daesh's targets in Syria? My last question lapses because you have already answered it after the previous question. I have been informed that you are proposing to take over the assignment of the Netherlands from 1 July. I did not understand whether this would be for six months or a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u27	That's for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I will leave out my introduction. My colleague has already outlined the situation sufficiently. I would just like to add that we have soldiers in Jordan who support the Dutch F-16 Tunisians. I have two questions. Have we also received an official request from the United States for a possible review of our efforts against Daesh in Iraq and Syria? What would be the concrete implication for our country if the Netherlands were to respond to the American request? After all, we have a turn role and from 1 July 2016 we will take over the mandate of the United States. Have you talked to your Dutch colleague about this? If no question has come and we take over the assignment on 1 July 2016, what is our situation? Then what mandate do we have to operate there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that your questions are rather conditional. There is little point in discussing matters that could happen. Having said that, I repeat that my Dutch colleague and I have entered the European Participating Air Forces - Expeditionary Air Wing partnership. This ensures a Belgian-Dutch presence in the framework of the international coalition against Daesh in the domain of air operations. It has already been extensively documented and discussed that air support tasks vary depending on the evolution in the field and from neutralizing ground targets to gathering tactical intelligence for the benefit of the coalition. As mentioned above, with the approval of the Council of Ministers, Belgium will continue to provide a security unit for the Dutch aircraft during the first semester of 2016, as we do today in Jordan. In addition, we will indeed continue the assignment from July 2016 and in principle until July 2017. At that time we will be supported by the Dutch. What we are doing today for the Dutch will then do for us. This will be entered for six months in the 2016 budget with the option to add six more months in 2017. That's the bottom line. It is also about budgetary high technology. When Belgium will take the turn to supply F-16 fighters, this will happen and this is important according to the mandate that the Belgian Council of Ministers will determine. What the Dutch may do in Syria between now and 30 June 2016 does not mean that we will automatically carry out the same tasks. Belgium is part of a broad international coalition involving actors, either in Iraq or Syria or both. The information requested on mandates, actors, actions, military assets and results is classified. Mr Dallemagne, this information is given in the Committee on Monitoring Missions Abroad. Another important point is that Belgium has not received an official request from the United States to operate in Syria. I myself have not been in contact with my Dutch colleague Hennis-Plasschaert on this particular subject, but I assume that we are following closely the situation of our allies at the operation theatre, albeit of course we have little influence on the decisions taken at the respective decision levels of our allies. However, let me be clear. Firstly, we have not received a formal request to operate in Syria. Secondly, when we go back, that will be according to the mandate that the Belgian Council of Ministers will give to Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u30	Minister, I am not asking you to give classified information, but it seems to me important to have a public debate on issues that are also of a political nature. The reasons for a military intervention do not seem to me to have to be classified, nor the decision that, we agree, the Islamic State group must be eradicated. It is a debate that takes place publicly in all European nations. Each time, we refer to classified information. We have to sort out what really is and what deserves a debate in a public committee of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u31	I think I have answered about the overall objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u32	But as you say yourself, a coalition is being formed, to which we adhere; European countries have taken decisions. Where are we now? Which governments are involved? What are the mandates? How is this coordination going at air level? We have the right and also need to hold a political debate on these issues. Parliament is still the place to be! I'm not asking you to tell me how many targets have been affected, etc. It is important that we have weekly debates as the situation is changing very quickly. I am also surprised that there is no contact with your Dutch colleague. If we protect a force that decides to go to Syria - as with our frigate and the French carrier - we are in an international force whose vocation is to carry out attacks in Syria. Let us not look at ourselves: we are involved militarily. It is not because it is another who presses the button that it changes things politically. It is therefore important that we be able to describe the nature of our intervention in Syria. I don't think we can save this debate. We are part of an offensive air group that aims at the destruction of the Islamic State group. Why does Parliament not take up this issue? Why isn't the government clarifying it? It is very curious and fundamentally very Belgian in the end: we hide behind others without dared to address certain issues of a political nature. You sometimes say things in the press that you do not come to Parliament to confirm. You said, "If a coalition is set up for Syria, we won't be able to stay away." A coalition is currently in place for Syria. What are we doing? We don't stay out of the way, since we're sending a frigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u33	I answered. We are part of an international coalition. We study every question that arises. I can't tell you any more. If we are asked to do so, we will discuss it within the government and make a decision. My personal conviction is that we need to contribute where we can, while examining whether it offers added value, whether the return date is clearly decided and what is the risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u34	My opinion is that we are engaged in Syria, but we do not want to admit it. I do not think that is a clear political position. I'd rather it be. My group has always supported this coalition and international solidarity, particularly with regard to France. I think we should clarify our position. A debate is being held in the Dutch Parliament on this subject. I don't see why we wouldn't do the same. Thank you for the rest and I repeat that we deserve a debate on these important issues: what are we doing in Syria, what are we doing in Iraq, why are we here, what are the objectives we are trying to achieve? These questions are not sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u35	Madam President, Minister, allow me to confirm the question as Mr Dallemagne put it. In your opinion, there were quite a few conditional questions, perhaps less by myself, but above all by my colleague, but those are important questions. In the Netherlands the request is being debated; the Dutch were asked to act. Since we are in the same coalition and we alternate according to a turn role, it can be assumed that the question of action will also be asked whether we have already been asked. Anyway, we need to be prepared for that question. And in order to confirm what Mr Dallemagne is saying, I think it is important that there is clarity about this. The agreement reached and the possible decision of the Council of Ministers must be subject to public debate, irrespective of the opinion of the government, the opposition or Parliament. I believe that, should the Netherlands agree to bomb Syria, and perhaps the Netherlands has already promised to do so, the situation will also change for our troops, for the troops we are providing today in support. That mission will then have to be re-evaluated and, as you yourself said, will be reviewed in accordance with the conditions currently in force. This must then be decided again in the Council of Ministers and you must dare to have the political debate on this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u36	Minister, I understand from your answer that if we were to take over the mission from the Dutch and therefore go to Syria, the government would have to take a new decision on this matter. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u38	If, however, the Netherlands decided to be active in Syria from 1 January 2016, and we have men on the ground who accompany the Dutch F-16.What is the situation for our country? That was actually the question I was asking earlier and I shall come back to that question. What legal basis would our troops in Syria support bombers in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u39	Let me make this clear. What we are doing there today is providing force protection. This means that we are helping to secure the base in Jordan. There is no question that our men will go with us to Syria or support them. They do not even touch bombs that would be loaded on planes and could fall on Syria, and so I use the conditional wise. We are working with the Netherlands there and cannot suddenly move away. However, if there is such a desire to have a conditional debate, I would like to hear from my fellow Members what we should do. Do we have to go home again? Should I call my Dutch colleague and say to her: Jeanine, sorry, we are guarding your garage, but they do not like that in Belgium because they do not know where you are flying. We're going home! That's crazy. This discussion isn't going anywhere. What we are doing today is what we have been doing for a long time. We worked on the basis for that too, and we also made our share when we were there with force protection. On the same basis there are Americans. We can also ask questions about where they fly, but we will certainly not know about that. We still have open communication with the Dutch, but the Americans will not tell us where they fly everywhere. We can discuss it for a long time and spend a lot of time on it, but let us be honest: do we want to contribute to the fight against Daesh yes or no? Do we want to do so within the budget that we have at our disposal and which I think is far too low? That is what we are doing today. That is the contribution we can make. We can provide a little bit of added value. With the thirty men we have there for security, we keep in touch with the command center of general air operations, giving us at least some information about what's happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u40	Minister, it is very important to get clarity. You say we intervene very modestly. That's right! Too modest, I think. It's because of the constraints on you. This is one thing, but we still intervene, through our frigate, the training provided in Baghdad and this protective detachment in Jordan. We need a clear political signal from Belgium: are we like the British, the Germans, the French and perhaps tomorrow the Dutch who are discussing it now? We need to have a real debate on this in order to define why we are here, in what framework and in order to determine our objective, both political, strategic and military. We participate in this operation without caveat and without false appearances and without hiding behind others. We are participating in an operation in Iraq and Syria aimed at destroying the Islamic State group. There! That should be made clear. As you have mentioned outside Parliament, this should be discussed in Parliament in a clear debate. In support, there should be a resolution because the September 2014 resolution is totally overtaken by the facts. First, it was valid for a month. Moreover, it concerned only Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u41	Madam President, I would like to repeat what Mr Dallemagne said after Mr Yüksel's question. Mr Dallemagne, you said that we remain faithful to our alliance for the matters we have approved. Do I understand that if the Netherlands agreed to bomb Syria, we would agree? Our people are carrying out security orders there now. We are part of that alliance and I think, like my colleague, that we need to clarify and at least have a decision by the Council of Ministers covering such a decision. Apart from Parliament or from what you say in the press, such a decision must be covered by the Council of Ministers, after which we can have a clear parliamentary debate on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u42	Minister, from January onwards Belgium will participate in NATO Response Force, NATO's rapid reaction force, which can be deployed in the short term where necessary and if all NATO Member States agree. In preparation for this, a battle group with four companies paracommands and a large number of specialists held a large-scale national exercise between 7 and 11 September, with about 1 500 soldiers. Since then, there has also been a major international NATO exercise. I'd like an update. How'd the exercise go? Have all the pre-arranged objectives been achieved? In other words, are we ready to join the NATO Response Force from 1 January? Is there a deadline for participation in the NATO Response Force? Exactly what capabilities of the Defense Department are involved? What is the budgetary impact of participation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u43	Mr Klaps, the exercise Active Trip 2015 took place in the vicinity of Saint-Hubert between 7 and 11 September. The intended results of the exercise were achieved: the battle group has been able to achieve the integration of all its specialised sub-units into one tactical environment, with the deployment of troops by helicopter or by parachute at night. The Belgian elements of NRF 16 are therefore ready to be used, says the evaluation. In addition to the elements of the land component, Belgium also offers the following other capacities throughout 2016. After all, NRF will last a full year, which is why it is also called NRF 16. These are six fighter aircraft F-16, four helicopters A-109 and an M1 module unmanned aviation systems (UAV) of two to four aircraft B-Hunter, including the corresponding support, a mine hunter under the Standing NATO Mine Countermeasures Group 1 and from November 2016 until March 2017 we will offer a frigate as part of the Standing NATO Maritime Group 1. Finally, the Land Component will offer an artillery battery. The budgetary impact of such a standby period shall be limited to the costs of training the personnel concerned and any equipment and ammunition consumed. These are fully covered by the annual training program of the components, are within the normal budgets that are common in the Defense Department and are therefore supported by the Defense Department. Given the hypothetical nature of a real commitment, it is impossible to pre-determine part of the Defence budget. I repeat that all 28 allies must agree to the deployment of the battle group, so that will not happen very soon. So there is little point in establishing resources for this. If the development of a genuine intervention force were requested, the principle adopted at the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2008 would be applied, in particular that any real commitment should be decided by the government on a case-by-case basis and should be subject to exceptional budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I think this is a good example of the strategy of the battle groups integration of different components on the ground to be ready. It's good to know we'll be there if we need to. The fact that all NATO Member States must give their agreement will indeed ensure that there is little chance of an effective commitment. If that is the case, I am certainly reassured that we will be ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u45	Mr. Secretary, on 13 November, a burglary in Heverlee's barracks came to light. Unknowns planted incendiary bombs under a row of vehicles. The police, the fire department, the emergency services and DOVO came to the scene. The surrounding buildings were evacuated and a thorough inspection took place. The incident can at least be called serious. In the military base, both Special Forces and part of the military intelligence service have been barricaded and there is additional surveillance. Moreover, the increased threat level in all military barracks ensures that everyone is extra vigilant, or that should be the intention. Has an investigation already started around this incident? How is the barracks normally guarded? Is there a permanent guard? How will the additional surveillance be completed in view of the increased threat level in this barracks? What additional measures have been taken? How many military patrols in Heverlee's barracks? Following this incident, have you taken any additional measures to increase surveillance? Did you inform the barracks in our country about the incident and ask them to be extra careful?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u46	Mr. Secretary, last week Heverlee's barracks caused a small media storm. A burglary was detected and a number of incendiary bombs were found under a row of parked Unimogs. This incident, of course, raised a number of questions about the security of the barracks, where Special Forces and part of the intelligence agency ADIV have been barracksed. Moreover, in our country, level 3 is still in force. In the past, I have asked a number of written questions about the fence of the barracks in Heverlee. Anyone who knows the neighborhood can see that these training areas are very easily accessible. At the time there was an investment in a new fence around the administrative quarter. That was planned for 2014, but was unfortunately moved to 2016. Following this incident, it is clear that additional measures need to be taken effectively and that the security of the complex is in need of renewal. What security measures are being taken to protect the barracks? How many patrols and men are deployed on a daily basis? What additional measures will you take now that terrorist level 3 is in force? Are you planning further investments in the renewal of the barracks fence? If so, what part, when and what budget will be opposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u47	Mr Minister, the introduction is clear here. I just have a few more questions. What did security look like at the time of the break-in? What measures are standard and what measures were taken in the context of the increased threat level? Is this level of surveillance consistent with that in other barracks? Were any additional measures taken in the Heverlee barracks as a result of this burglary? Were they communicating with other barracks about this? Were any additional measures taken there? The most important question in my view is whether additional measures were taken in the barracks throughout the country during threat levels 3 and 4 for the Brussels Region? If that were the case, which one? If that is not the case, why have no additional security measures been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u48	The security measures in place to secure the barracks constitute classified information that is not disclosed for security reasons. That's obvious. Releasing the number of men and patrols could be an additional risk factor for the security of the installation. The quarter of an hour concerned, therefore, Heverlee was secured according to the relevant military regulations and was adapted to the results of a previous study which identifies the vulnerabilities, the potential threats and the risk derivatives. This method of security is actually used for every barracks. It is clear that raising the threat level to 3 and 4 has resulted in additional security measures as imposed by the Chief of Defense, this for all quarters. Once again, this information is not really made public for safety reasons and in order not to expose our staff and our installations to additional risks. As regards the works in barracks de Hemptinne in Heverlee, there is no provision for works other than those already planned for 2016 relating to the renovation of the fence at a part of the perimeter of the administrative quarter. It is 980 metres, for a planned budget of 110 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u49	Minister, I shouldn't really thank you for the answer because I didn't get many answers because you hide behind classified information. I'll make three observations. Firstly, the fact is serious, but the consequences are happy but not very great. It is a warning to keep a very close eye on this security in the future. Secondly, if you refer to classified information, I can only derive two things from that. Either the security measures are insufficient to monitor the barracks, or a number of surveillance tasks have not been properly carried out. Thirdly, both possibilities need to be examined internally, as you believe this should not be made public. In any case, I continue to press for an evaluation and start the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u50	This is, of course, being investigated, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u51	Either the monitoring of the barracks is insufficient, or a number of tasks have not been properly carried out. I would therefore urge that this be done as quickly and as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u52	Minister, you will not be surprised if I say that I am satisfied with your answer. I am pleased that the planned investments for the fence will take place in 2016. I believe there is a real need for that. Mr Top, you say something may have gone wrong. It's an incredibly large domain. There can't be a patrol every minute of the day on every meter of that fence. I'm not sure what you want. Minister, you indicated in your policy paper that you would make the necessary investments. It is clear that you have the well-being and safety of the military in mind. We can only wait for this new fence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u53	Minister, I have two more comments to make. I understand, of course, that this is classified information that cannot be thrown into the street. Perhaps a way should be found to look at this in a certain private way. In any case, I'm very curious about the investigation. As a result of this incident in the media, you said that such an event could occur. 100 % is never watertight, but in the light of recent developments, I believe that our barracks should not take any risks in this respect. I understand when you say that there is zero risk and that such an event may still occur, but I think we should do everything we can to avoid any recurrence of such an event in the future. This seems to me to be an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u54	Mr Tim Vandenput is currently commuting between two committee meetings and he has asked for his question No. 7812 to be dealt with a little later in this committee, which we will do. Mr Senesael has asked for his question No. 7850 to be postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 7879 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u55	Minister, I asked you about this issue in March. A recent memo from the Committee I shows that there is more extremism within the army than before. These are mainly radically Islamic ideas, extreme right-wing ideas and criminal motorcycle gangs. After opening 50 files in 2015, four soldiers were actively involved in radicalism and 12 others were closely monitored. These figures are one thing, and another matter is that the Committee I states that the ADIV should be allowed to increase its acceleration in the follow-up to extremist cases. One of the problems raised is that the competent chiefs of police are not given sufficient information and are not given sufficient instructions on potential cases. It is remarkable that in March I listened to it here in Parliament and warned against it. How will this flow of information and follow-up be done, streamlined and structured? What measures do you consider necessary to counter radicalisation within the Defense Department? After all, I think that the Committee I report is very clear in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u56	Mr Yüksel, for a discussion on this report, I must refer you to Parliament's advisory committee which supervises the Committee I. As far as I'm aware, that report isn't public. Either the questions you are now asking in this public committee are based on a newspaper article that was very tendentious, or you have seen the report, which was not allowed. Having said that, we must make a clear distinction between dealing with criminal motorcycle gangs and those of radicalised Muslims. The relevant corps commanders of members or sympathizers of suspicious motorcycle clubs shall be and have been regularly informed. Religious radicalisation, however, is a process with different stages, where there is a delicate boundary between freedom of religion, on the one hand, and the step towards extremist thinking, on the other. That transition is very difficult to define. In Defence, information was and will be organized to point out to the military authorities the signs of radicalism, without going into individual cases. We have already had this discussion here in committee. There is freedom of religion and freedom of association in this country. We do not keep records of how many Muslims one is and how far one stands. We do have internal monitoring, but we do not communicate about it. (...): We are not here in America.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u57	Not in that respect. We must be very clear on this. One sits on a very thin border that is also about the personal experience of people working for the army. What's possible or not? To detect, prevent and counter radicalism, there is a fine-meshed network of trusted people. So they're all over the place. Trusted persons are therefore not yet people who collect intelligence. A clear distinction must also be made between them. It's not because we place trusted people that this is about spies. On the contrary, it is precisely preventive work. In this way, certain ways of radicalisation can be detected prematurely, with respect for the individuality of each religion. In addition, the General Intelligence and Security Service, ADIV, must continuously monitor the personnel of Defence. I can also tell you that, on the basis of that report, I myself had a discussion with the president of the Committee I and that we will look at how we will proceed. I will also approach that with the people of the ADIV in that way, but I assume that it is a very difficult discussion and that communicating about individual cases is very difficult. One can't just say that someone is radical. They say that about the people of the N-VA, but within the Defense and the working environment that is not appropriate. We need to do other business with someone who's really radicalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u58	Minister, as a former journalist, I have based myself on newspaper articles. It goes without saying that I did not quote from confidential documents. The information I reported came from newspaper reports. Having said that, I believe that the balance you set between religious freedom and all forms of extremism must be preserved. Of course, you must be alert to matters that could endanger or endanger public order and security in our barracks. I think that the fact that there are people working with trust to check whether there is radicalisation or extremism is a good thing. It is also a good thing that you had a discussion with the Committee I on this, because I think it is right to follow up on such matters. I'm not pleading for a witch hunt. However, I say that if certain elements indicate that people are radicalising or are susceptible to extremism, this must also be properly followed up. For me, the newspaper article is an alarming message and a signal to go further. If our military intelligence service should follow ADIV in particular, not only abroad but also in our territory, then I think that we should also expect more commitment from ADIV. That is why I am addressing you. Finally, as far as you are concerned, I will not contradict the fact that N-VAS are radical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u59	Mr. Yüksel, allow me to give you a specification. At the beginning of my reply I said that the article was rather tendentious. A journalist got that document, and he made it into something.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u60	I didn't get access to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u61	You are not, but I have read the report and I can tell you that the report was no reason for me to be very worried, even on the contrary. I hope that can be confirmation enough. As you know, the Committee I conducts an investigation and always draws up a report on this subject, which should always contain a number of recommendations. As a former journalist, you also know that you can pull one line from 25 pages and say that's the news. Then the article headlines "Defension must shift a gear higher" and then it's about a recommendation on internal communication. I won't say anything more than what's going on. I am just saying that my impression of the report was that there were no grounds for great concern for defence in terms of procedures and results, but that improvements are always possible seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u62	Minister, on 7 May there was a situation of bullying on the Saffronberg military campus in Sint-Truiden. The victim filed a complaint, but she was dismissed. Then there was a complaint with bourgeois parties, which led at first instance to the conviction of the three offenders. However, two of the perpetrators appealed. The court ruled last week that the facts were part of the military training and the perpetrators were therefore acquitted. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you evaluate the incident and judgment of the court of appeal? Following a written question from Mrs Grosemans of 16 January 2014 I did not mention the number of the question in the report that new guidelines against bullying came into force in June 2013. An evaluation of the Directives would be carried out by the end of 2014. Can you give us the results of the guidelines and the evaluation? If no, when are you planning an evaluation? Do you not want to impose new measures in response to this incident? For psychosocial assistance, a staff member of the Defence Department may call upon a prevention adviser, a trusted person or his unit commander, the physician of the Medical Regional Centre and the occupational physician, a chaplain or a moral consultant, the social service of the Defence Department, the Centre for Mental Health and the psychologists of that centre working on the periphery. So there are a lot of possibilities. I have three questions here. Did the victim contact any of these people? Was a formal complaint lodged with one of these authorities? Why was the complaint stopped or not? With the last point, I come to the bottom line of my question. Following the ruling of the court of appeal, there was a reaction from the military union ACMP, through its chairman Yves Huwart. In short, he says that harassment is not tolerated and that hazing is prohibited, but integration activities can be. What are you doing in a name? ? When people get bullied, it stays the same for me. Should we not tighten up the directives on this in order to prevent people from being exposed to bullying within the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u63	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the working conditions of our military are one of my main concerns in our committee. For example, I have already asked you about their suicide rate and their body mass index. Today, what I am asking, like my colleague, is the harassment experienced by some new recruits in the army. On 4 December, I read in a Belga dispatch that the Antwerp Court of Appeal considered harassment to be part of the military training. One particular case was studied in this judgment, but I think that we need to broaden our thinking to include all young military personnel. Minister, what are the rules on harassment – and what definition – at the military level? What initiatives are being taken to address proven cases of harassment in the workplace and, it seems, particularly among young military personnel? As far as the military victims are concerned, do they have any references to which they can entrust themselves in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u64	Madam President, as far as the judgment of the Court of Appeal is concerned, the headlines say something quite different from the ruling. Bullying isn't part of the army. I would like to stress this formally. Of course, such a headline sells newspapers. A defence officer, both on and off duty, is always expected to have an attitude free of violence, unless bullying or unwanted sexual behaviour during an assignment. Harnessings and baptisms are forbidden. I can confirm that. Integration activities are permitted insofar as they meet criteria set out in an internal directive, including respect for standards and the prohibition of certain listed practices, such as harassment; humiliations, such as the obligation to wear inappropriate clothing, repeated insults, quarantine places, etc. The aim of an integration activity is to welcome new members, pass on traditions and promote cohesion. As far as the prevention of psychosocial risks is concerned, the DOD applies the rules in force. For example, this application was further developed in internal directives in 2013. These had to be evaluated in principle in 2014, but were overtaken by the publication in 2014 of a new legislation on the prevention of psychosocial risks. New directives will be published in early 2016 adapted to the new legislation of 2014. As regards moral harassment at work, the definition used is that described in Article 32ter, 2° of the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work. In the area of prevention, in addition to multiple preventive measures and awareness raising among pupils, members of the line of command and employees of the employer, several initiatives are being implemented. As part of their ongoing training, Defence executives are sensitized and aware of the issue of moral harassment in the workplace. Each member of the Defence staff also has within his or her neighbourhood group trusted persons, who can be questioned in the event of moral harassment. These trusted persons are all trained in advance and have the means provided for by law to intervene in an attempt to find a solution to put an end to moral harassment at work. This is the informal procedure. The staff member may also call on the prevention adviser specializing in psychosocial aspects at work. Before starting its investigation, this prevention advisor may propose precautionary measures to immediately end moral harassment at work. At the end of his investigation, this prevention advisor will give a final notice to the employer's employee with a series of preventive measures. The employer's employee will then have to translate these preventive measures into an action plan, which will be followed by the prevention advisor. If the action plan proves to be ineffective or does not lead to an improvement of the situation, the prevention adviser is entitled to notify the inspection of internal work at the Defence, the ILE. The referents defined by the legislation are people of local trust, people of central trust, who have the same skills but are available for all neighbourhood groups, and prevention counsellors (psychosocial aspects at work). In addition to these referents, the Defence has other psychosocial actors – this is not provided for by law – to whom staff members can entrust themselves, such as moral advisers, chaplains, clinician psychologists, counsellors in mental operations, etc. In the event of moral harassment at work, they will refer the staff concerned to the legal focal points. With regard to the particular case tried by the Court of Appeal, which dated from 2009, it appears that the victim had made contact with a person of local trust. Ladies and gentlemen, having said that, I believe that training in the defence sector is different from that in the social college.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I want to steal the last part of it. Of course, I believe that this is obvious and self-evident, but the training in the defence sector must also be carried out in a framework where there is respect for the integrity of the person and for the social situation of people. It is not because one goes to the army that one has to get all the bullying over him. That is a first point. Secondly, I believe that we should also have a clear overview of the welcoming activities. Perhaps you could give us that in writing. What are the welcoming activities? I assume that this is documented and that there is an overview of this. I would have liked to have gotten that overview. Thirdly, future defence personnel may also need to be informed of such integration activities so as not to be disappointed afterwards because there are things that are not happening in other training courses. One final point, that review of the new Directive in 2014 did not take place because of a new law in 2014. A new directive will be issued in this respect in 2016. I would have liked to know the concrete timing of this. I hope that this directive will include new recommendations as a result of this incident and other matters. I would have liked you to give me some more details on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u66	Don't make us exaggerate. I just explained that bullying doesn't belong in the army. I have made a whole list of the relevant regulations. That is a first point. So you shouldn't say I say bullying just goes with the army, it doesn't. Measures have been taken. There are people at every level to whom one can address when there is a suspicion of harassment. Internal procedures have been worked out in abundance. You may always ask me additional questions, but I would like to have them listed. No problem at all. We're talking about a device where 700 new people came in this year. Normally, it had to be well over 1,000. There are so many people coming in there and we are blowing up a statement from the court of appeal out of proportion as if it had to be quite a disgrace in the army. Let's face it, every organization has rituals. Also in private companies movies of colleagues are made and placed on Youtube. Questions can be asked. There are big scandals there. This is a device with 30 000 people, which brings people together every year. Now there is one case of a clear overrun. That man has not found within our own procedures the satisfaction he has requested. He's moved on to court, but it's only about one case in a while. Please, let us put this matter in proportion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u67	At the risk of getting a little more angry with the minister, I would like to say to him that I know that these practices also exist in other sectors, whether in education or in the private sector, but I would point out that, under the former legislature, they led the Social Affairs Committee to set up a special committee on harassment. The truth also requires us to recognize the particular and opaque structure of the army. It is therefore normal for us to be concerned about what can happen there. Minister, I realize that we have failed to ask you whether you have any statistics or complaints about such cases. If you don't have them at the moment, I'll ask you a written question later. I would also like to know the timing of the arrangements that will be made. We'll come back to interview you at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u68	I don't know the exact date, but it will be from the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u69	Take a look at Karolien Grosemans' written questions. There you will find quite a few figures about bullying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u70	Minister, we have just spoken about the safety and security of our barracks. Unfortunately, it is not so difficult to find information about our military domains. Open source programs, such as Google Maps, Google Street View and Google Earth, offer the possibility to get a detailed overview of plans of military domains, buildings and fences. They are very interesting navigation tools for all those interested in this, but it becomes dangerous when the information is misused. At present, there is still an increased security risk in our country and we must therefore be ever more alert to possible actions. Our barracks are always a possible target, as it turned out recently in Heverlee. The possibility of exploiting such open source channels is not entirely unthinkable. A number of precedents have already occurred abroad, for example in Iraq, where action was taken against American and British camps on the basis of Google Earth data. Several governments, such as the US, British and Chinese, are currently in continuous contact with Google to delete any sensitive visible information about their military domains. In this context, I would have liked to ask you the following, Minister. Do you recognise that open source channels, such as Google Maps and Earth, can be a threat to the security of Belgian military quarters? What is your view on this? What service is competent to track such visible information on Google Earth and Maps? Are there plans to sit with Google to make certain sensitive places invisible or misinformation? If so, what are the plans and what is their term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u71	Mrs Hufkens, one can of course very much discuss the value and details of what is to be found on Google. I won't have that discussion. However, after the events in Heverlee, I took the initiative to consider what we can do. In order to better protect our military quarters this week, I instructed the defence staff to contact Google and other organizations to do something about this and blur the images. We have a legal basis for that, by the way. Article 120ter of the Criminal Code provides that taking images of barracks is punishable. If Google were not benevolent, but I was told that they usually cooperate, there is a legal basis for banning the images. In addition, I have asked my administration to examine, together with other security partners, which images are still vulnerable and to list critical infrastructure. I would also like to refer to a question from your colleague, Mr Buysrogge, about NATO pipelines a few weeks ago. Finally, we will consider what legislative initiatives may need to be taken to protect non-critical military infrastructure. Article 120b will not suffice and perhaps we will have to take other legislative initiatives. That's what we're investigating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u72	Minister, you are clearly concerned about the safety of our barracks, especially when we know that the security risk has increased in our country. It is very interesting to learn that there is a legal basis, so I think Google will find it difficult to get around that. I can't wait to see how this is gonna go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u73	Madam President, Minister, it has now been weeks since our soldiers were deployed on the streets of our country in support of the police forces. If we lack official figures in this area, according to the press, during level 4 of the threat, the number of soldiers deployed on our streets would have reached nearly 1,000, in the form of static or mobile surveillance. The extension and intensification of these missions in the Homeland mission obviously raises questions about human resources in terms of training, operationality or salary. Military personnel should not become cheap spare wheels in the long term as a result of the Government's security budget cuts. Minister, do you intend to discuss the wage conditions of our soldiers deployed on the streets with the various trade union organizations? What are the implications of this deployment for the training and international operationality of military personnel when your budget will only allow you to hire 700 men and women in 2016? We know that a reflection is under way within the police and the army on each other's activities. Do you already have any clarifications on this and on the legal framework for such missions if the government were to extend them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u74	Fernandez Fernandez, you will find answers in the reports of the Defence Committee of 7 December 2015, 25 November 2015 (I answered five questions on this subject), 18 March 2015 (I answered three questions on this subject), 25 February 2015 (I answered eleven questions on this subject), and of the Justice-Home Affairs-Defence Joint Committee of 21 January 2015 (I answered seven questions on this subject). Since our troops were deployed in support of the police, I have answered twenty-seven questions on this subject! But, as always, I'm benevolent. Military personnel engaged in the streets of our country in support of the police forces receive an allowance corresponding to the status of "military assistance in the national territory". Training activities that are essential to ensure the operationality of engaging personnel can continue when the level of threat is 3. If, on the other hand, the level of threat were to rise to level 4 and to remain on a long-term basis, the overall schedule of training activities would need to be reassessed. That's clear. The existing legal framework, prior to terrorist actions in Paris, is still in force and remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u75	Minister, I have never doubted that you are answering the questions and also that you are dynamic in this area, as well as parliamentarians. However, given the scope of the subject and the exception to the situation, I believe that 27 questions are justified and that parliamentarians play their part. I note from your reply that at present there is no consultation or change in the agenda. I will therefore come back with other questions as soon as next year, if the situation changes. Since I am the last to speak, Madam President, Minister, I would like to wish you and the members of Parliament and your colleagues a happy holiday. Thank you for the work that has been done over the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic288x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you happy holidays. I would also like to thank the Minister for having been able to complete all the questions before the recess.
