ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u1	Questions Nos 4227 and 4228 by Mrs Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u2	Minister, I would like to welcome you to what is formally called the new year of work. My question says'recent', but that is a relative concept when it takes a while before the question is asked. In the case of unemployment benefits unduly paid, recovery shall be due after five years in the event of bad faith or negligence. Pensions and the Income Guarantee for Older People (IGO) shall be subject to a limitation period of six months in the event of good faith and three years if the pensioner is in bad faith, has failed to comply with the statutory reporting obligation or has received a foreign pension which the person concerned has not indicated. For example, if a succession declaration shows that someone did not indicate a moving capital when examining the right to IGO, then it can be recovered for three years. Until 2005, the limitation period, as in the unemployment benefit, was five years. We can ask ourselves whether a uniform limitation period for the social security provider in the event of malpractice or negligence is not recommended. How many claims have been made on the basis of the three-year limitation period for pension services and what amount are they? Is there a good, special and justified reason why the limitation period for pensions is different from that for unemployment benefits? Does the Minister have any ideas for improving the recovery of sums unduly paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u3	The answer to your first question requires research to be carried out manually and on a case-by-case basis. The statistical data requested are currently not available either from the Public Pensions Service or from the National Pensions Service. With regard to your second question, I do not know why there is a difference between the recovery period for unemployment benefits and the recovery period used by other social security institutions, such as pensions. In the public sector pension system, the recovery period was reduced from five to three years due to a similar adjustment in the pension system for employees, in order to maintain the uniformity between the various pension systems. In the pension scheme for employees, this change was made on the basis of Article 60 of the Law of 27 December 2005 laying down various provisions. This amendment took effect on 1 January 2006. As regards the public sector pension system, the reduction in the recovery period from five to three years, as initially provided for by Article 59 (2) of the Law of 24 December 1976, was achieved by the Royal Decree of 21 January 2007 implementing Article 61 of the Law of 27 December 2005. With regard to the third question, it is indeed necessary to organise better the recovery of amounts unduly paid. This design is part of the board agreement of the National Pensions Office for the period 2016-2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u4	Minister, I understand your answer to the first question. I will therefore formulate them as a written question. I am pleased that you share the concern to achieve better recovery. We will keep an eye on whether there is real progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u5	Mr President, Minister, perhaps you saw a little earlier than I did that this question dates back to 10 May. I'll rephrase them a little bit. At that time there was still discussion about the preferential system for the police. In the meantime, a separate regulation was drawn up, to which I referred at the time because it was already in the process of being drawn up. In the meantime, the scheme on non-activity prior to the pension was approved by your colleague, Minister Jambon. The question remains, however, in general. What's the status? What is the possible method of regulating police pensions? In the event of enlargement, what is the regime for heavy-duty professions that would be under discussion in the National Pension Committee? What's the status there? How's that gonna go? More generally, is the regulation as planned for the police a reflection of what might be possible for the heavy professions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u6	Mr President, the problem is not an early retirement for the police, it is an end-of-life measure which falls exclusively within the competence of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Jambon, responsible for the conduct of the careers of police officers. The debate on heavy work will be held in the National Pension Committee in the coming weeks. If I were to express my opinion on the issues you are putting before me, this could undermine the debate to be held in the National Pension Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u7	Of course, Minister, I expect a very careful response from you. The question was about the scheme which regulates the non-activity prior to the pension. This must be in line with the moment when one can retire. In this sense, this is not entirely non-committal or taken out of the air. I understand that you say that this arrangement will be included within the National Pension Committee within a few weeks. I assume that the start-up of the working group that is specifically concerned with this will begin. Is this discussed in the committee dealing with public pensions or in the committee dealing with the heavy-duty professions? Or is this matter discussed in both committees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u8	In both, there's a public sector committee on the National Pension Committee and there's a debate in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u9	Minister, the Belgian Pension Institutions Association held a symposium on the future of sectoral pension systems on 19 May 2015. From the data presented by the FSMA and Sigedis there, we could see that the second pillar today covers a large part of the workforce. In the last year, however, the number of entries into the system has decreased. It's looking for the reason. When many people are already involved, the percentage growth rate is, of course, more difficult statistically, but it is also about absolute figures. If sectoral plans and business plans are combined, about 75% of employees have a second pension pillar. That's an impressive number. Of course, within the framework of the coalition agreement, we are also seeking to broaden the system as much as possible. What is particularly striking is the strong under-representation of women in the second pillar. In 2013, this concerned only 37% of active members of a sectoral pension system. If we want to further democratize the second pillar, it is important that female workers also have the widest possible access to supplementary pensions. Do you envisage measures, and if so, which, to improve the representation of women within the second pension pillar? A number of sectors in which women are above proportional do not have a sectoral pension system. Well, that explains a lot of that low grade for women. Do you have any plans to encourage the creation of a sectoral pension system in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u10	Mr President, Mr De Roover, you ask me whether I intend to improve the representation of women in the second pillar of pensions. My answer is clear: of course. But my answer is also more general in nature. I hope that the majority of our population, including women, will build up a supplementary pension. More importantly, all citizens should build up a supplementary pension. As I have been able to clarify, I am currently preparing a draft law that allows an employee who does not receive a supplementary pension to ask his or her employer to withhold part of his or her salary in order to build up a supplementary pension. With regard to sectoral pension plans, the government agrees that the social partners will be invited by the government to use a certain percentage of wage increases in the framework of wage negotiations to finance supplementary pension plans until a contribution level of at least 3% has been reached in each sector. Finally, the harmonization between workers and servants currently introduced in supplementary pensions should also contribute to the generalisation of supplementary pensions, including at sectoral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u11	Minister, the measures you are announcing and the draft law on which you are working will undoubtedly be important steps in the right direction. Perhaps it is lacking, but it is possible that my listening ear is still paying particular attention to the sectors in which a higher proportion of women are employed. That was the basis of my question. I would like to draw more than sufficient attention to that. I am particularly counting on the figures to speak volumes at the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u12	Mr President, Minister, for someone who does not enjoy his own retirement, I am rather persistent on this subject. As mentioned earlier, we also note that accession to the second pillar has been reduced in recent years. I repeat, fewer employees can join. Success, of course, always leads to a lower level of growth at a later level. However, there are other reasons. Of course, there was last week's social agreement. A later question from me concerns that agreement. There was a fear that the companies themselves would have to pay for the low interest rates. When there is uncertainty about the return, there is also reluctance on the part of employees. These issues have been an important subject in the social dialogue. However, both employers and employees are also hampered by a very complex and opaque cost structure in group insurance. This matter concerns everyone, because it is an important part of pension building. Transparency is of the utmost importance. The Supplementary Pensions Act provides that every employee who steps in receives an annual pension sheet from his group insurance, which shows which reserve has been built up and what the estimated pension capital is at the due date. Sigedis and the FSMA are working on a supplementary pension database. My questions are as follows. Do you have plans to have information on the interest and the costs involved included in the pension sheet? If yes, at what time do you plan that obligation? Will this information also be included in the supplementary pension database? Indeed, these data are extremely important in order to keep an eye on the quality of the second pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u13	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have invited the National Labour Council to continue the reflection on a possible revision of the guarantee of return. In this context, I also asked the social partners whether transparency on costs should not be provided for in order to assess the share of the financial return used up by the management of the pension commitment. In the context of the agreement of the Group of Ten, the social partners did not answer that question. In the near future, therefore, I shall concentrate primarily on the implementation of the agreement reached in the lap of the Group of Ten. However, I continue to pay due attention to this question of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u14	Minister, you and we note that the social partners have done a good job in the part they have answered your question. We therefore welcome the fact that you will carry out that part. But social dialogue has so far failed for a second aspect of it. The quality of the second pension pillar is something that must not be overlooked. The lack of transparency is a legitimate obstacle to building trust in the system and the correct knowledge of what is or is not entitled. I really want to insist that, if the social partners fail, for whatever reason, you and politics will not be passive in finding that there is no solution. If necessary, you should look actively for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u15	Minister, you know that the government agreement states that we have the ambition to raise benefits and minimum pensions. It is also the first time this government has done so. We agreed in the coalition agreement that we would raise it at least to the European poverty line. On minimum pensions, we have even said that 10% should be above the European poverty threshold. I have a few questions about this. If I calculate it correctly, because I believe that indexations should be taken into account, it would mean that a single person should be entitled to a minimum pension of EUR 1 181 for a full career, which is EUR 58 more than the current minimum pension of EUR 1 123. People receiving a family pension should be able to claim EUR 1 650, which is EUR 247 more than the current minimum pension of EUR 1 403. That's the calculation I made. Of course it is possible that the indexations still have to be taken into account. How many people currently live below that European poverty line? If we say we have to be 10% above it, how many people are we talking about? How many people with a single pension and how many people with a family pension are covered by this European poverty threshold? What budgets do we need for that? What resources have already been provided or will you be asking for in the context of the budgetary negotiations? By what time do you intend to achieve this objective? What's the road map? How are you going to eliminate the difference that still needs to be adjusted in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u16	Mrs Lanjri, I can tell you the following. The government is indeed planning to raise minimum pensions to 10% above the poverty threshold. As part of the welfare envelope, which was raised again to 100 %, minimum pensions were raised by 2% of their amounts on 6 September 2015, i.e. EUR 1,145.80 for a single person and EUR 1,431.80 for a family pension. Moreover, since June, the so-called "small minimum pension' for a mixed career worker-self-employed person has been as high as the ordinary minimum pension for an employee. From 1 August 2016, the minimum pension for a self-employed person will also be raised to that of the employees. So we are definitely on the right track. The prosperity envelope for 2017 and 2018 will allow us to further increase the minima. For the family amount, the difference between the objective and the current amount is greater than that for single persons. This is due to the ratio between the amounts for families and single people. The amount as a single person is multiplied by 1.25 to arrive at the family amount. Therefore, the ratio between the amounts of the poverty threshold is different. Let us not forget, however, that not every family should do it with a family sum. More and more people are building up their own pension rights which reduces the granting of family pensions, which is a very positive development. Now, if both spouses receive a minimum pension as single for a career of 33 years or more, then today they already exceed the poverty threshold for a family. I will keep a table available for you, which will take back the number of people with a full career and a minimum guaranteed pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply and the additional information. I hope that I can also find out how many people we are talking about for which the gap has yet to be bridged. However, I do not think this will be the case. As far as I can tell, this isn't in the table. You said that the welfare envelope was first applied in September. A number of other corrections were also made. As you yourself know, the difference for a family pension is enormous. More specifically, it concerns 250 euros. I fear that we will not get rid of this difference with the welfare envelope alone. I think it will take more than the welfare envelope. Mr President-in-Office, what steps do you have to take to ensure that, in addition to the welfare envelope, additional resources are available to eliminate this difference? After all, we will not get there with the wealth envelope alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u18	The social partners need to find a solution to the 2017 and 2018 welfare envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u19	The prosperity envelope to the end of this legislative term amounts to EUR 1.2 billion. We're not gonna get rid of the difference with the welfare envelope alone. As we have laid down this ambition in the coalition agreement, I believe that the government should also provide additional resources. I will support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u20	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u21	That ambition must be fulfilled. The government has committed itself to this. The wealth envelope exists, but with that wealth envelope alone, it is impossible to raise all the benefits to the poverty line. Nor can we allow all minimum pensions to rise 10% above the poverty line. This cannot be achieved by EUR 1.2 billion. That would require EUR 3 billion. Unless the government increases the budget of the welfare envelope from 60% to 300 %, it will still have to look for alternatives, Minister. How do you intend to realize that? How many people are we talking about in total? I can't tell that from the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u22	That will be evident from the budget negotiations. There is a table with the number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u23	Those are the ones that are at the minimum. How many people are below the European poverty threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u24	That's what's in the current table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u25	I'll check it out. If it's not clear, I can ask another question. If you still have figures, you can add them to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u26	Questions Nos 4744 and 6408 by Mr De Roover and Mrs de Coster-Bauchau respectively were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 4766 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u27	Mrs. Fonck apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u28	Minister, I am obviously pleased with the increase in the minimum pension for mixed careers. Pensioners who have worked as employees and as self-employed and who benefit from a small pension will see this increase. That's very good, but you're presenting this as a "government gift." That's what bothers me because this claim, this appropriation seems a little abusive to me. In fact, as you know, this is the result of social consultation. This measure is the result of the work carried out by the social partners in the context of the distribution of the welfare envelope and not by the government. This has been spelled out in a press release from the liberal union which states that "you are trying to recover the work of the social partners without ever quoting them". I join them in lamenting this attitude. Having said that, I welcome the fact that this time you have decided to implement the agreement of the social partners. That is to be stressed, it is not necessarily frequent! In addition, you promise an increase of 141 and 169 euros per 250,000 pensioners. You also mention this in your tweet of June 11, 2015. Based on the information in my possession, it is not 250,000 pensioners who will see their pension increase by more than 140 euros per month, but only a few. Indeed, in the vast majority of cases, the pensioners concerned will receive only a few more euros but this is already happening! Minister, my questions are very simple. Do you recognize that it was social consultation that led to this positive measure and that it is not simply a "gift from the government"? Can you confirm that it is not 250,000 pensioners who will see their pension increase by 140 euros or more? Finally, can you tell me in detail what, by category of pensioners, the increases are planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u29	For starters, could you provide me with a text from which I would have said that this is a government gift? I never said that. It's a phraseology that I never use. I never use the word gift as part of government policy. I don't think you'd find a quote like that. There are some shortcomings in the current minimum pension. Especially for people who have had a mixed career, this is a very important and growing problem. The reform of minimum pensions must provide a solution. Each career will count for the career condition that gives rise to the right to the minimum pension, regardless of the plan in which it was performed. I shall shortly be submitting a proposal to the government and the social partners. As far as minimum pensions are concerned, I confirm that the government has decided to raise social benefits in line with the proposals made by the social partners. Of course, we raised the welfare envelope from 60% to 100%. It's a government decision. We have, in a joint meeting between the Government and the Group of 10, clarified the elements that should be given priority in this agreement. There was still a need for adequate budgetary resources. This is what the government has done by fully re-establishing the well-being envelope. As a result, nearly half a billion will be spent on pension revalorization over the 2015-16 period, exactly double what had been reserved for pensions over the 2013-2014 period. The size of the budget made it possible to release 118 million, or 43 million in 2015 and 75 million in 2016, to redress an injustice suffered by pensioners who had a mixed career as an employee and self-employed. Because of their mixed career, they are often unable to meet the condition of 30 years of career under one of the two statutes, which is necessary to obtain the minimum pension in the paid or self-employed scheme. Unrighteousness is even greater when it comes to people who have sometimes spent 45 years in their entire career. The amount of the minimum pension for a mixed career is subject to a much less favourable specific calculation since it provides for a minimum pension amount for the career provided as an employee much lower than that provided for the minimum pension of the employee's scheme. This amount has been aligned with the minimum pension of the employee scheme. Since 1 June this year, it has increased from EUR 954 to EUR 1,123 per month, an increase of EUR 168.98. At the "household" rate, it rose from €1,262 to €1,430, an increase of 140 euros. Of course, as you know, this amount must be applied to the career actually provided by the pensioner concerned. I never considered that everyone would receive 141 to 169 euros more each month. In a press release, which I can provide you with a copy of, I made it clear: "This increase will vary between 20 and 30 euros, and up to 120 to 140 euros. Not all people will benefit from this maximum increase." That's exactly what I said in my statement. I therefore give you the figures provided by the administration, taking the number of beneficiaries per €20. I'll attach a table to the answer. Increases range from zero to 169 euros depending on the careers provided. While the vast majority of pensioners benefit from an increase of between zero and 100 euros, there are still more than 10,000 pensioners who will benefit from an increase of more than 100 euros. These increases are the result of the revalorisation of the holiday pay in May and were followed by a further revalorisation of 2 % of the minimum pensions at least in September. The beneficiaries of a minimum pension for mixed careers will still benefit from the full equalisation of the minimum pension for self-employed persons with that for employed persons, scheduled for August 2016. There will of course always be sorrowful minds to consider that this is not enough. One thing is certain: it is this government which has, since the introduction of the law on the pact of generations in 2005, devoted the most important budget to linking pensions to well-being. You will find, like me, that the total number of beneficiaries indicated in the administration table is exactly 146,873. The difference with the 250 000 beneficiaries announced is due to the fact that this catch-up operation was, for the initial budget estimate, broken down into two separate operations, each assigned to an estimated number of beneficiaries. On the one hand, the alignment of the basic amounts of the minimum pension based on a mixed career for the basic amounts of the minimum pension guaranteed in the self-employed scheme concerns 111,359 pensioners. On the other hand, the alignment of the basic amounts thus increased with the basic amounts of the minimum guaranteed pension for employees, based solely on the consideration of the career of employees, should concern 142,936 pensioners. It was finally decided to upgrade the minimum pension in a single stage, on the understanding that most of the persons involved in the second stage were already in the first stage. The attached table is constructed at the outset of the data used to estimate the welfare envelope. It includes the number of salaried pensioners who, according to the estimate, benefit from a gross increase in retirement and/or survival pension per €20, following the alignment of the basic amounts of the minimum pension based on a mixed career as an employee and self-employed person with the basic amounts of the minimum pension of salaried workers based exclusively on the taking into account of the career of salaried workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u30	Thank you for these points of answer. I am pleased to have the tables in order to be able to analyse these figures better. As I said in the question, we can only welcome the increase in pensions, particularly the minimum pensions. This responds to an existing injustice. I note that you acknowledge that your tweet of June 11th was perhaps a little simplistic and a little reductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u31	The tweet is the reproduction of the title of La Meuse's article.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u32	A Minister of Pensions could grade a press article title...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u33	In a tweet, it is difficult to nuance!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u34	But you're taking it back. I also note that you acknowledge that you have applied the outcome of the agreement of the social partners by making this improvement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u35	Mr President, Minister, one of the previous questions mentioned the generalisation of supplementary pensions, which is important for workers. However, contractual staff in public enterprises are often not included in such a generalization, or that category of personnel is not immediately considered. However, this is also an important group asking for a complement, as is foreseen for employees. In my view, this is certainly important when a split system for civil servants is set up, before or after the permanent appointment. In July 2015, I submitted this question, because during that period I read in the press that you are proposing to set up a kind of insurance group for this category of staff, such as in the private sector. I would like to stress once again that I think it is important to think about setting up such a supplementary pension system in time and to provide the necessary regulatory framework for that purpose. In Flanders, most local authorities started building such supplementary pensions for their unappointed staff in 2010. Some municipalities pay minimum amounts, while others have provided for higher percentages. You announced that you were thinking of some kind of insurance group. With my question I would like to ask what role we can and will play in this as a federal government. The federal government also employs a few contract staff. Mr Minister, how exactly do you intend to organise the second pension pillar for unargued staff? Which officials would be eligible for this? Would minimum guarantees be imposed? In what way would the second pillar be operational? If so, do you foresee that the existing systems will continue to exist or be taken over into the insurance group, if any, referred to in that newspaper article?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u36	Mrs Becq, I intend to adapt the legal framework of the law on supplementary pensions, which applies to employees, in order to address the problems of application of the law on contract staff. Several ministers have already tried to draw up proposals, but without success, which demonstrates the difficulties associated with the exercise. In parallel with this initiative, I will introduce the mixed pension. In the case of a mixed career as a contractual and permanent official, the statutory pension will be composed of an employee's pension for the years worked as a contractual and a civil servant's pension for the years following the permanent appointment. I will lead these yards with respect for social dialogue. Departing from this framework, the government agreement provides that the government will start developing a supplementary pension scheme for contractual staff of the federal government. It is too early to be able to give you more details on this matter. The applicable guarantees relate to the guarantees already provided for the employee. After all, I would remind you that the law on supplementary pensions for employees already applies to supplementary pensions built up in favour of contractual public staff. The adjustments I will make will not question the principle of building up a supplementary pension in favour of their contractual government staff, particularly by certain local authorities in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u37	Minister, I understand that you want to start the supplementary pension system in parallel with the introduction of the mixed pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u38	That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u39	I think that is also very important, so I would like to repeat that point. That is one of the reservations: a civil servant's pension may be higher, but supplementary pensions are not taken into account. You will also amend the law on supplementary pensions in such a way as to include a number of elements relating to contract staff. You will also involve social dialogue. May I therefore assume that you will make the adjustment more general, including any other reservations that might arise from the social partners. I think, for example, that Mr De Roover is no longer a question of transparency, an important element in the whole, which could be incorporated into the legislation. The question remains, of course, as to how long it will start. I understand you haven't seen the end yet, but the timing was also a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u40	Mr President, Minister, some pensioners are receiving an additional retirement rate today if they have made pension payments during their career under previous legal provisions. In general, this is of course something positive that is eager to be accepted and collected. However, there are cases where older people, who benefit from their pensions, suffer from this additional old age rate. I know someone who receives a little more than EUR 17 per month of extra old-age interest, which means that the person goes beyond a certain limit and is no longer able to benefit from the preferential rate of the sickness fund, which entitles him to a higher reimbursement in the health care sector and a number of other social benefits. Sometimes this extra old age rate ensures that people are just above the allowed limit. It would therefore be more advantageous for those people to be able to give up this old age rate. My question is as follows, Minister. Can you see if it could be made possible to waive the old age rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u41	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that interest rates, which began on 1 January 2001, are paid as capital. The problem raised does not arise in respect of this interest, since interest is no longer paid on a monthly basis. It is not possible to waive an old age rate, and I am not in favour of changing anything about it. Allow me to explain why. As a pension income, a person receives only a pension that is just 5 euros above the limit for the preferred rate. This person cannot choose to reduce his pension amount by 5 euros in order to benefit from the preferred rate. As a pension income, his neighbour receives both a pension and an old-age pension amounting to the same total amount. I do not think it would be appropriate, simply because a person has two parts of his pension income, to waive some of his pension rights in order to benefit from a preferential rate. Moreover, this does not seem to me to be a pension problem. Persons with a different income may also just cross an income line. People will always be just above the income limit of a statute or tariff. I think it would be appropriate for the relevant ministers of each benefit or statute to have a thorough reflection on the respective conditions of access.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I agree with your last remark. Certain limits have never been indexed in the past, causing problems for people. I know, apart from pension problems, situations where people start to work less at some point, because, for example, the accumulation with their husband's invalidity allowance is at risk. So it would perhaps be a good thing if you and your fellow ministers in the government could make the global exercise. There are situations where we do not want them to happen today. It would be good if we could find a solution. Thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u43	Question No 4938 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question. Question No 5132 by Mrs Thoron is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u44	Mr Minister, my question concerns the survivor's pension for civil servants in the public sector who are divorced. As you know, in the event of death, that survivor's pension is distributed pro rata between the surviving spouse and the divorced spouse. According to the information I have at my disposal, the husband who is divorced must in principle apply for the survivor's pension within the year following the death of the ex-husband. In a judgment of 24 May 2006, the then Arbitration Court, now the Constitutional Court, held that this legislation infringed the principle of equality. According to the Arbitration Court, there is no reason to make the entitlement to the survivor's pension more difficult for the divorced spouse than for the surviving spouse. In addition, in a judgment of 17 February 2011, the Belgian State was ordered by the court of appeal in Ghent to compensate for the damage resulting from this discriminatory legislation. You can read that in the written version of my question but I will not read it all out here in his wisdom in the judgment decides to condemn the Belgian State, on the basis of Article 1382 of the Civil Code, for committing an error by continuing to distinguish in his legislation, which has caused damage to the ex-husband who has been deprived of the right to receive the survivor's pension, whereas it is automatically granted to the surviving spouse. Since then, according to my information, nothing has changed. I may have been misinformed, but so far I have no knowledge of any changes. Do you have any idea how many people this legislation, which is considered discriminatory, would cover? Do you intend to amend the scheme in question so that it is no longer discriminatory? If so, do you intend to do so in the short term and include it in further reforms in the future? How does the administration interpret the law in the meantime? Is it interpreted and applied in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u45	Mr President, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 24 May 2006, the Public Sector Pension Service has adapted its method of granting a survivor's pension to the divorced spouse who, together with the surviving spouse, is entitled to a survivor's pension. This adapted approach has been in place since September 2006. A distinction must be made in this respect, depending on whether the survivor's pension is granted because of the death of the pensioner who already had a retirement pension or because of the death of a person who was still in active employment. In the event of the death of a pensioner who was entitled to a retirement pension, the PDOS of its own motion examined the right to survivor's pensions of the surviving spouse. If, at that time, the PDOS can establish, on the basis of the information available in the National Register of Natural Persons, that, in addition to the surviving spouse, there is also a divorced spouse, the PDOS shall inform the divorced spouse by registered letter of the husband's death. In the event of the death of a staff member who was still employed, no ex-post examination of the right to a survivor's pension for the surviving spouse is carried out, since the PDOS does not have any pension records in the name of the deceased person. Consequently, in this case, the PDOS may not notify the spouse who is divorced until the surviving spouse has applied for a survivor's pension and, of course, on condition that the spouse who is divorced can be identified on the basis of the information available in the national register. Following new technical developments in the pension portal, it will be possible in future for the PDOS to examine, even in the event of the death of a person who was still in active employment, of his own motion, the right to public pension of the surviving spouse. Those developments will indeed allow PDOS to determine, in this situation, on the basis of the information available in the National Register of Natural Persons, whether there is, in addition to the surviving spouse, an actual divorced spouse and to invite them to apply for his survivor's pension. From that moment on, therefore, the PDOS will no longer be dependent on the application of the surviving spouse to examine the rights of the divorced spouse of the staff member who died in active employment. Finally, I would like to inform you that a draft royal decree is being prepared to give the aforementioned a regulatory basis. As far as the number of staff involved is concerned, I cannot give you an answer. In order to provide an answer, the personal data from the National Register of Natural Persons should be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u46	Minister, your answer has given a great deal of clarity. Firstly, I conclude from the fact that a draft royal decree is on the way to overcoming PDOS' new working methods. Secondly, I understand that since the 2006 judgment, it has not changed the framework but has changed the way the administration operates, so that the distinction between the surviving spouse and the ex-husband is removed. For pensioners PDOS itself warns by registered letter. I believe that this has achieved equality of treatment. In the event of the death of employees in active employment, I understand, this is less evident, because that information is not present at PDOS. I hope that the Royal Decree and digitisation will be there soon, so that this working method can be implemented and that the Belgian State will not have to pay damages. Minister, your answer has made much clear, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u47	Minister, I will ask a question about an area that you know well, not only as Minister of Pensions, but also because of your training and your former private activity. It concerns medical specialists in training. I had been dealing with this file in part at the time. We had worked on a status for general practitioners in training. For medical specialists in training there is a real difference which is due in particular to the length of the training of specialization. They are in demand of a real status. At the same time there remains a lack of separation of roles between the employer and the trainer, but above all their social protection is incomplete. They constantly come back with the question of pensions. They have imagined the creation of an ASBL funded by INAMI and hospitals which could harmonise remuneration, monitor working conditions and also, by way of a contribution from employers, provide them with social insurance in respect of pensions. A question was asked of Mrs De Block. I know there are consultations with you. A consultation with the Association of Medical Specialists in Training was also planned last June. Did you participate in the consultations? Is the file progressing? What is your opinion on the matter? Can we hope for something new to meet the demand of medical specialists in training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u48	Mrs Onkelinx, so far I have not been involved in a consultation between the Minister for Social Affairs and the sectors involved in this field. The status of medical specialists in training is a matter of particular interest to me. The social status needs to be improved and it needs to be clarified for medical specialists in training with the impact on pension rights. There are two aspects. On the one hand, taking into account years for the duration of the career which fall within the public sector or the independent regime. On the other hand, and in this case, do they have to buy back or not their years of training? That is a question that needs to be decided. A second part concerns the calculation of the amount of the pension, i.e. the creation of the rights. It is indeed opportune to move forward on this issue and I will raise the awareness of both the Minister of Social Affairs and the minister responsible for the self-employed so that we can reach a definition of the social status of these doctors and agree on their pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u49	When can I afford to ask you again? Three months? Six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u50	Three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 5646 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u53	Mr President, Minister, this question also dates back to the recess and concerns supplementary pensions for sleepers. Afterwards there was some commotion about this, but in the meantime I had already tabled this question. For those who have changed their employment and have not taken up their supplementary pension but have put them to sleep, there is a provision that there is no return for that period and that simply the amount of contributions paid is capitalised, possibly at a statutory interest rate. My question about those sleepers is partly informative. How many such sleepers are there at the moment? How much capital are we talking about in total and per sleeper? How is the determination of 0 % return guarantee currently interpreted by the different funds? I am asking this question because I understand that some funds do not take it into account and simply pass on the return, while others do not. Apparently, there are different practices in this area. What returns are currently guaranteed and is this effectively different from provider to provider? What actions are being taken to deliver the capital of sleepers to those concerned when they are entitled to do so, if they do not take the initiative themselves? Let me give you an example. One works with an employer for five or ten years, one receives a letter from the supplementary pension stating that one has to do something with it, but one does not understand it well, goes to one or the other or does not know it properly and that letter is lost in the mass of paper and one forgets that a little, or the person concerned dies and the children are not aware of it. The question is a little in what way people are notified. Is there an initiative from the supplementary pension institution? What happens to the funds if they are not raised? Is it true that the FSMA would provide for a reinterpretation to extend the efficiency guarantee to sleepers? For which types would this be retrospective or not? What would be the impact of this on pension funds and/or insurance companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u54	The Sigedis association, which manages the supplementary pension database, has informed me that it is currently not possible to give precise figures on the extent of dormant rights for workers in the second pillar. The Sigedis vzw can only give an estimate. In 2013, there were more than 1 300 000 people with at least a dormant bill, whether or not combined with an active account. This represents 52% of the total number of individuals who had an account in 2013. The average amount of dormant reserves for these employees is 8 897.37 euros. For comparison, the average amount of total reserves, active and dormant, for all employees affiliated in 2013 is equal to 13 071, 68 euros. The return granted to dormant accounts depends on the return granted by the pension institution managing the reserves. Secondly, the law of 15 May 2014 has answered the issue you are raising, in particular the forgotten supplementary pension benefits. Citizens will be able to obtain an overall overview of what is built up in supplementary pensions. The various pension institutions can identify the person to whom they should address in order to receive the payment, thanks to the consultation of the database on supplementary pensions to which they will have access during 2016. In addition, with the entry into force on 1 January 2016, the Law of 15 May 2014 obliges Sigedis, once it finds that supplementary pension benefits have not been paid to a citizen whose statutory pension has taken effect more than six months before, to inform him or her immediately by letter of which pension institution, or in the absence of a pension institution from which institution, he or she can obtain the payment of those benefits. Consequently, even if the citizen does not succeed in what he or she is entitled to or even if a pension institution fails to find the citizen in question, a security mechanism will be introduced. The Sigedis vzw is responsible for the follow-up. As far as your third question is concerned, according to the information I have at my disposal, the FSMA has not ruled on the statutory guarantee of return on dormant accounts, the operation of which is also clearly regulated by the Act on supplementary pensions. Therefore, there is no re-interpretation or broadening of the statutory guarantee of return as regards dormant accounts. The recent agreement between the social partners on the supplementary pension dossier contains no changes to this guarantee. Nevertheless, this agreement provides for death cover for the new sleepers so that their heirs, if any, can receive the accumulated supplementary pension reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would like to ask you if I can also get the written version, for the sake of the figures? I do remember that 1 January 2016 is an important moment because then Sigedis will be operational. The same applies to the possibility of consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u56	Minister, in the context of the guarantee of income for the elderly, you, too, have been regularly looking for systems to strengthen the guarantee for the granting of the IGA. Today, people aged 65 or over who apply for a pension automatically check whether they are entitled to the IGO. Of course, 65-plussers who think they have the right to an IGO can apply to the RVP themselves. However, I still regularly come into contact with people who wonder how they can have such a low pension. In general, I recommend that you check if they are not entitled to an IGO. My question is therefore prompted by the concern that people who are entitled to such an income guarantee benefit would not receive that benefit. The intention is to close the holes in the system as much as possible. That is why I would have liked to ask you the following questions. How many files are still waiting for treatment at the RVP? What is the evolution of the backlog compared to previous years, for the allocation of IGOs? It is also true that, although an IGO was initially refused, it may still be possible to benefit from an IGO later by increasing the IGO amount or by changing the financial situation of the person concerned. There are also pensioners who were already 65 before the adoption of the law in 2001 and who were never subject to an own-initiative inquiry. People don't always know they were eligible for this. The question is whether there is any way to look at this even further or how people can be informed about it. How many applications does the RVP receive from people who were once self-employed but who might subsequently be eligible? Was an IGO actually awarded? For pensioners with only a civil servant's pension, no automatic examination of the IGA is foreseen. Perhaps this is because it is assumed that this minimum pension for civil servants is high enough not to qualify for an IGO. If there was another reason for this, you can clarify that. There are, however, a number of situations where such an examination may be necessary even in the case of a civil servant's pension, for example in the case of people who are receiving a sickness pension or who have worked only for a very short period of time. What happens to these people? Have they been notified or can they be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u57	The catching-up operation for those who have retired early since 2001 and for whom the IGA has not been examined at the age of 65 is currently in the final phase. There are 1 215 files left. Indeed, it is possible that someone's financial situation may deteriorate after the age of 65. In such cases, the person concerned must apply to the National Pensions Office (RVP). However, it is not because one receives a low pension, that one is automatically entitled to an IGO. A condition with regard to means of subsistence must be fulfilled. It is impossible for the RVP to follow on its own initiative the 65-plussers who do not enjoy an IGO, as they only have access to pension data and not to all financial data. As regards the number of IGO applications submitted annually by persons subject to an ex-officio investigation, I can tell you the following numbers: 38 applications in 2011 of which 19 result in an IGO award; 49 applications in 2012 of which 28 result in an IGO award; 35 applications in 2013 of which 23 result in an IGO award; and 12 applications in 2014, of which six result in an IGO award. Indeed, there is currently no ex-post investigation based on a low pension of the public sector. When it comes to a person with a mixed career, they may enjoy an IGO. In addition, the civil servants' pension system provides for the granting of a minimum guaranteed amount which varies according to the situation of the staff member concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear that the backlog is almost eliminated, and that is a good thing. It must have been a serious effort. The Minister is right: not everyone with a low pension is eligible for the IGO. This fact also arises in response to questions we are asked about self-employed pensions: how many are eligible or not eligible? That is the reality. It means that sometimes there are people who can use it to slip through the meshes of the net. Then it is important that we try to bring that to the attention of the public on a regular basis. In this respect, the OMCWs play their part, which is an important point. As far as the last question on civil servants' pensions is concerned, I assume that the minimum paid to civil servants is at the level of the IGA and is therefore not eligible for it. I don't have a visual on those amounts, but can I assume so? If it isn't, we need to think about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u59	Mr President, Minister, pensioners over 65 years of age or with a career of 45 years of age can earn unlimited additional income. In principle, this applies to all pensioners from all systems. However, there remains a legal barrier for civil servants receiving the minimum pension from the public sector. The minimum pension cannot be combined with professional income. A retired official who still has an additional income loses his entitlement to the minimum pension as soon as the earned income exceeds the limit of 900 euros per year. The pension then falls back on a lower amount, calculated on the basis of real income. A pension calculated on the basis of earned earnings may be less than or equal to EUR 300 after a career of 20 years compared to the official's minimum pension. In the case of a sickness pension as an official, the difference may even amount to EUR 800 per month. This is mainly about retired civil servants from the lowest betting scales. Mr Minister, how will the group of officials concerned be informed that they are not covered by the extension of unlimited additional earnings if they receive a minimum pension? Do you intend to adapt the minimum pensions scheme for civil servants so that they are covered by the general scheme? There may be reasons not to do this, but I would like you to explain this to me. I was also interested in the other questions that were initially merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u60	These questions will be dealt with later, under items 21/1 and 24/1. The cabinet has asked for these questions to be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u61	Mr President, when paying any new retirement pension supplemented by a guaranteed minimum supplement, the pensioner shall be informed of the applicable cumulation rules, respectively as regards the nominal amount of the pension and the minimum supplement guaranteed. The same procedure shall be applied in the case of reimbursement of a pension which has been suspended in advance. If the Public Sector Pension Service is informed of the fact that a pensioner carries on a professional activity as a result of a declaration by the pensioner, by a third party or by the exchange of computerized information, it is also reminded of the abovementioned cumulation rules. In addition, it should be stressed that the PDOS contact centre and pension points, as well as the PDOS website, explain in detail these cumulation rules. At present, for obvious reasons, there is no provision for any measure to facilitate the cumulation rules between a minimum pension guaranteed supplement and the income of a professional activity. The supplement is a specific form of income guarantee which is granted without the corresponding contributions being paid to retired officials who do not have sufficient resources. Since this scheme is based on solidarity and is financed exclusively by the State's allowance, it is not planned to extend the benefit of the relaxation of the rules on unlimited additional earnings to that group of pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that very clear information is provided at regular intervals about the fact that such cumulation is certainly not possible. I can fully understand what you said about unlimited additional income in addition to a contribution, a supplement generated on the basis of solidarity. I do have a few questions about the amounts. They are not the same as those of the IGO, for the employees. You justify that by saying that this is only about public contributions. Should we not ensure that the limits in the possibility of cumulation grow together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u63	Mr President, mixed careers are not obvious. The coalition agreement states that the systems must grow together and we know why: the rules are often based on different legislation. The result is that people with mixed careers are covered by different systems. This is not always obvious. In the previous legislature, a number of measures have already been taken with regard to longer career and early retirement. Guarantee measures were taken to enable early retirement. These early retirement guarantees are provided for, on the one hand, in the system of employees and, on the other hand, within the civil servants' own system. However, problems arise when these two systems are put side by side. I refer to a 2014 ombudsdienst report (p.35-36) to cite a number of examples. I will put it in my own words. Someone was an employee first and then became a civil servant. Should he remain only an employee, he could fall back on the early retirement scheme. The Public Sector Pension Service (PDOS) says that they do not want to extend the other system to civil servants' pensions. Conversely, it seems to be happening, with the RVP this is apparently seen more cozyly. A person who has been a civil servant and subsequently a worker is also covered by different systems, but has been able to enjoy a favourable tantièmes, diploma bonus, time credit and so on. In the case of the public service, therefore, this flexibility is not taken over by the failure to comply with the legal provisions and a different method is used. Are you aware of this? Probably, because you will also read the annual report of the ombudsdienst, an anthology of what goes wrong in our system. Do you also think that there is discrimination here, depending on whether you start as an employee or as an official, for people entering the mixed system? Can the legislation in this area be adapted, or can you, perhaps by means of a ministerial circular, insist on a more flexible administrative practice, simply to create a system that is acceptable but which is also fair, regardless of the system in which one ends one's career?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u64	In the case of a mixed career and the maintenance of the former conditions of early retirement following an end-of-life measure in the employee system, I have instructed the Public Sector Pension Service to align itself with the administrative practice of the National Pensions Office. This practice consists in granting the private sector's pension according to the former conditions at the time when the rightholder is guaranteed the maintenance of the former conditions in the public sector following early departure. I asked PDOS, at the time the end-of-life measure was introduced into the employee scheme, to grant a public sector pension under the former conditions applicable at the time the end-of-life measure was granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the action you have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u66	Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu is not here. Mr Top has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u67	Minister, at the end of August several municipalities received a letter stating that the National Pensions Office would no longer be in these places. In the region of South-West Flanders it is about the municipalities of Zwevegem, Izegem, Harelbeke, Ingelmunster, Zonnebeke and Poperinge. However, many of these municipalities receive a considerable number of visitors and the service provides added value for the local pensioner or the person in charge of the pension. In how many municipalities in Belgium will the seats of the National Pensions Office no longer be held in the future? On the basis of what criteria will this service be discontinued in the respective municipalities? Are other offices being expanded? Will additional staff be provided? Will these offices be open more often? How many offices remain open after closing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u68	Mr Minister, my question is similar to that of our colleague. In our region there has been rather heavy protest, including from Galmaarden. There are a lot of people there with questions about pensions and it is clear that the sitting day is being abolished. If I get it right, that's the way it is in Diest. Mr President, on the basis of what criteria were the sitting days determined earlier? What system is there now in the winding down of the sitting days? The municipalities get a lot of questions from citizens about this, but how do they handle it? They are now being asked at the municipal counter for which they used to be able to refer to the immediate neighborhood, which is not so obvious anymore. If fewer people have offered, I think you can see that too. What evolutions are noticeable in the way people contact? Is there any evidence that fewer people are coming to those sitting days? How much? What is the evolution in the different places during the last five years? What percentage of people who come to a sitting day of the RVP do they ask for help with the pension application? What are the most common questions? I suspect that you have also made an evaluation of this. My question therefore also concerns the content of this evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u69	Minister, it is already clear that there are a number of questions about the RVP's permanences. I was particularly surprised that you said the day after the press release of the service that you disagreed with the unanimous decision of the management committee. That is remarkable since you should be aware of the decisions of the Management Committee, preferably before a press release is published. You also have a permanent representative there. Mr Minister, my questions are more about the way in which the management committee operates. When did the management committee take place where the unanimous decision on the reorganisation was taken? Was there a representative of yours or the government present at this meeting? I understand you want to change a number of things. On the basis of what criteria do you want to address the reorganisation of the permanences?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was alerted, as a mayor, by a letter from the National Pensions Office (ONP) announcing its decision to abolish decentralised permanences. For the province of Namur, this reorganization should involve the removal of 21 of the 30 local permanences, i.e. about 2 permanences out of 3! I was quite surprised because these permanences are very successful. In terms of the satisfaction of the citizens who ask questions, these permanences are followed very closely. Success is quantitative but also qualitative to the public. This decision is somewhat disconcerting, especially since some laws or reforms are currently changing the systems. So there are a lot of questions about future systems, about rights. I live in a rural area where there is a question of access to permanence services, a direct answer to questions. Mobility as well as the digital divide for a certain audience are also points to be noted. Of course, websites exist and can respond to people who use this tool, but it is not the entire population, in this particular age group. We were able to read in the press that you asked to review the system, at least to block it. We received information that the October duty stations would be maintained and that the November duty stations were scheduled. Beyond November, we don't know, you're going to tell us because it's still pretty blurry at the moment. Minister, before I ask my questions about the reorganization of the ONP's permanent offices, I would like to mention demographic developments. It is a sector that will experience an increasing number of beneficiaries and therefore of cases to be introduced, but budgetary restrictions are imposed on the ONP. What are the amounts of the budgetary restrictions imposed on the ONP for this Parliament per year? What will be the impact on the staff of this administration? We have to take the matter up front. If 800,000 more cases are to be processed with fewer staff, there will be a problem with the use of human resources. What is the change in the workforce expected at the ONP during this 2014-2019 legislature? What is the evolution of the number of pension files to be processed during the same period? How do you intend to reconcile the effective management of applications for each citizen with a decreasing number of civil servants? As far as the permanences are concerned, I expect you to tell us how you plan the system. We are in a transitional period. Some, but not all, permanences would be maintained. According to what criteria? The bad languages say that if it is an MR burger, it will be maintained, but I imagine you will tell us that this will not be the chosen criterion! It would be good for the municipalities to be informed as they are stakeholders, including the provision of premises. They are demanding that large federal governments be decentralized. The FPS Finances has moved backwards by relocating to large offices. I often highlighted the decentralization to the citizen that was organised by the ONP. Minister, what about the months and years ahead?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u71	Mr President, Minister, until the end of September, the National Pensions Office regularly organises local sitting days in almost 1 municipality on 2. As from 1 October, the government has decided to cut it down substantially, thus reducing the service provided to pensioners or the near-retirement workers. I have some questions. Firstly, in how many municipalities in Flanders and Brussels are the sitting days abolished? Secondly, can you indicate how many contacts there have been on these sitting days in 2014 per municipality? Thirdly, what were the main questions raised during such contact? Fourthly, how do you justify this decision to delete? Fifthly, do you realize that the less mobile and less mature people, or those who are less able to handle the Internet, are the victims of this? How are you gonna take that? Finally, how do you reconcile this saving with the 2013-2015 management contract concluded between the federal government and the RVP? On page 17 of that management contract, we read that information should be provided to all citizens and that information should be provided through various channels. The citizen is at the centre of the organization. Equal service for all is crucial, as is claimed, as is transparency. In Article 11 we also read about the importance of a personal welcome. How can the government defend this saving?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u72	Mr Gilkinet is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u73	I understand your concerns. The whole of your questions will allow me to clarify the situation of the RVP's permanences. Allow me, Mr. Delizée, first of all to re-establish certain truths. Indeed, there has never been a question of depriving the citizen of access to personal data relating to the right to a pension. Although the National Pension Office has established its management budget for 2015 on the basis of certain savings – which is true for all administrations and IPSS...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u74	Savings that have been imposed by the government. The administrations have not decided on them voluntarily!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u75	All that would be missing! The revision of the mapping of the pension permanence scheme does not involve economic or budgetary considerations. The ONP has never been asked to achieve savings in this area. Moreover, it was the previous government that had taken this revision step. Let's be clear! The administrative agreements concluded in 2012 with the Di Rupo Government provide for an optimisation of the seating days of the National Pensions Office on the ground, according to Article 11. In order to implement those agreements, the RVP decided to reorganise the seating days from 1 October 2015. The main criteria that guided the selection of the new permanences were: to favour municipalities with high population density and internal employment, as well as those with a railway station and public infrastructure and clusters of activities; to avoid permanent agglomeration; to ensure good coverage of the territory by no longer limiting itself to the geographical boundaries of the provinces but to examine the territory as a whole; to maintain the populations hosting a Pointpension. On the basis of these criteria, the RVP decided to reduce the number of sitting days from 212 to 96. It was foreseen that 47 and 76 sitting days would be abolished in Flanders and Wallonia. The aim of this reorganization plan was – and I do not question the good will of the ONP – to improve the supply of services by being present in a limited number of municipalities, but more permanently and by strengthening the synergies between the ONP and the National Institute of Social Insurance for Self-Employed Workers (INASTI). Moreover, we have gone from a total of about 6,000 hours of service to a total of 8,000. In other words, the ONP plans to increase the hours spent on citizens by 30% in terms of permanent pensions. That reorganisation plan was approved at the meeting of the Management Committee on 27 April last, attended by the staff of my cabinet and the government commissioners. Social consultation is of course important, but it is equally important to consult with the municipalities. I sincerely thought that the latter had taken place. But I realized, as they reacted, that it had not taken place! It was not until the end of July that the municipalities concerned were informed by a letter from the ONP of the abolition of their permanence. By the end of September, more than 76 municipalities had indicated their opposition to the restructuring plan. On 30 September, therefore, I asked the RVP to postpone the entry into force of the new settlement of the sitting days and to examine, in consultation with the complaining municipalities, whether it could guarantee a new arrangement, a low-threshold service close to home, for their citizens. I have indicated that, if, at the end of this consultation with the complainant communes, it appears that the abolition of the permanences does not guarantee such a service, the mechanism should be reviewed to remedy this situation. As the complaints continued to flow after September 30, I told ONP that I wanted to restore the duty stations as they were organized before October 1, with a corresponding reduction in the number of hours, from more than 8,000 hours to 6,600 hours. In reply to the more specific questions put by Mrs Becq and Mr De Vriendt, I can say that the RVP has consistently reduced the number of visitors to its sitting days. The average number of visitors over the period 2012-2015 fell from 12.58 to 10.73, which means a decrease of more or less 15%. On the other hand, the number of letters received has remained stable and varies between 66 000 letters. The telephone calls increased by 31 %. Their number is estimated to be 48 000 calls in 2015. The number of users of mypension.be has increased 4.5 times and is likely to reach 930,000 users in 2015. I would add that according to the figures given to me by the RVP, 69 percent of the people who offer to attend on a sitting day wish to apply for a pension, although this can also be done at the town hall. They also ask for help in completing their documents. According to the RVP, 23 percent of people go to a sitting day to get more information about their future pension, about the impact of pension reform on their individual situation or about a career choice decision. Finally, 8 percent of visitors want information on the payment of their pension. To illustrate my speech, I make two tables available to the honourable Members of Parliament. The first table shows the total number of visitors for the period from 2012 to 2015. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u76	The second table shows, at the request of Mr De Vriendt, the number of visitors per abolished sitting day in the Flemish municipalities. With regard to Mr. Delizée's questions on the evolution of staff and the number of files, I would like to make available to him the figures that have been communicated to me by the ONP, which relate to the period 2009-2015. This painting will be given to you. You will see that it was between 2009 and 2014 that the staff reduction was the most important. This reduction was offset by the automation and digitization of pension files. Many payment, control and review processes are now semi-automatic. Quality control remains necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u77	Mr President, Minister, first of all I thank you for your answer, but there are a number of things that I am not quite clear about. I will first refer to my own congregation. To this day the sitting day in my own congregation is positive, in the sense that on every sitting day several people come and ask for information and submit applications. This therefore has an added value for the public and the citizens who come to ask questions. In the light of the pension reform that is coming towards us, it is strange that we are now suddenly abolishing those sitting days. It can be expected that more questions will now be asked by the citizens. I understand, of course, that a government must adapt to the changes in society. I am thinking of requests or information via telephone or internet. You have listed the criteria for deciding whether or not an office or a sitting day has been abolished. In the first place, of course, it is about municipalities with high population numbers. A second criterion, in my view, contains a certain contradiction. You are talking about the stations and I would like to point out that there is good access to public transport. Just those who are less mobile and less contactable, are punished in this way. People from municipalities who are less accessible by public transport can find less easy access to those sitting days. I would very much like to call for this measure to be reviewed. A third point of criticism concerns not only the sitting days of the RVP, but also other services by the government and this from both the federal and the Flemish authorities. You say that some applications can also be submitted to the town hall. I would urge you to stop the referral of the various governments to the local authorities. If that does not stop, I would ask you to provide at least compensation for those administrations that are given more and more tasks and assignments. They are increasingly assigned tasks and tasks without compensation. That's always more on the hood of those local boards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u78	My concern is in line with that. Especially those who are less mobile and self-reliant, who cannot work with the internet or computer and do not easily write a letter, come with all their papers and questions. We in the region picked out some center cities or larger municipalities, but the demand remains that people can still get information close by. I am sorry about this, but I understand that you are still consulting with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I am a little surprised. You overestimate the concerns of many people with questions about the reform, about the length of the career, about the amount. What you are saying is true: it can all be done on the Internet. However, many people have not yet been able to do so. You said it was possible with mypension.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u80	This is one possibility among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u81	For many this possibility does not exist. So that's a problem. Again, this federal government really needs to stop always referring to the cities and municipalities. Offices are being closed. Moreover, I am told that tax offices will also be closed. Citizens will then be informed that they can address their local authorities. In this way, we are really not doing our citizens any service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u82	This is a demand from the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u83	But no, it's not a demand from the mayors! I know very well my mayor who is certainly not a plaintiff, just like the one who is here next to me. I can assure you that he is not a plaintiff. Perhaps, in small villages, it can be useful to know its constituents. But in the cities, minister, it is impossible! In any case, I believe that we must ensure that people receive the right and correct information. If offices are closed, that possibility will be reduced, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u84	First of all, I did not say that your intention was to remove the citizen's access to information about his current or future pension. The issue at the heart of the debate is the decentralization of information. Of course, there is the website, for those who can access it. There are permanences in the big cities. The question then arises of access, of mobility. The current system had this effect that your administration went to the citizens in the small communes, including the very small. It is in this sense that I have cited it as an example. I also thought that finance or other departments should do the same. I do not question the fact that citizens will no longer have access to information, but decentralization and the issue of rural areas. With the criterion of high population density, rural communities will necessarily not be taken into account. If all administrations do the same, we will witness the desertion of public services in rural areas. I am an elected representative of rural life and I defend rural life just as I defend cities. I believe that all citizens of this country are entitled to a quality service. In addition, your government imposes budgetary restrictions on the National Pension Board (NPB) as well as on other jurisdictions. You're giving us numbers from the past. It is true that computerization and automation have resulted in staff reductions. Now, the ageing of the population is ahead of us. I would like you to give us your staff forecasts for 2016, 2017, 2018. That was the subject of my question. Either you send me these figures, or I will ask another question about it. At the same time, I would like to know the forecast of the increase in the number of cases according to demographic changes. Is it true that in 2016 there will be an additional 800,000 beneficiaries? Can you confirm this trend? If, on the one hand, because of the budgetary restrictions decided by the current government, there are fewer staff and, on the other, the number of files increases, how will you find a balance and provide quality service to future pensioners? Secondly, it seems positive to me to stop removing the permanences. Is this a status quo ante? That would suit me. If 6 000 hours ago with decentralization, that seems good to me. But you're saying you're going to keep the permanences while doing fewer hours. I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u85	You say that the reform proposed by the ONP increased from 6,600 to 8,400 hours. If we go back to the old system, we're going back from 8,400 to 6,600.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u86	In the letter sent to the communes, the counterpart was that they were going to do more permanences in medium-sized or large cities, but away from rural areas. It is therefore a return to the 6,600 hours of the previous system. In the coming months, we will therefore have confirmation that from December onwards, the permanences will be maintained for the same number of hours as before. Do I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u87	Except where there is such a low attendance rate that it will only be once in two.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u88	You need to know what you mean by "down there."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u89	You can't send someone all day to a commune for two people!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u90	You have to see it on an annual basis. As a proportion of the population, these permanences do not deplete!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u91	For example, for a tax permanence, people go there every year. According to ONP figures, for a permanent pension, the average is 1.4 times in their lives. From burgers gaan due 1,4 keer in hun leven naar een permanentie van de RVP. This is obviously very different from tax permanences. People go there once or twice in their lives! Besides, we can't say there's an emergency. If one organizes the permanence once a month instead of once a fortnight in certain places, there is no harm for the person's information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u92	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I am pleased to see that we are going back to the previous situation. I ask for additional figures for staff and for the number of beneficiaries planned for the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u93	Mr De Vriendt also has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u94	Mr President, I will keep it a little shorter. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, your answer does not convince me. I think you may underestimate how many people have questions about their retirement, but you don't know where they can go with those questions. A local sitting day in a small municipality, such as the example of Harelbeke that we discussed, is actually very useful. Do I understand correctly that you are carrying out a decision of the previous government? Was that a decision of the previous government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u96	Oh, my God. Okay. Okay, you gave me the numbers. Importantly, you said that the average number of contacts on the sitting days decreased from 12.58 in 2012 to 10.73 in 2015. So the critical mass that calls on a local sitting day is still there. Of course, the figure is falling, because more and more people are using the Internet, the phone and letters. However, a certain critical mass of 10.73 contacts per sitting day still needs such a local sitting day. That is why we cannot support that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u97	Okay. Or maybe not okay, but noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u98	As Mrs Van Cauter is not present, her question No 1 lapses. 5959. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kitir's 5981 also expires. Questions Nos 6019 by Mrs Fonck and 6182 by Mr Daerden are converted into written questions. The next question is from Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u99	Mr President, since I have a whole series of questions I would like to put to Mrs Lanjri first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u100	No problem at all, that's very kind of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u101	Mr Minister, I will keep the question brief. It's my last question, and I still have to be able to ask it. Recently we have learned that there would be a delay in the final calculation of the pension amount for people who are already retired. In a specific case, for example, it was someone who became 65 years old in December 2014. From January onwards, he would retire as a self-employed and employee after a mixed career. In this case, the delay he suffered was the result of the calculation by the RSVZ. He has not yet been able to tell how much pension he would receive. In the meantime, he will receive a certain amount. According to his estimates, he should normally get a lot more. So far, we are almost a year further, Minister, that man has still not received a definitive calculation of his pension. Of course, a lot of people can't stretch it that long without getting the right amount. One retires, but does not get the right pension amount but a provisional amount. Minister, I understand that successive pension reforms sometimes take some time to complete this legislative work and to implement the new legislation. At the same time, however, we must ensure that people are not unnecessarily in doubt about their final pension amount. We can make it even less difficult for a long time not to give people the amount they are really entitled to. Of course, I know that this man will get the arrears at some point, but not everyone is able to prefinance all of that themselves. Mr Minister, I would have liked to ask you three questions. Firstly, do you have any idea of the seriousness of the delays in the final pension calculations for people who are already retired? Is this a problem with the three pension institutions, the RVP, the RSVZ and the PDOS? If so, how many pensioners per institution? I have even heard that it would be about eight hundred cases. Do you have any other figures on that? Secondly, what additional reasons can be cited in addition to successive pension reforms? I also know about software problems myself, but do you think there are other problems? Finally, the most important thing is that you solve this problem together with your administration as soon as possible. What are you going to do with your administration to give people what they are entitled to, namely their right to a pension? Especially for those who are already retired, this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u102	Mrs Lanjri, I am well aware of the problems and their consequences for the many people who have already retired. It goes without saying that successive reforms of pension legislation have required important adjustments to the calculation programme and the notifications of the final pension decision. Since 2013, the reforms have brought with them an influx of new questions, both from citizens and from public sector employers. This should take account of the fact that an increasing number of applications are handled by a limited number of staff. The only cases where a delay is identified by the PDOS concern either situations where the pension can be granted only after its starting date or cases where the employer has been delayed in passing on the elements that form an electronic career file. It may also be that the person concerned himself late has submitted his application for a pension. The PDOS does not have figures on these cases, but the number remains marginal compared to the total number of pensioners in the public sector. With regard to the RSVZ, you should know that the files for which a final decision cannot be made in time concern pensions starting from 1 January 2015. These are, in particular, the retirement pensions and pensions of divorced spouses, as well as the files on which a transitional allowance is to be calculated. The RSVZ has taken approximately 23 000 provisional decisions on these dossiers. Since the end of September, the regional and central pension services of the RSVZ have started making final decisions in the relevant files and are making every effort to overcome the backlog. The RVP has no delay in deciding on employee pension calculations. The structural solution to improve the period of data exchange between pension organisations is the pension engine. This ambitious project includes the three major pension institutions of the first pillar, the PDOS, the RVP and the RSVZ. By means of a permanent exchange of career data that opens up a right to a pension in the public sector system, in the system of employees and in the system of self-employed persons, citizens can obtain online an estimate of the date on which they are admitted to early retirement, in any pension system, early 2016. An estimate of the pension amount to which the person concerned is entitled is then given at the beginning of 2017. In the case of a mixed career, pension institutions will also benefit from this exchange of information, which will allow the decision to be speeded up in each institution concerned. Finally, I can inform you that the RVP confirms to me that the processing of the electronic validation of those files is currently being tested, together with the RSVZ. A special set-up is planned during the month of November. In the meantime, decisions are taken retroactively by the RSVZ in the bosom of the National Pensions Office. If you would like more information on the self-employed, please contact Willy Borsus, Minister of Self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have said that the 23 000 files that have received a provisional estimate have begun to receive a definitive reply. Can you tell me when that delay will be eliminated? People simply want to know what final amount they will get. That is the most important question. When will the 23 000 files which have received a provisional amount receive a final amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u104	That is a question for the Minister for Self-employed, because the 23 000 preliminary dossiers concern the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u105	Then I will address that minister, but it is about cases of a mixed pension. It is not normal for people who have been retired for almost a year to still receive an advance on their pension. We wouldn't want that either. Nobody wants that. You're Minister of Pensions. Perhaps you could discuss this question with your colleague. It's not about an individual case. It is a general matter. 23 000 files, that's a huge number.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u106	Minister, it became clear in August that the government agreed in the negotiations on the budget and the tax shift that EUR 400 million should be saved on civil servants' pensions at the end of the legislative term. You confirmed that there were savings plans, but you also mentioned that negotiations with the social partners had yet to begin. In light of what is in the newspapers today, in particular that there is an effective deficit of EUR 2 billion for the tax shift, I think there are many officials concerned about their pension. That is why I have the following questions for you. Have the negotiations with the social partners produced any results? Can you confirm or deny, possibly give a figure, whether or not savings are planned on civil servants' pensions in 2015 and 2016? I see all three of you nodding. It concerns a Belga message sent on 4 August.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u107	I would like to thank Mrs Temmerman for her question, which once again gives me the opportunity to confirm that, contrary to the reports published in the press in summer, there is no saving of EUR 400 million on public sector pensions before the end of the legislature. I continue to follow my method of involving the social partners closely in the reforms. This will also be the case for the reforms still to be implemented under the government agreement. For example, issues related to the taking into account of work and the harmonisation of Diploma Bonification Schemes which also concern the public sector pension system will soon be examined by the National Pension Committee. As regards the introduction of a mixed pension, this will only take place after the social dialogue and in parallel with the introduction of the second pillar pension for the contractual pension of the public sector. Therefore, no additional savings are foreseen for 2015 and 2016 as regards public sector pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For me, however, it is quite unclear. You say that while there is no savings of EUR 400 million, there is a saving. Then you say that there is no saving in 2015 and 2016. But possibly in 2017 and 2018, there may still be savings. You're just saying there's no agreement yet on the amount. It may also be EUR 800 million, but it is not EUR 400 million. You're nodding, aren't you? Okay. In the case of diploma certificates, I would like to remind you that during the discussions you said that for the calculation of the pension the diploma will still count. Stay with this, or it will be placed in the balance. For the career, the diploma certificate is abolished but for the calculation of the pension the diploma certificate would still count. Will you stick with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u109	We will achieve harmonization of the three regimes. We are going to set up an egalitarian regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u110	Mr President, in the debate on pension reform, you said that the abolition of the diploma bonus is about career. However, it is not about the calculation. Diplomacy for the calculation thus remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u111	Yes. That's what exists. We didn't touch it. But in the future, we will work towards the harmonization of the three regimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u112	So we can touch it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u113	No. The harmonization of the three regimes will be affected. This means that the conditions for qualifying for graduation in the calculation of the pension are likely to be changed. But this does not mean that the possibility of including these years of diploma in the pension calculation will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u114	This could decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u115	I don't think so. This will become an opportunity according to the wishes of the people. They will be free to include or not include these years in the calculation of their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u116	All right. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u117	Minister, I must refer again to the debate on pension reform. It is also in the coalition agreement. I quote: 'The objective criteria will be established on the basis of which a list of heavy-duty professions and preferential tantiemes may be reviewed'. It is up to the social partners at interprofessional level to determine which professions qualify as a heavy occupation. During the nightly discussions on pension reform, you confirmed that, but you also said that this should actually be there by the end of the year. It is now almost November and we should know which direction we are heading. Can you give me an update on the definition of the list of heavy-duty professions? In any case, this will have a financial repercussion. Is there any additional funding foreseen to cover the pension expenditure associated with the list of heavy-duty professions? Is there a closed envelope funding? Are you still planning to adapt the pension reforms approved for the summer of 2015 to the list of heavy-duty professions? That was the intention at the time, is this still true? I see you shaking, so the answer is probably no. If there is no agreement before the end of the year, what will you do? We have good hopes, because we have seen that an agreement is possible, now on the second pillar. The social partners have proven that they can do it, so let's hope they can do it here. If you don't, the question is what you'll do. Will you yourself suggest amendments to Parliament to protect the heavy professions from the linear increases in age?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u118	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the discussion of the draft law raising the retirement age to 67 years and raising the age and career conditions for early retirement, you have frequently referred to the establishment of a list of heavy-duty professions by the social partners. What is the state of play, Minister? When should the social partners complete their work? What will be the consequences of that list? Does a heavy occupation mean less stringent age and career requirements for the retirement, or does it mean a bonus for the pension amount, or does it mean both? Can you explain the philosophy behind it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u119	Mrs Temmerman, your question on progress in the pension consultation has been added to these questions. May I assume you've already explained it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u120	Yes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u121	Then I give the floor to the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u122	Mr President, in accordance with the government agreement, I asked the National Pension Committee to first develop the criteria for defining heavy work, both in the public and private sectors. The Executive Board of the National Pension Committee has decided to set up in its lap a Committee on the Gravity of Employment, which will be responsible for the formulation of proposals on the basis of which those criteria can be determined. I hope that the social partners can reach agreement as soon as possible, although I am aware that this task, which was first entrusted to the NAR, is a real challenge. In fact, in a second phase, I still intend to implement the coalition agreement which provides that workers who benefit from a recognition of the gravity of the work will benefit from more advantageous arrangements for early retirement or for receiving a higher pension. The government will determine the budgetary resources that can be allocated to the introduction of these facilitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u123	Minister, I have not been given an answer to my question as to whether you intend to submit a proposal to Parliament yourself if the social partners fail to reach agreement? That proposal would contain both elements, namely an early retirement and an increase in the pension, and would contain a definition of heavy work with a corresponding list. Is that what you're up to?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u124	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u125	No, that's a question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u126	I don't mean that. I don't want to provoke. I believe that the social partners must be allowed to assume their responsibilities today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u127	Minister, I thought your answer would be longer than that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u128	What is clearly stated is stated in few words!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u129	Minister, I would like to make another attempt. Do I understand correctly that it is your philosophy that someone who has a heavy occupation will have the choice between either early retirement or a higher pension? So that person will be able to choose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u130	Yeah, I think that's a good method.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u131	That's a clear answer. You are sticking to that choice, even if the social partners come up with another suggestion? That's the philosophy of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u132	I'm paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u133	It gets better and better as time goes on. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u134	Mr President, may I ask all my questions about supplementary pensions at once? They are not really about the agreement, but about supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u135	Yeah, okay. We shall therefore add the questions put by Mrs Becq, Mr De Roover and Mr De Vriendt on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u136	Mrs Temmerman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u137	Mr. Chairman, I'm starting the marathon. I'll make the explanation very brief. We all know that there is an agreement by the Group of Ten and that the Prime Minister has confirmed that this agreement will be implemented. Mr Minister, my first question is how an employee will be able to keep an overview of the minimum annual returns from the past. A distinction will be made between the past return and the future agreement. In what way will the employee be able to keep the overview? Are they entitled to the minimum income from the supplementary pension? In what way will you ensure that there is sufficient transparency about these minimum returns from the past for each individual? A second question concerns the fact that insurers have insisted on reducing the agreed return. Today there are insurers who pay the supplementary pension at the age of 60 due to the low market rate, regardless of the beneficiary's preference. The result is that the latter always has to pay the highest tax rate. Insurers make use of this option because they have still contractually determined that the payout should be made at the age of 60. What will you do to stop this practice so that employees are no longer obliged to raise their capital at the age at which they are taxed at the highest tax rate? The next question, Minister, is linked to it. We know that the government agreement states that there must be a generalisation of the second pillar of pensions. In the light of this agreement on the adjustment of the minimum return, I have the following questions. How will you ensure that there is an increase in the use and level of payments in supplementary pensions, given that the attractiveness of additional deposits is reduced by the changes in the minimum return? What concrete plans do you have to generate additional payments on supplementary pensions? In your policy paper of November 2014, you talk about encouraging public authorities to make additional efforts to build up the supplementary pension for contractual staff. What is the state of play in this respect? You referred to it earlier in your reply. In the same policy paper, you also discuss the challenge of the social partners to achieve a contribution level of at least 3% of wages in the long term. What is the state of play in this respect? The government agreement states that the government will examine the strengthening of the third pillar. In what direction do you or the government wish to adapt the third pillar? Will you also advocate a fixed minimum return in the third pillar or an increase in tax deductibility? An agreement has been reached on the reduction, but that was mainly the demand of insurers because they said that they no longer came from the costs. It is necessary to have transparency about the costs that insurers charge. Are you prepared to go into that? If necessary, I shall ask again about the different costs. Experience shows that different insurers have different costs and that they are very different. That's not normal. Do you consider the adjusted minimum return of 1.75 % as a net return, so no more costs can be charged? Will you also investigate how the exit costs that insurers charge to employers can be adjusted? There is also a need for an adjustment in this area. Are you prepared to give more freedom to the supplementary pension market now that the minimum return guarantee has been adjusted downwards, for example by adjusting the costs of administration and the exit by law? I have a few more questions about the profits that have been made in the past. The insurers now say that they can't pay it because the costs are too big, but what happened in the past with the profits, one can only guess. Are you prepared to investigate what happened to those profits? Did they build up? Are they in the insurance companies or are they just paid out to the shareholders? Secondly, do you have figures on the effective accumulated returns of the insurance companies' past? Finally, will you take the initiative to make the yields paid more transparent, in particular the part of the yield paid which may be above the minimum return? If that is higher, a supplement can be added. That's what the agreement says. However, it requires a high level of transparency for insurers to release their returns and to be able to make that calculation. I think a number of decisions will have to be made there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u138	Minister, following Prime Minister Michel's explanation in plenary on 22 October, I have a number of questions to which he has not replied. The Group of Ten has therefore reached agreement on the revision of the supplementary pension. Can you give a detailed overview of the changes, including technical ones? I would also like to receive an overview of the transitional measures for existing contracts. How will the agreement reached ensure that workers continue to benefit from the long-term parking of part of their wages and supplementary pensions, as the guaranteed return falls significantly? Finally, is it still your intention to have a higher percentage of wages paid into the second pillar? How are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u139	Minister, we are pleased that the agreement is there and that it is being followed. However, I still have a number of questions, including those relating to death cover. The agreement provides for this, but there are a lot of sleepers there who do not even know that their capital may be at risk when they die. Are you taking initiatives to inform these people or to make it possible for some sort of coverage to be achieved? Another question concerns the moment of withdrawal of the supplementary pension, as Mrs Temmerman also referred to it. It is, however, planned to link this further to the age of the early retirement pension in the long term. That seems logical to me, but we are being asked by worried people who have already committed themselves and by the group of active people who are not so far from retirement age. There are also questions about existing contracts which end at the age of 60 and where the amounts should be taken up. What happens to that? So I am talking here about the contractual clause in relation to the legal provision. It is important to find a solution to this. Perhaps we should take a good look at the problems that still exist in relation to supplementary pensions. I have just heard you speak in reply to a question about civil servants about an adaptation of legislation to supplementary pensions and about social dialogue. Perhaps it would be a good idea to draw up an inventory and see how additional adjustments needed should be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u140	Minister, we are all touched by the agreement on which the various speakers have spoken. For example, we have questions about transparency, as Mr Temmerman now has questions about it. This transparency is very important to monitor the reliability of the system and to increase confidence among those involved. The agreement revised the unrealistic guarantee of return in the existing WAP, as it threatened to make the whole second pillar system unbelievable, to the detriment of all stakeholders. The government has committed itself to implementing the agreement in its entirety, and this deserves our support, as has just been said. The fact that the guarantee of return will become variable and therefore more realistic in the future should be the case. The fixing of a fixed interest rate over a very long period runs counter to any economic logic. That being said, the employee is, of course, entitled to a sufficient return to keep the formula interesting as a supplement to the statutory pension. That's the whole system's intention. In point 2 of the social chord a formula is devised to calculate the efficiency using a number of parameters. Point 3 of the agreement provides for a band for that variable rate, with a minimum guaranteed rate of return of 1.75 %. It seems logical to me that a minimum rate of return should be imposed, but there is also a maximum rate of return of 3.75%. I have talked about this with a number of people from the field and there is a great deal of uncertainty about it. Minister, I have two questions for you. In the case of an inflation rate of 2% considered normal, a maximum return is 1.75 % in real terms. However, when inflation increases, an insured return of 3.75% reduces real interest rates. There is then a fear that the upper limit of the agreed band means that the employee cannot benefit from a higher market rate. This fear is expressed by many people. Can you explain in a technical way how to interpret that maximum return?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u141	As the Prime Minister said, the government will implement the agreement of the Group of Ten in its entirety, including the section on supplementary pensions. In order to implement the Agreement, the Government has agreed with the Group of Ten to work together on the practical implementation and implementation of the Agreement. Government engineers and the Group of Ten will work together to that end. I would ask for a little patience for the technical clarification, because the technical implementation of the agreement still has to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u142	With regard to the information on the minimum statutory guarantee provided to the member, I can inform Mrs Temmerman that the supplementary pension law already provides information on the guaranteed amount on the basis of the minimum return and this through the pension sheet. I would like to inform Mr De Vriendt that the agreement reached relates to the minimum protection of members of the employer's liability. In addition to this protection, the employee still enjoys the real returns of pension institutions. Moreover, this minimum protection, which was decided by the Group of Ten, remains interesting compared to the current low interest rates. For the rest, I can confirm to Mr De Vriendt that the government agreement stipulates that the social partners will be asked to determine a percentage of wage increases which can be used for contributions to supplementary pension plans in order to achieve the contribution level of at least 3% in the long term in each sector. The time of payment of supplementary pension benefits is currently determined by the pension rules. The Act on supplementary pensions merely provides that this payment may not be carried out before the age of 60. If the payment, as you indicate, is made at 60 years, this is most likely because the final age, as defined in the pension regulations, is fixed at that age. The question you are asking underlines the importance of the measure which I am considering and on which the social partners have expressed their views in the agreement of the Group of Ten. As you know, I am considering the time of payment of the supplementary pension corresponding to the time of payment of the statutory pension. In this context, I will examine the cases where pension plans still provide for a retirement age of 60 years, when this age no longer corresponds to the policy of the government which wants to keep employees longer in employment. I confirm that I will continue my efforts to increase not only the number of fellow citizens building up a supplementary pension but also the amount that every fellow citizen is building up. As I will explain in the context of my policy paper, I will take steps to achieve this. I will, together with Minister Borsus, introduce the possibility of a supplementary pension for the self-employed, natural persons. Moreover, I will create the possibility for workers to freely build up a supplementary pension. The file on the building-up of a supplementary pension for contractual staff of the public sector is under preparation. In the context of the negotiations for the next inter-professional agreements, following the negotiation of each inter-professional agreement, I will invite the social partners to determine a percentage of possible wage increases to be allocated to the second pillar so that an amount of 3% can be achieved in the long term in each sector. As far as the third pillar is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this question concerning the prudential framework does not fall within my competence but falls within the competence of the Minister for Employment, Mr Peeters, and the question concerning the fiscal framework falls within the competence of Minister Van Overtveld. I have asked the social partners whether there should be no transparency of the costs to account for the part of the gross financial return consumed by the management of the pension commitment. In the context of the agreement of the Group of Ten, the social partners do not have an answer to this question. In the short term, therefore, I shall give priority to the implementation of the agreement of the Group of Ten. As I have already indicated, in the coming days, the engineers of the government and the technicians of the Group of Ten will jointly implement the agreement reached. I would therefore ask you to show a little patience in the technical explanation. With regard to the costs of retirement which the insurers ask employers, I can tell you that this is part of the prudential rules of the insurers, which is not within my remit but is one of those of the Minister of Work, Kris Peeters. With regard to your last question, Mrs Temmerman, I refer to my answers to questions 1 and 3. I have already answered the questions on past profits in my reply to the written question No. 36, which I was asked by Mr Hedebouw. I hereby hand you a copy of my reply. As far as life assurance is concerned, financial income should be reduced by management costs and technical commissions to be established on the basis of prudential rules, in particular in order to maintain guaranteed interest rates up to the end of the contracts. Then I come to tax burdens and other exceptional costs. If the operating result is positive, part of it is distributed as profit-sharing in the contracts and another part is held as a reserve for future profit-sharing and as a discharge of future losses. A final part is allocated to those who have borrowed sums to build up equity, as these funds represent risk capital. For further information on operating results resulting from life assurance activities and their purpose, please refer to the annual accounts deposited by insurance companies with the National Bank of Belgium. I would also draw your attention to the fact that this matter falls within the competence of my colleague, Mr Peeters, since it concerns the activity of insurance companies. With regard to the rates of return, I also replied in the context of the written question No. 36 by Mr Hedebouw. I can tell you that the assets relating to the supplementary pension activity and their return are not listed separately in the reporting of insurance companies deposited with the National Bank of Belgium. This also falls within the competence of my colleague. As regards the distributed return above the minimum return, the member is already provided with this information via his pension sheet, as the amount of the reserves acquired contains the return granted by the pension institution and the minimum guaranteed amount is shown. The member may, by making a difference between these amounts, identify the return which, if necessary, exceeds the guaranteed minimum return. In reply to your question, Mrs Becq, I can say the following. In fact, the Group of Ten agreement only provides for death cover for new sleepers. In the very near future, therefore, I will concentrate primarily on the implementation of the agreement reached. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in implementation of the Law of 15 May 2014, members will be able to have a global idea of their supplementary pension rights, including the expected benefit in the event of a possible death, through the consultation of the supplementary pension database that will be accessible through a secure internet application from the end of 2016. With regard to the measure I intend to take, which is to provide for the payment of the supplementary pension at the time when the statutory pension takes effect, the social partners in the Group of Ten have expressed their views on transitional measures. In accordance with the government's commitment, I will integrate these transitional measures into the draft law that I will submit to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. Moreover, under this draft law, I will examine the question of pension plans which provide for an exit age of 60 years, although this age no longer corresponds to the government's policy of keeping employees longer at work. In reply to your question, Mr De Roover, I have the following to say. As part of its agreement, the Group of Ten decided to link the evolution of the guaranteed return to that of the OLO at ten years, with a minimum of 1.75 % and a maximum of 3.75 %. The Group of Ten has therefore decided not to link evolution to inflation. It is about the choice of the social partners that the government has said it will respect. The agreement reached relates to the minimum protection of members of the employer's liability. In addition to this protection, the employee always enjoys the real returns of pension institutions which could be higher than the result of the maximum limit of 3.75 %. The latter is more than the current interest rate of 3.25 %. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u143	Mr De Vriendt asked him to apologize, because he had to leave urgently. He will take note of your reply in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u144	Minister, you have tried to give an answer here and there. I understand that a number of technical clarifications cannot yet be given, but people are concerned with these questions. You did not really answer the question of how the employee will retain the overview he had so far with the old WAP. As far as the timing of payment is concerned, there is a link with the contract, Minister. There is, anyway, but a lot of people prefer it not to be paid out now, but later. In view of the rise in retirement age, this does not make any sense either. We must look at how this is going to be dealt with. You said that, according to the government agreement, you really want to go for the supplementary pension. You also want to see a large part of the supplementary pension in the wage negotiations. With these low interest rates, that will be very difficult. People would get it better in pay and invest it elsewhere, as it is now. In the past it was also much more than 3.25 %. I have read your answer very quickly now. In fact, it is not possible to determine how much return there has been. Of course, that cannot be verified, because it has been much higher in the past. This is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u145	The tax advantages are very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u146	It depends on how and how the money is spent. We want to be part of the second pillar of supplementary pensions, but you still need to take a number of measures to make it more attractive. With such low interest rates, people will rightly choose their money in wage negotiations. I really believe, Minister, that transparency should be maintained. There is no transparency about the costs and not about the returns, but the government immediately responds to the calls and the bullshit of the insurers that they are supposedly not gonna make it anymore, without identifying those two aspects. Actually, that's not correct. There must be transparency about these costs. The differences are too great to say that the costs are real. I would ask you to take an initiative in this. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ad interim, I have already asked for a separate committee session to be held on the whole issue of the second pillar and supplementary pensions. Now there's a deal. I understand that a number of technical matters still need to be worked out, but after that we need to have a special session on technical questions on supplementary pensions. As far as I am concerned, the people in the insurance sector are also present. They can explain where the problem lies with employers and employees. I hope you will pass on my question to the President. I have already mentioned this at the Conference of Presidents. I have not been asked to set up a separate committee for this purpose. But it has been said that it was possible within the Social Affairs Committee. I suggest that, in agreement with the Minister, we reserve time within this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u147	I would never have thought that such a heavy responsibility would be placed on my shoulders, but this proposal could be considered in the course of the work. The problem concerns not only insurance companies, but also pension funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u148	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that all the details are not yet clear and that you want to implement the agreement first. The concern of those 60 years remains. The honourable Member has also referred to this issue and you have already replied to it. On the one hand, there are people who want to postpone the payout until after the age of 60, on the other hand, there are people who, for example, are diagnosed with their 59th cancer and wonder if they would postpone it because they have no death cover. This uncertainty and uncertainty in different situations is very strong. I think that is a good thing, because that means that people are working on it. It is therefore all the more important to give reassurance and security. I suspect that this has been one of the reasons for reaching an agreement on supplementary pensions. There is also a demand for transparency with us, including as regards the cost structure. People want more information about the supplementary pension. You have just referred to Sigedis, but the information must also be easily accessible. When the negotiations were still under way at the social partners' level, we were certainly not in favour of holding discussions, hearings or in-depth questions and discussions here in committee. We weren't asking for a special committee either, but we would like to have an afternoon or a day with all the partners, insurance, employers and employees, where we can answer all questions, get clarity and give the concerns that we hear on the ground. I know that this is something for the organisation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u149	Minister, I also understand the technical constraints imposed on you in this regard. Since I asked a question on transparency at the beginning of the evening, I can only share the concerns of both previous speakers. I very much regret that this part of the social agreement has failed. I don't think that's a sufficient reason to consider it handled. As far as my specific question is concerned, you have rightly pointed out that 3.75 is more than 3.25, but I am still a little hungry when it comes to the fact that, in the event of a run-down inflation and/or an increase in the market interest rate, we are merely guaranteeing the employer and that everything else remains a little in the dark. At a low interest rate, the situation as we know it today, the agreement made does indeed offer an interesting net return. We are likely to remain in this situation for the foreseeable future, but the intention is to make an agreement which is not only workable under current market conditions. I can perfectly imagine situations, economically speaking, which would mean that the maximum return would actually undermine the system, because it would make it uninteresting. That is a concern in that part of the social agreement, which we, as a loyal partner, will carry out to the full. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u150	If you will allow me, I will ask this last question from the chair before we fall into the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u151	Minister, no matter how we run it, the current asylum crisis will create additional challenges for our social system. This will also be the case for the pension system, but it is likely that this will only happen in the long term. The first effects will be rather minor, but still: Governor, Covérest prévoir. One of the challenges will be to collect the right data that will determine the pension rights of recognised refugees in the future. Given the conflict situations in many countries of origin, this will be a hellish task. I am thinking, for example, of pension rights built up by benefits abroad. Often the necessary documents simply cannot be requested or even are no longer available. It is of course of the utmost importance that everyone can count on proper pension calculation, both in one direction and in the other, and that we can prevent abuse if necessary. That abuse would, of course, undermine confidence in the system. That's why I have the following questions. What measures exist or are possible to exclude any abuse in this regard? I am thinking here of pensions that would be calculated on the basis of documents whose validity cannot be adequately verified. What impact do you see in the long term on the payment of minimum pensions for recognised refugees with a limited period of employment in our own country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u152	Mr President, when a recognised refugee in Belgium starts a retirement career and retires, the same rules and procedures will be applied for his pension calculation as for any other retired person. Today's proceedings already sufficiently exclude abuse. Periods abroad are only taken into account in so far as they are covered by either the European regulations or a bilateral treaty. The pension institution of the country concerned must provide an official certificate of the person concerned's career data. These career data may be important for the fulfilment of the career conditions of the minimum pension or early retirement. In addition, pensions are only paid for the periods of insurance completed in Belgium. This is also true for the minimum pension. For example, only 10/45 of the minimum pension will be received if only 10 years of work have been completed in Belgium. In the case of a country which is not covered by European regulations or bilateral agreements, such as Syria, foreign careers will in no way have an impact on the Belgian pension decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u153	Thank you, Minister, for this technical clarification, which partly responds to the question I have asked. There is another dimension, but it is separate from this question, or rather, this is a new one, and I do not want to burden you with that anymore today. I should therefore just like to thank you for your reply. Maybe we'll come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic262x.u154	I believe that the day can be ended with this. I thank the Minister and his staff for their presence and active participation. This also applies, of course, to the support we have received from staff. I wish everyone a good night.
