ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u1	We have a series of energy-related issues on the agenda. At the end of last year, we had a debate on the relief plan. It is possible that some questions have been answered in this debate. It is up to each member to inform the secretariat if he or she wishes to retain any matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u2	Mr President, in your view, the two questions I tabled (No 413 and No 461) have been answered both with regard to the clearance plan and with regard to SNCB, since we have had a parallel debate on SNCB with Minister Galant. I therefore withdraw my two questions and shorten the debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lalieux. Each colleague has, of course, the individual freedom to maintain or not to maintain questions that had originally been asked. Do other colleagues wish to take one or the other item off the agenda? You can always inform the secretariat. Mr Yüksel withdrew his question No 334 on agenda item 4. If there are no other comments, we shall resume the order of business. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 101 by Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u4	Mr President, that question may be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u5	Madam Minister, I was somewhat surprised to read in the newspaper that Mr Yüksel's question was answered that the problem for Ghent will not be resolved. Mr Yüksel had tabled his question after me and after Mr Calvo, and it is strange to read that answer in the newspaper. I therefore understand that Mr Yüksel is withdrawing his question, because you have already answered it at another echelon. However, I would like to ask my question here. I will not repeat everything, enough hearings and discussions have already been held. However, there remains a major problem for the port of Ghent. I am absolutely not arguing for pro domo or for special treatment from one city to another. I call for the treatment of a large economic centre in our country. We have heard in various hearings the criteria used in a blackout. Elijah has clearly stated that they will also apply the same criteria for the exit plan, even if that is not provided for in the law. My question remains: what is the reason why the port of Ghent is still subject to the criteria of the exit plan? I repeat that these are 180 companies, including six Seveso companies, a hospital, five RVTs and about 70 600 inhabitants. I'd like to drop that last one. It is mainly about economic factors. I do not understand why the port of Ghent is still in that shutdown plan and you seem to refuse to change anything about it. My questions are as follows. What criteria are really being used? How come the port of Ghent keeps falling into that? What's your opinion on that? Do you think it is normal for such a large economic centre to fall into that? Will you take measures to ensure that the port does not fall into it at least in the future? I would also like to ask once again how communication with the provincial and municipal authorities is taking place. You know that the port of Ghent and the city administration of Ghent have been sued for this. In the meantime, communication in this area remains very silent. The only way to communicate is through the newspaper. That's unworthy of a government and a provincial government. I would have liked an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u6	Madam Minister, the closure plan has indeed been discussed several times in this committee. Initially there was chaos and a total lack of information. This seems to be improving, but there are still a number of bottlenecks, including the situation of the port of Ghent and the way in which it is communicated, or better, is not communicated. A while ago, the Ghent mayor Termont stated that he might have found a solution to remove the port from the exit plan. For that, he had to appeal to your goodwill to change the plan. I read, like Mrs Temmerman, that a question from Mr Yüksel has already been answered that the exit plan remains as it is, containing the port of Ghent. I still have a number of questions, Madam Secretary. I do not have the feeling that all my questions have already been answered. Mr Yüksel may think so, but I do not. What is your response today and what was your response to the concrete question of the Ghent city council? Will you still allow the port of Ghent, which is an important economic factor, to be removed from the exit plan? Have you received similar questions from other cities and municipalities to adjust the exit plan? In the meantime, is the list of priority customers complete? What happens to the health care institutions? They were a problem which was also raised here during the hearing. Are they included in that list? The governors were also concerned about this at the hearing. What initiatives are you taking right now to have the exit plan operational, if we needed it in the coming winter or at this time? Although the probability is low, it is nevertheless important to ask that question. Will there be a review or evaluation of the current way of working? Is there going to be a new version of the plan? When will the Ministerial Decision of 3 January 2005 be recast? I've asked a whole series of questions. The problem is important enough, however, to put it at the present stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to reply to these questions in the committee dedicated to analysis and a general debate on the discharge plan on 16 December. In particular, you were not present at this committee, which I do not blame you for, far from it. I will therefore refer you to the full report of this committee for all the details. As far as the port of Ghent is concerned, I had already told you that I had been contacted from the beginning of this legislature by the mayor of Ghent, who had sent me a copy of a letter which he had already sent to my predecessor. I had the opportunity to meet him and explained to him that a priori, I was entering a plan of relief imagined a few years earlier with the criticisms we know and within which I was not going to enter immediately for this winter, given the coming of this government close to the winter of 2014-2015. I did not wish to disturb a system which was intended in a balanced manner throughout the territory, having regard only to the electrical system present on Belgian territory and without necessarily having regard to the particular infrastructures situated on that territory, hence the question of each other. I have, of course, received a lot of requests from the governors, who are part of a chain of intervention in the event of discharge and are located just below the federal and the Walloon Region and just above the communes. Indeed, all these Belgian authorities must react one after the other, starting with the local authorities, in order to go back, in the worst case case, if solutions are not found, to the federal level. I would add that customers receiving electricity, i.e. companies present at the port of Ghent, are also mobilised, as is the case with everyone. This is a question of raising awareness in terms of energy saving and of measures to replace the temporary lack of energy in case of discharge, as is the case for critical infrastructure, in particular hospitals, which are organised to do so. I would like to turn for a moment to the care centres, although I have already dealt with this issue in the committee on 16 December. This is a regional matter, therefore governed by the regional governments involved in the chain of the emergency plan or, in any case, the existing security plan. In fact, for more than a year, the Committee has been reminded of all stakeholders through regular communications. It is ready to be implemented in case of discharge. But to return to the problem of Ghent and other infrastructure, on the occasion of the reading of letters that I received, I was able to see that critical infrastructures in both the north and the south of the country – I am thinking here of the port of Ghent, the airports of Liège and Charleroi, as well as the 20 demerger stations in the north and south of our territory – are in a particular situation that should be analysed. I therefore asked Elia to analyse how many megawatts would not be saved if these infrastructures were removed from the relief plan, in a well-understood Belgian territorial balance. I'm gradually getting the answers. I have also recently received a letter from each governor concerned, for the three infrastructures: the port of Ghent and the airports of Liège and Charleroi, asking me to have a special consideration with regard to these infrastructures and to consider the question of their exit from the clearance plan. As I said on 16 December, I am not opposed to this because the non-saving of energy, as a result of the exit of these critical infrastructures which must work continuously with all the necessary safety, is marginal and not substantial; in this case, I would of course not see any inconvenience in getting them out of the plan. So there's nothing wrong, and I'm now getting calculations from Elias in this area that will make me make a decision shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u8	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If I understand correctly, there is still a possibility that the port of Ghent falls out of the exit plan. This doesn't match the information in the paper. However, I am very happy to hear this. Of course, the question remains as to why the port of Ghent originally ended up in that exit plan. I have not yet been able to hear anything about the criteria which have ensured that all other industrial centres fall out of the switch-off plan and not the port of Ghent. However, the port of Ghent meets all the criteria: there are Seveso companies, hospitals and continuous companies such as ArcelorMittal and Volvo. Let us hope that we will not need the shutdown plan and that you will have sufficient data to leave the port of Ghent out of the shutdown plan. I also hope that these criteria will be reviewed in the future. Now we are talking about the port of Ghent, but next time it could be another zone. You will agree that it is very delicate to include such an industrial zone in a switch-off plan. Madam Minister, Elia has also confirmed that it is not really possible for such an industrial site to be included in a switch-off plan. The criteria are what they are. We have not been able to see that. I hope that these criteria will be reviewed in the future. I hope that we will never have to rely on the exit plan. If this is the case, we do not think it is possible for such sites to be included in a switch-off plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u9	Madam Minister, first of all, let us hope that we will never need the plan, but with the recent decisions, that opportunity will be increased again. With the old energy policy, of course, there is a greater chance that we will ever have to activate the switch-off plan. Your answer surprises me, Madam Secretary. It is possible that the port of Ghent will be removed from the exit plan. First a plan was proposed with the port in it, then you stated, following a question from Mr Yüksel, that the port remained in the plan, and today you say that the port might still be removed from the plan. The soap opera continues, and that for such an important site. Like Mrs Temmerman, I understand that, pending the correct data, you could decide to remove the port from the plan. That's how I understood your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u10	Is there a question of interpretation of the answer? Could you clarify the answer, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u11	Mr Calvo, I understand that you have read Mr Yüksel's statements in the press. This is not what we should read, but the full report of December 16, 2014. I would therefore refer you to this report where you can read my full answer. There is no change of attitude. As I have just told you, there is, from the moment we have discussed it, a change in the events which consists of saying that, if ELIA gives me the elements in terms of power saved and lost especially in relation to the port of Ghent, I "could" make this decision. The subjunctive means what it means. My attitude is therefore the same as that of December 16 but has not been well reported in the press Mrs Temmerman, I understand that the port of Ghent is very important, but it is not just the port of Ghent. Belgium is dotted with infrastructure as important as that of the port of Ghent. The discharge plan is drawn up on a royal decree of 2005 which is based, itself, on a rule dating back to 2002, namely a coherent set that exists now for ten years and which, I repeat, must be subject, to revision but not when one has "the nose on the handlebar". We were too close to winter to start this kind of review. We have all the possible and imaginable aspects of all the existing infrastructures in this country, but at some point we still have to remember this. I do not repeat the reasoning that you all know. From the moment one has to balance a network and one of the means to do so is the management of demand – which goes so far as to introduce a capacity to unload in certain places when one does not have the necessary supply at times of consumption and peaks of consumption because the temperatures are very cold – everyone is equal. I've already said it and I'm saying it again. You have the last word but all Belgians are in solidarity and the port of Ghent is not the peak of the Mirandole of strategic and economic importance in Belgium. It's not just him. If we forgot that ten years ago, it's not my fault, and I would like to take it into account today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain in the timing of the questions/answers. Let us not enter into a debate of ideas. Parliament has the final say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u13	Madam Minister, I have never stressed that the port of Ghent or whatever is more important than anyone. At the time of your predecessor, I was one of the few in this committee to say that we must show absolute solidarity in these matters and that everything that is Community should be excluded. So I'm really not gonna take it when you say something like that. This is just about criteria. Madam Minister, if you say that a royal decision has been made in the past with a number of criteria, you should know that the port of Ghent is simply outside those criteria. If this royal decree is followed, then the port of Ghent is out of the question, because it is in all these matters. There is a major industrial hazard, there are Seveso companies, there are hospitals nearby and so on. So the port of Ghent is out of the question. I see your associate denies that, but Elia here at the hearing herself acknowledged that this is true. So we must not say that it is not. Madam Secretary, it's about security. It's not about us being more important than anyone, it's about security. I find your attitude in this somewhat astonishing. However, I remember the positive point, namely that you still consider it possible for the port of Ghent to be excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u14	Madam Secretary, one surprises me in another. It is said that the port of Ghent is the summum of everything and that there is some kind of excessive protectionism among Ghent MEPs. In fact, I regret the fact that in this way you are making a further polemic of a business technical debate. I understand your answer now. You say that what has appeared in the press is wrong. I understand that you would like to examine whether the port of Ghent and any other sites with similar economic relevance are still able to be removed from the exit plan. That is what you said here on 6 December. Today is January 6th. Winter is in full swing and you are still unable to clarify important economic sites. It is natural that we as Members of this House should be concerned about this and that Mr Termont as Mayor of Ghent says that this cannot be done. So I would really like to call on you not to clarify a matter of days or months in the very short term. It is not possible that there is any uncertainty about this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, let us decide that the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u16	Madam Minister, I asked a number of questions on the subject in the previous legislature. The answers were often in the same line back then. In 2010, the then government decided to invest in the MYRRHA project, a fourth generation research project, hoping to raise a lot of foreign money. In recent years, the answers to parliamentary questions have always shown that this foreign money is not yet a reality. In the initial period, investment costs amounted to EUR 960 million. It was the ambition to raise 60% of that money from partners abroad. With my first question, I want to find out whether financial agreements have already been signed by third countries. If so, which one? Can Parliament therefore have access to these agreements? The project is followed by an ad hoc follow-up group, which thus monitors the claim of MYRRHA. What were the latest findings of that follow-up group? Is there a substantive adjustment or not? Do you still believe in MYRRHA? What are the findings of the guidance committee on this matter? I had to add a second question because the first one dates from a while ago. MYRRHA is included in the federal government's investment list for the Juncker plan, the European Union's investment plan. MYRRHA is one of the many projects the federal government has submitted. I noticed that the cost of the project in the list of investments is no longer EUR 960 million, but EUR 1.5 billion. The cost price would thus already have risen significantly compared to 2010. That is why I have a second set of questions, Madam Secretary. The increase from EUR 960 million to EUR 1.5 billion is not a detail. Where does that difference come from? Is there a new estimate of the cost for the MYRRHA project? What's this new assessment? Can you, phase by phase, sub-project by sub-project, give a concrete overview of the cost? The two questions together are very simple. In recent years, you have established that the project has not found any foreign investors. Is that still true? Especially when costs increase, the MYRRHA project deserves reflection and debate; hence my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u17	Mr Calvo, I would like to point out that research on fourth generation nuclear power plants is only a limited area of application of MYRRHA. One of the main areas of application of MYRRHA is the study of the transmutation of high-radioactive waste, the conversion to waste with a shorter lifespan, which does not avoid geological disposal but makes it easier. Other applications of MYRRHA include the study of fusion reactor materials and the production of radioisotopes for nuclear medicine. I would also like to point out that, with regard to the decommissioning of MYRRHA, an estimate of the costs of dismantling and remediation is already available and that an annual contribution is already foreseen in the operating costs of the research reactor. It goes without saying that this estimate as well as the annual contribution will have to be refined later upon the development of the concept in more detail. As regards financial agreements signed with third countries. No agreement has yet been signed with third countries for participation in MYRRHA. Since the beginning of the project in 1998, research collaborations have been signed with various research institutions in various European and non-European countries. These collaborations represent an average contribution in kind per year of around €3 million. With the European Commission, collaboration has existed since 1999. From 1999 to 2013, this represents 14.3 million euros in direct contributions and of the order of 29.2 million in kind. Since the decision of the Belgian government in March 2010, partnerships to make the necessary investments in our country have been actively sought. This requires intergovernmental commitments. In some countries, discussions have been ongoing for some time. But, of course, they take place in the utmost discretion. The financial crisis has had a definite impact on the decision-making of our potential partners. I can also inform you that, following the evaluation of the MYRRHA project's contribution to the European Commission's research and innovation strategy, the Commission has confirmed its commitment to the MYRRHA project. Under the H2020 programme, it has launched a EUR 11.25 million support project for MYRRHA. Outside Europe, negotiations with Japan are very advanced. The latter country has taken up the MYRRHA project as an essential intermediate step in its overall strategy for the management of nuclear waste by separation and transmutation. Japan envisages a participation of at least 10 per cent in the project. A letter of interest from Japan for MYRRHA was received by SCK-CEN. The Japanese government is now working on a multi-year plan for Japan's participation in MYRRHA. In addition, Germany has established an international committee for the evaluation of the MYRRHA project and the opportunity for Germany to participate. The report was presented to the German Government and discussion on possible participation is currently under way. These positive developments, in addition to the significant results already achieved, convinced the new government to continue to support the project. The government has decided on its progressive support for the continuation, in an international context, of the research needed in innovative solutions for high-level radioactive waste, the qualification of materials for fusion reactors, the maintenance of the production of medical radioisotopes in our country and basic nuclear research. You then asked me about the findings of the ad hoc follow-up group on the last progress report. The ad hoc monitoring group for the MYRRHA project took note of the latest progress report. This group asked the SCK-CEN to prepare a synthesis report for the period 2010-2014 describing the progress made and the economic return and also indicating how the project could be continued if the government decided to do so. As has been the case with my predecessors on many occasions, I repeat that these progress reports are working documents and are not forwarded to Parliament. Moreover, this was not foreseen in the decision of the Council of Ministers of 6 March 2010, when the Council of Ministers asked SCK-CEN to draft this report for the period 2010-2014. With regard to the Juncker Plan, it was in this positive context of looking for potential partners at European and non-European level that the government proposed the MYRRHA project in the list of Belgian projects for the next investment plan of the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. I can inform you that the MYRRHA project is also one of the projects proposed by the services of the European Commission, in particular DG Research and Innovation. This demonstrates once again the interest in this project as a major European research infrastructure. The cost of any major investment project in the final definition phase, such as the MYRRHA project today, is being refined almost continuously. We have chosen to include in this list an amount of EUR 1,500 million in value 2014 and I can give you the concrete elements that have enabled us to reach this amount. On the one hand, in 2009, the investment cost of the MYRRHA project was estimated at EUR 960 million, the 2009 value. Everything increases and this amount has been updated in 2014 and corresponds to €1,100 million, or 1.1 billion. I would like to recall that following the Fukushima accident in 2011, the Belgian government chose to apply stress tests not only to nuclear power plants but also to all nuclear research facilities, including future infrastructure. In order to meet these new safety requirements established by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, in light of the lessons learned from the Fukushima accident, the SCK-CEN adapted the design of MYRRHA accordingly. In particular, redundancy of passive cooling systems has been added and important anti-seismic systems have also been added. Subject to further refinement in the phase of the advanced preliminary project, it is estimated that the costs of these new systems not included in the 2009 initial budget raise the amount already updated from EUR 100 million to EUR 150 million. We thus obtain a high estimate for the MYRRHA project of €1,250 million. To this amount, it has been decided to apply a security margin of 20% to take account of unforeseen events, which ultimately raises the figure to EUR 1,500 million, the 2014 value.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u18	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. So you confirm that the cost of MYRRHA has increased substantially since the launch of the project, from EUR 960 million to EUR 1.5 billion. That can't be a surprise, because that's always the case for new nuclear projects. What is the most important news today, ladies and gentlemen, at least on this subject, because there will be other interesting things to discuss? The MYRRHA project, which the government apparently still believes in, will cost EUR 1.5 billion. In 2010, it was said that the Belgian government would pay 40% of the project, while abroad would finance 60%. They had two years to do that. This was the 2010 commitment: they were to raise money between 2010 and 2012. Today is 6 January 2015, Madam Secretary. How much was picked up? Zero euros! You confirmed that again today. There is still no signed financial agreement. Why not? The world has changed, and new nuclear projects such as MYRRHA, which is essentially a research project on fourth generation nuclear energy, no longer have a future. MYRRHA will never provide a solution for the current generation of waste, because that is already vibrant. There's nothing MYRRHA can do with that. It remains a project on fourth-generation nuclear energy. Who's interested in that? I fall off my chair when you say that Germany and Japan would be interested. Germany is the country of the Energiewende, but you are here to say that it will probably want to invest in MYRRHA. How naive are you anyway? After Fukushima Japan decided to withdraw from nuclear power entirely. You are now saying that Japan will want to invest in a fourth generation Molse nuclear reactor. Please, stop that! People have been looking for money for MYRRHA for years. It is not found and in the meantime the project costs almost twice the amount initially announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u19	I beg you, minister, but the last word will be for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u20	Mr President, I know that, but we have a little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u21	I would remind you that the exchange of ideas is over and that the duration of intervention on oral questions is determined by the Rules of Procedure. Please, you have the floor and we listen to you in terms of content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u22	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come back to two points. First, the MYRRHA project and the installation of a new nuclear power plant are two different elements. I repeat, therefore, that MYRRHA is a new multi-purpose research infrastructure. Then, to take up an expression I had already used, I understand your preventions in that you know of Germany and Japan, but to judge in the place of experts participating in this project, who maintain contacts with these international bodies, who are we to judge in the place of German and Japanese officials in relation to a multi-purpose research infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u23	Mr Calvo, I give you the floor for a final and brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u24	Madam Minister, I invite you to take a look at the various debates that have already taken place in our committee. MYRRHA is a project that could possibly mean something about waste, but not anymore for the vitrified waste. The vitrified waste of the current generation of nuclear power plants cannot be used in MYRRHA. In today's changing world, we are seeing an increasing number of countries leaving nuclear power. Other and more efficient solutions also exist for medical applications. MYRRHA remains essentially a project towards a fourth-generation nuclear energy and for that reason it does not get off the ground. You say that there are contacts and that you believe those responsible for the MYRRHA project. We have been hearing the message that people are talking to people for four or five years. But look at what happens in countries like Japan and Germany: they will not invest in projects like MYRRHA. In the meantime, it costs twice what was initially announced. I don't understand why you keep defending that with your hand and your tooth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u25	Colleagues, we are in an endless debate or without substance and therefore the academic formula is probably not suitable for this type of debate. There you go!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u26	Question No 413 by Mrs Lalieux was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u27	The combined question No. 426 by Mr Vande Lanotte was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u28	Mr President, Minister, this question is indeed old. Soon I will be asking questions about Objective 1 and Objective 2, but this question concerns the timing of 2025. In this respect, in the past, but also recently, contradictory statements were made by you and your colleagues in the government. I am going to ask questions about the extension of the life span of Objective 1 and Objective 2, but specifically about the timing of 2025, your position and that of this government is not really clear. You will come up with a bill to extend the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2 by 10 years and bring it all to 2025, but in 2025 you said in one of your first statements that you will see. Following the decisions on Objective 1 and Objective 2, you have given an interview in L.O.L.Echo in which you say that the timing of 2025 will be reviewed later. In this way, you create total uncertainty about the end date of the core trip and how the law will be amended by you. What is the government's position on the end date of the core exit? Is this one planned or not for 2025? Indeed, investors in alternatives are entitled to clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u29	Mr President, as you can see, I have tried to be brief on my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u30	As always, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u31	Mr President, in doing so, it has been decided to group them together. I don't know what the right technique is!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u32	It was the secretariat of the committee that consolidated your questions. You have the time allotted for two questions, two times two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u33	Minister, my first question is about the energy transition fund. Indeed, the Council of Ministers announced, at the same time as it announced its decision to extend the operation of Doel 1 and 2, the creation of an energy transition fund to encourage research projects into new innovative energies. This is an ambitious project, but it has not yet been specified. In the topical debate we had in plenary, we focused mainly on the other elements rather than on this point. That is why I would like to ask you specific questions. So what are the amounts that will contribute to this fund in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, that is, during this legislature. In other words, how will this fund be financed and how much? What is the scope of this fund? What missions are assigned to the fund? This is my question about contradictory statements. I want to make it clear here that I do not understand why these two questions have been grouped together because they have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u34	It is the firm that decides whether or not to attach questions. But whatever it is, ask your question! It will be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u35	You will admit, Mr President, that there are two completely different subjects. Having said that, I come to my second question, which is more related to the one put by my excellent colleague Kristof Calvo. Madam Minister, I have here the two press articles that appeared on 19 December, the famous day when, after the Kern or the government made the decision to extend Doel 1 and 2, you gave two interviews, one at L'Avenir and the other at L'Echo. There is one strange thing: the title of L'Echo was "For Marghem, the atom is an option, even after 2025" while the title of L'Avenir was "The exit of nuclear remains for 2025"! Fortunately, few people read and L'Echo and L'Avenir, according to the figures of the Media Information Centre (CIM). This is an opportunity to make the clarity because you will admit that a reader who reads both newspapers can be at least disturbed. The question I ask you is not to know what your reflection is because in L'Echo, you are for extension beyond 2025, and in L'Avenir, you are not for! The question is what is the government's decision on this point? Will he keep the section of the law that states that the release is in 2025 or will he change that section of the law under that legislature? You say to L'Echo, and I can follow you in this regard: "We no longer have a choice. 2025 is ten years from now and we must organize ourselves during this legislature." I repeat my question: what is the government's decision? Will it retain the section of law that specifies that the release is in 2025 or will it change it? I ask you not to turn around the pot and answer us clearly. This will help in the continuation of the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u36	Mr President, I shall start with the semantic analysis of the press. I obviously have the article in front of me. The most interesting – it is not a value judgment in relation to the newspaper, but in relation to the content – is that of L'Echo. First of all, I do not choose the title and the title is not in quotation marks. So I'm not talking, but the journalist draws his own conclusions. If journalists disrupt their readers, their numbers may decrease. But it's none of my business! I said exactly this: "I want to put things down now in a serene way. When you look at the successive statements of previous politicians since 2003, they have multiplied the contradictory positions, each being monomaniacally acquired to a single solution in the field of energy production. I want to put all energy sources at equal distance to find the best energy mix by 2025 and beyond. We have also decided to set up a fund, the modalities of which still need to be defined, how it will be fed and how high it will be. But the aim is to make it possible to invest in innovative energy production and storage projects." The journalist said to me: "You are referring to the successive shifts of political leaders, but who says that your successor will not yet have another policy?" I say, "We don't have a choice anymore. 2025, it's in ten years. We must organize ourselves during this legislature for an energy transition with a good energy mix until 2025 and beyond." Another question from the journalist: "Having seen the importance of the investments to extend Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2, will some not plead for an extension beyond 2025?" I reply: "This government ends in 2019. Another government, therefore – it is pure intellectual logic – will still be able to decide to change the law of exit from nuclear power in 2025. But this government will not make a decision." It is therefore particularly clear, not only in terms of the response to the energy fund – since both are linked – but also in terms of the precise analysis of what I was able to say in the press following the government's decision-making on Thursday 18 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u37	With regard to the energy transition fund, do you have any elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u38	Mr President, I have no further answers. It's an article from December 19th. It's January 6. Of course, Mr. Nollet has, if I may say so, been turbulent from that date until today! Like the government! Therefore, I would like to review the government to determine how it works, to make proposals for food in this area and how high it is. As I read to you in the public sitting, it was difficult in light of the eight criteria set out in the government's decision that morning. This energy fund is intended to invest in innovative energy production and storage projects with a view to implementing a serene and coherent energy transition by 2025 and beyond. But this government will not change the law of exit from nuclear power in 2025. He has no intention of it; he has never said it; he has not thought it; he has not written it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u39	Mr Calvo, would you like to reply briefly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u40	I will always be quite brief, Mr President. You may ask the secretary, but I am already holding it much shorter than during the previous legislature. By the way, that is one of my good intentions for the new year. Madam Secretary, it is not news that you would not amend the law during this term of office. The only legal amendment you will make is deleting the 2015 timing for Objective 1 and Objective 2 and replacing it with 2025. That is not the issue, you do not have to say it here. The issue is not the interview you read out in L.Echo, in which you state that you did not actually say anything. It would be the media's fault. In fact, that is the government's new line of defence, either it is the opposition's fault or the media's fault. If you make contradictory statements, if you communicate badly or if you make wrong choices, it is the fault of the opposition or the media. But this, by the way. It's not just about the interview of L.O.Echo. You have already questioned the exit in 2025 in statements to the RTBF. You gave them an interview of a minute. I'm seeing your employees skimping on pressure. You have already performed various media performances during which you fed the uncertainty around 2025. In this sense, you are continuing the line of your predecessors, yet you say you regret them. You decide to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for 10 years and you again cause doubt in 2025. That is enough; to boycott the core step, you do not have to change the law, but you simply have to cast doubt. You're working on that, you're already putting the core exit at risk by 2025. That is ultimately your hidden agenda, but for people who follow it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u41	What have we learned? We have learned that there will be no amendment to the section of the Act that states that the release is in 2025 under this legislature. You confirmed it. In addition, you are rereading the entire article and saying that it is necessary to organize under this legislature. It means that, anyway, even those who come after will not be able to do it, even if you imagine it. Let us have consistent words! You've reread the consistent part. That is the part relating to contradictory statements. With regard to the energy transition fund component, I admire your response. You say, "I'd like to see the government again to find out." Please, don't hesitate to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u42	Mr Nollet, I know how you listen and I want to be quite clear. My job is to make proposals and I decide, with a government, how this fund will be configured. I obviously don't decide alone. The myth of a man alone or of a woman alone, it has been a long time since it existed, except in the minds of some! Objectively, I have to work to make proposals to the government as part of a debate, as I did for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, in order to configure and find the characteristics that will make the image of this fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u43	In that case, minister, can I give you some advice? Instead of announcing the decision, say you're going to think about it. You announced that this fund was created and now you tell us you have to go back to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u44	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u45	Yes! It was clearly said. You have decided to create an energy transition fund to encourage...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u46	"We decided to create a fund." This does not mean that it is created.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u47	As a result, nothing is yet known about the amounts, the missions and the scope of expertise. You have to go back to the government to get the options validated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u48	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u49	At least tell us what the timetable is for me not to rest the question every week. When will you come back to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u50	As soon as possible, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u51	I will repeat the question quickly in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u52	Colleagues, according to the formula, I must conclude that the incident is closed even if we all know that it is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u53	Mr President, we are not closing anything here, everything is still open!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u54	Question No 461 by Mrs Karine Lalieux was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, I wanted to question you about two events that took place in the commune of Chaumont-Gistoux in Walloon Brabant. There were two successive power cuts that caused concern to the population. On 29 September, nearly 5,000 households were deprived of electricity for almost five hours. On Wednesday, 12 November, a new power cut was observed by the inhabitants of Grez-Doiceau and Chaumont-Gistoux. The difficulties have been quite significant. Some people work at home and have therefore been bothered by these power cuts. From what I've been able to read in the press, but it hasn't been confirmed to me so far, the first incident seems to have been caused after a power cable was ripped off by a third party. The second incident appears to have been caused by a technical problem in a distribution booth. Minister, can you confirm to me the exact causes of these two incidents in order to reassure the public of the punctual and fortuitous nature of these events? Is the source of the problem located on the transmission system or on the distribution system? The short interval between these two cuts is still surprising. Have any measures been taken to prevent this type of incident from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u56	Mr President, the question put by the honourable Member of this committee has received my full attention. I confirm that two power cuts took place, as you say, on 29 September and 12 November 2014 in the territory of the commune of Chaumont-Gistoux, whose electricity distribution network is managed by the services of ORES in Walloon Brabant. This is an incident that occurs on the distribution network that is regionalized. This may lead you to ask questions at the level of the Walloon Region. I have information that seems interesting to me for your file, which is why I am continuing. These two cuts are linked to incidents with totally different causes, although unfortunately they concern the same territory and, consequently, the same users. The first incident, which occurred at 4:03 p.m. on September 29, was due to the removal of an underground cable by a third-party contractor for civil engineering and draining work on behalf of Chaumont-Gistoux. The second incident on 12 November 2014, at 0802 hours, was due to the activation of the ORES local medium voltage network, following a failure of high voltage equipment in a distribution booth, although this equipment was pre-emptively maintained a few months earlier. In both cases, after isolation of the defect, the network recovery manoeuvres were performed via another power supply. In the first case, given the heavy load to be transported over the emergency network, the refuelling of customers had to be carried out in a gradual manner. Although the last client was powered 0532 hours after the incident, it should be noted that more than half of the clients were refueled 0230 hours after the incident. From there, the gradual effect of the restoration of the network. In the second case, with locally installed generators, more than 90 per cent of the homes out of a total of 1600 were refuelled within 0250 hours. Despite the awareness-raising work carried out by the operator of the distribution network concerned, ORES, with regard to entrepreneurs and despite the preventive interviews carried out by ORES on its own facilities, however, incidents on the network may still occur. For the area covered by these two cuts, on the basis of the ORES indicator transmitted by Synergrid, the average annual unavailability of the electricity grid is 40 minutes, while the average for the whole network managed by ORES, i.e. 197 communes in Wallonia plus Fourons, is 47 minutes. Based on this indicator, the municipalities of Grez-Doiceau and Chaumont-Gistoux therefore do not appear to be the site of abnormally frequent average electrical incidents. If you wish to have more information on this indicator or on the monitoring of the general reliability level of the ORES network in Walloon Brabant and in particular in Chaumont-Gistoux, I invite you to contact the Walloon regulator, the CWaPE, which has the competence in this field. Finally, it should be pointed out that DG Energy in charge of the general regulation on electrical installations should only be informed by distribution system operators of an incident in so far as in the course of this incident a person has suffered an electric accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, since 1 July 2009, the social rate is, in most cases, automatically granted to persons or households belonging to one of the eligible categories. I would like to ask you about the specific situation of people who have been denied access to these social rates by the administration and who have subsequently won after an appeal to the Labour Court. We found that they could not always benefit from the social tariff retroactively. In other words, social rates were granted to them from the date of the judgment and not from the date of their application, unjustly denied by the administration. In my view, when a person is recognized in his or her rights as a result of a favourable judgement, sometimes rendered several months or years after the filing of the appeal, he or she should not be disadvantaged in relation to a person who has benefited from a favourable decision of the administration from the outset. Minister, are you aware of this type of case and what is the policy applied by the Federal Public Service Economy when granting the social tariff after a positive appeal to the Labour Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u58	Mr President, dear colleague, it has indeed been brought to my attention that there are situations in which people with disabilities do not agree with the decision taken in the case of recognition of their disability with the administration of the SPF Social Security, Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. After an appeal to the Labour Court, it is possible that persons may be covered by a wider recognition of disability, since the criteria are called into question, and receive a retroactive allowance as a result of this decision. The collection of this allowance is one of the conditions for being part of one of the categories of beneficiaries entitled to the social tariff or to be recognized as a protected customer. The existence of these cases has led to a search by the Legal Service at the level of the Directorate-General for Energy to determine whether the rules for the application of the social tariff are legally correct and legally applied. This research confirmed the legitimacy of the rules for the application of the social tariff and highlighted two points: on the one hand, the social tariff is a secondary right which does not depend on the terms of the Social Security FPS law; on the other, the rules for the application of the social tariff, which take into account the date of decision, are in line with the Royal Decree of 30 March 2007, which states that "any final customer who can prove that he or anyone living under his roof is entitled to a grant decision (...)". The social rate applies on the first day of the quarter at which the date of the decision to belong to a class of eligible beneficiaries was made. Recognition alone does not take into account the granting of the social tariff, so it is not that date which is taken into account. My administration, in collaboration with the Federal Ombudsman and the services of the Social Security FPS are currently looking for a solution to fill the gap between the application and the decision on the recognition of disability with payment of allowances, without affecting the terms of the social tariff which has its own specifications, as I have just explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u59	Minister, I would like to thank you for this ongoing review. Perhaps I will come back to you later to find out the concrete modalities that have been put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u60	If Mrs Jadin does not come to ask her question, this question will be moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u61	Mr President, in part the question is out of date because, since it was tabled, some information has been made public. The fire broke out on 30 November at the Tihange power plant, with the result that reactor 3, one of the last ones that had not yet encountered any problems, had to be shut down as well. My question is about the consequences of this new incident, particularly in terms of shortages and security of supply. Since then, we know that the reactor has been able to restart, but at the time I tabled the question, I did not know when the committee would meet. There may still be elements to be given in this area. I would like to take advantage of this issue and link it to the latest incidents. We have just learned that in Doel 4, 30 workers are prohibited from entering the nuclear site. This is related to the other incident on Doel 4. I am surprised by this announcement because we have already had discussions with you at a previous committee meeting. On this part, nothing had been announced. Would you be kind enough to tell us exactly what happened to that incident and explain why things were not announced earlier in this regard? Thus, I am updating the question in the light of developments, since my question was tabled in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, the latest events in Tihange, where an electric transformer has suffered damage, are in several ways calling for concern. My question also dates from the beginning of December. A first question arises with regard to the maintenance of nuclear installations, not on the nuclear part of the plants but also and above all on the electrical part. Minister, can you inform us about the actual condition of the facilities in question? Should we expect further incidents of this type at a time when much of our nuclear fleet is stationary due to cracks or sabotage? Moreover, as far as sabotage is concerned, the development of drones is challenging, with the risk that some of them may damage electrical installations, momentarily or more sustainably putting our electricity supply at risk. RTL journalists tested the reactivity of the police forces during an overflight of the nuclear power plant by a drone and demonstrated that this overflight could be carried out without any difficulty. Minister, what detection system (interference protection in particular) do you intend to put in place to neutralize any attack on our electrical installations and thus guarantee our energy supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u63	Mr President, I fully understand that questions are becoming obsolete because of the time that has elapsed, without an immediate committee allowing Members to ask them. I have already answered the same question on several occasions, particularly on 2 December. We were very close to the incident. I even believe that when I answered, the plant had restarted. Everything was done over the time of a weekend. I think it was between 30 November, which was a Sunday, and 2 December, when things were restored and the lost capacity was recovered. The entire installation has therefore been reset to 100%. I would like to reply, especially since Jean-Jacques Flahaux had not yet had the opportunity to ask this type of question. My answer will therefore be comprehensive. The shutdown of the Tihange 3 unit following a technical problem, in a power transformer, was of short duration. The repair teams worked 24 hours a day to restart the unit as soon as possible. Electrical installations are maintained according to a strict maintenance program. This maintenance program includes an important preventive maintenance component, to avoid malfunctions, curative activities, and certain maintenance tasks are performed during an alarm or degradation of equipment. The maintenance programme for electrical installations is based on legal requirements, manufacturer's instructions and feedback from the nuclear operator as a result of malfunctions or experiences experienced by other operators around the world. Despite the well-developed maintenance programs, there is still the possibility that equipment will fail, which was the case on Sunday, November 30 with the power transformer. Especially in equipment such as transformers, a short circuit can always occur internally, which can give rise to major currents present in this place to an explosion or a fire. That was the case, it was a fire. These equipments are located in the non-nuclear part of the facility. A gas or coal plant with a high voltage station has similar equipment, I would remind you. Such incidents can, of course, occur in a gas or coal power plant. There have been similar incidents on other types of power transformers. In conclusion, it should be noted that Electrabel invests on average more than €200 million per year in operational maintenance and safety. Should we expect other incidents of this type at a time when much of our nuclear fleet is at a standstill for cracks and/or sabotage issues? You know Doel 4 has restarted. It is no longer a matter of stopping the plant. There is no reason to believe that there will be no such incident in the coming years, since it is technical incidents that normally occur on such facilities. Every effort is made to warn them through the active maintenance policy I have just mentioned. It should be remembered that over time Belgium has been able to rely on one of the most available nuclear plants in the world: 90% of the time since it exists, which shows that the 10% unavailability, which is not necessarily due to technical incidents or even to voluntary incidents, is therefore a very limited proportion. As far as drones are concerned, I will reply again even if I had also responded at the time of the incident, in particular for reasons of communication; a television station had flown over a drone around the Tihange power station to show that it existed. Incidents exist in France. You certainly know that Electrobel recently detected drones over one of the power stations. I would remind you that there are legal requirements for the overflight of nuclear power plants. The television station in question, via the private operator it had used to demonstrate the purpose of the ensuing debate, had complied with these requirements: to keep a distance of 600 metres and for such machines, which are very light, not to descend less than 100 metres above the highest peak of the site. We can see it very clearly in the images. It is in any case forbidden to fly over nuclear power stations. As I said in the previous committee, overflights exist since, according to the wind direction, one of the aircraft lines landing at Liège Airport sometimes passes over Tihange. Many questions had been asked in this regard by a former colleague, Senator Anne-Marie Lizin. It is clear that violating such a prohibition is an offence that can be prosecuted in court, with penalties and fines. Detection systems exist and are used. The evidence is the detection by Electrabel, a short time ago, of a drone near one of the power stations. In this case, the police are warned and can intervene. That's what was done. The nuisance capacity of drones is very limited, as they, except for military equipment, are generally too light to carry sufficiently significant loads. The tanks of the power plants are intended to withstand an airplane collision! They benefit from a solidity guaranteed by safety standards, further increased since stress tests and Fukushima. As far as Doel 4 is concerned, I saw the Belga like you, but that is not part of your question. I'm going to check it out, but it's probably related to the ongoing criminal investigation. This concerns not only the Minister of the Interior but also AFCN. I refer you to Minister Jan Jambon...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u64	You didn't know what action was taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u65	I don't have to know because I'm dealing with energy and not security! But just like you, I'm curious to know. If you give me a little time, I'll check it out. But a priori, this point was not included in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me to the extent that the question that I tabled was out of date and that the one that I asked you is, so to speak, anticipated. Indeed, the information has just fallen. However, this is a good question, since tomorrow I will be questioning the Minister of the Interior on this point. On that occasion, I could also question him about Doel 4 and about that specific measure. I will also ask him a question about drones that also relates to safety. Indeed, it is he who is competent in this matter. This will therefore complement today's debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u67	We will both benefit from his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u68	I'll be happy to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u69	With great pleasure. But, perhaps, it will be passed on to me before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u70	Who knows! Perhaps there are times when information is circulating within the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u71	I'm confident.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. There is indeed the part of the interference of drones that could carry weapons or bombs. In this respect, it is true that the Minister of the Interior is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u73	Mr President, without reinvigorating the debate, I would like to say that the interference of the waves to divert drones can also have an impact on the instruments present in the power station. In doing so, this technique is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u74	Mr President, may I ask you for a little break of three seconds? I'm not "twitte," Madam Minister. I'm answering my daughter. Minister, today we are talking more about the newspaper L'Echo than other days. As I was bored, I read about the old editions and, in L'Echo of August 30, 2014, the Director General of the Federal Agency declared "Doel 1 and 2's extension file has been frozen. It would take two or three years to prepare for this extension." This, therefore, goes beyond the question of when the fuel should be ordered and its delivery time. Electrabel is obviously not going to order until it has sufficient security or a down payment. As a result, the order will not be possible. But, I'm putting this part aside. This is the question of the two- or three-year time limit cited by the Director General of the Federal Agency. Minister, do you have any evidence to contradict Mr.Bens' comments of August 30, 2014, which lead to the possible extension of Doel 1 not being possible until 2017-2018 anyway? I will make the article available to you if you so wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u75	Mr President, we must think about how the questions are put together. This does not always happen in a consistent way. In any case, I have added a question concerning the extension of the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2 in addition to Mr Nollet's specific question. There are also questions about Objective 1 and Objective 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u76	I am the agenda established by the Minister's Office and the Secretariat. We see that in point 13 only the question on the timetable for the extension of Doel 1 and 2. I therefore propose that the minister answer that question. Perhaps there is a question about how the questions are joined or not. This is a more general debate; I propose that it not be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u77	Mr.President, the agenda indicates in point 1087.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u78	This morning, an updated numbering was brought to the agenda. This question will come later, more specifically under point 14. Rest assured, all questions will be asked!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general terms, as when I replied to you in plenary on the decision of the Doel 1 and 2 extension government, I had added technical elements that seemed interesting to me for understanding this decision before addressing the eight criteria on which it was based. Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 are all nearly the same age. Doel 1 is the oldest: it will reach 40 years of age on 15 February 2015. Tihange 1 will have this age in October 2015 while Doel 2 in December 2015. I explained that, in the previous government, a debate had begun for the extension of these three plants. Finally, decisions had been taken to extend only Tihange 1, leaving Doel 1 and 2 aside. With a view to an extension of these three nearly 40-year-old plants, Electrabel, in interaction with AFCN, as is still the case, had initiated a plan to review and invest in youth; this plan had stopped for Doel 1 and 2 by mid-2012, but it had continued for Tihange 1 until the end of the process in order to ensure its extension. That is why we are in a reversal of process: the government plans to extend, and then the investments of youth are started. In fact, this decision in principle of the government follows, at the time, a negotiation by the Secretary of State with Electrabel concerning the extension of Tihange 1: it is decided to continue the interaction with AFCN for its rejuvenation and the abandonment of Doel 1 and 2. This means that we resume where we had stopped, with an interaction that had begun in 2009 for the rejuvenation of these plants. So they know what to do! They're re-studying the thing. Do I know more yet? Does the statement made on August 30, 2014 by an AFCN official...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u80	This is the Director General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u81	That's right, Mr. Bens. Do I have any evidence to contradict this deadline? For more details and given the presence of the AFCN in the discussion, it would be helpful if you would also ask Mr. Jan Jambon the question. My way of reacting to such a question is obviously curiosity, it is to know exactly what is happening, knowing that I also do not want to influence or intervene in the debate in any way. It must therefore remain purely technical with information that one can know because I want to let AFCN work independently and technically within the framework of the interaction work that it resumes today with Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u82	That makes sense to me, but I was asking you about the schedule. The press article I'm referring to is being photocopied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u83	I can answer you just what I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u84	These are not confidential items!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u85	Doel 2 will be available next winter; Doel 1, I am afraid not, without having the capacity to overturn or confirm the three-year deadline as it is taken up in the press by Mr Bens. The AFCN is under the tutelage – in quotation marks because this Agency is not really under tutelage –, rather is part of the powers of the Minister of the Interior; that is why I invite you to question him. If you want to re-examine me, I will anyway ask those technical questions to whom I am entitled and I will see what answers will be provided to me. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u86	Mr Nollet, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u87	If we do the calculation for Doel 1, it's two or three years. So this means not for the next winter, and necessarily not for the next winter either. This further removes the prospect of being useful in relation to the identified risk. Mr. Bens is talking about two or three years. I understand that you have questioned your administration, not the AFCN, and that you have no information to contradict this two- or three-year period. It's not nothing like information!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u88	There will probably be a broader debate in which we will have the opportunity to discuss the technical elements that will be provided to me as we move forward. What I believe is that Doel 1 will not be functional for next winter, but for the next. Instead of three years, Mr. Nollet, it'll be two. Indeed, the problem of fuel arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u89	That I said in my question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u90	I do not contradict you on this point. It is not a question of solution or problem. I'm answering the question. It is clear that youth investments are already planned on Doel 1. As soon as Doel 1 has completed its cycle, due to a lack of fuel, in February, rejuvenation work is already planned. As long as this work is being done and the fuel is being ordered, I think it will already be able to function within a shorter period of time than that mentioned by Mr Bens. I'm not Mr. Bens. I didn't read that article. Mr. Bens works in a highly venerable and independent federal agency. The office or functional proximity in terms of executive vis-à-vis the government is the Minister of the Interior. So do it! But I'm gonna send a mail to AFCN and I'm still doing it via Jan Jambon. It was through the latter that I asked AFCN about all the nuclear power plants. I'm waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u91	Through the questions I ask her, the minister can ask her colleagues questions. She's waiting for the answers. I'm also waiting for the answer...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u92	I am trying to answer you, Mr. Nollet, but I am telling you that you are also asking Mr. Jan Jambon your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u93	Mr President, this one, I did not put it down, but I will put it down!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u94	We're gonna stay there. We are working here as part of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u95	Mr. President, we're looking for ourselves too! As soon as I have a question about the Federal Agency, I will no longer ask it here, even if it concerns energy and not safety. I'll put it down to Mr. Jambon. I get it! It's paradoxical, to say the least. That deprives you of powers, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u96	Mr President, thank you for taking my question back. I apologise, I was just present on the Finance Committee. My best wishes to all my fellow Members and the Minister, to a successful and constructive year in this committee. Madam Minister, my question concerns a fund to be set up for leaking fuel oil tanks and the soil contamination that could be associated with them. The government agreement states that the federal government, in cooperation with the Regions, will set up a fund to tackle soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. That is what my question is about, specifically because I was also contacted by some people with such leaking underground fuel tank. Madam Minister, what is your view and intention on these provisions in the government agreement and the agreement to set up that fund? What's the status? Have you discussed this with the Regions? When will such a fund be set up and what will be its framework? What would be the purpose of the fund? What exactly will the fund do and what exactly will it do? What damages would that fund cover or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u97	Mr President, Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. In fact, the federal government agreement contains the government's commitment to set up a fund within this legislature, in cooperation with the Regions, to tackle soil pollution caused by liquid fuels for heating purposes. This dossier began with the meeting of the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment, which took place on November 12, 2014. At this meeting, the Federal and the Regions agreed on the following action plan, which includes 4 points. First point: the Flemish Region will once again start the working group in place to evaluate the current draft text of the cooperation agreement. Secondly, there will be consultation with the oil sector. The third point is that, in the light of the above assessment and the consultation, necessary adjustments will be made, if necessary. Finally, last point: the commitment was that the cooperation agreement would be approved in the course of 2015 by regional governments and the federal government in order to be able to quickly establish the fund to clean up soil polluted by liquid heating fuels. First of all, I expect this working group to be able to carry out its tasks. Thereafter, when I have the result of this work, I will be able to answer your questions specifically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u98	Mr President, Minister, your reply shows that the dossier has begun. However, it also appears that a lot of further steps will have to be taken. I would therefore ask you to continue to monitor the speed of the process with the necessary rigour so that progress and results can be achieved with the Fund within a reasonable time and the project does not get bogged down in back and forth talk between the federal government and the regions. In any case, I will also ask, through fellow Members at the Flemish level, whether they can carry out the necessary checks and take action in this area. I hope that we will soon be able to reach an agreement to set up the fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u99	Question No 1087 by Mr Kristof Calvo, initially attached to the previous questions, was finally attached to them. Following your comment, I recognise that in terms of content, attention should be paid to joining the questions in the most coherent way possible. I'll pay attention to it in the future. Nevertheless, the agenda is set in this way. It is true that the subject of "de levensduurverlenging van Doel 1 en 2" is more relevant to the previous point. I give the floor to Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u100	Mr. Chair, Minister, you gave an important interview on December 19. You would declare there – and this is not a journalist's title but your own statements – that you "understand that Electrabel wanted to be more transparent and more open" – which makes us happy, Kristof Calvo and I – "and to adopt a different attitude towards the market and the authorities than that which was his in the past." All right: this recognizes both that the past has not been ideal in terms of transparency and openness, but that now it will change. "Having seen the long history that Electrabel has with Belgium, he understood that he must change," you say. Bravo! Frankly, nice result in a few days. What are, Madam Minister, the facts, the specifics, the commitments that made it possible for you to affirm this belief? I am updating my question, as always, since Mr. Mestrallet spoke at 1:26 p.m. You have seen this as well, and you will also be able to update your response. Maybe it was related to the answer you gave. He said it would be transparent and more open, as the minister said it would be, and that they would only extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 if it was profitable. If this is not a signal that he sends you to send you the amount of the invoice, you will have to interpret transparency and openness differently. Madam Minister, what is the interpretation for you to give to Mr Mestrallet's new statement, when nothing was specifically asked of him in this matter to make Doel 1 and Doel 2 profitable? I turn to my second question, which concerns the investment of third parties. This has nothing to do with the previous one, but they have been joined. You have announced that following the agreement reached in your government, the investment in Doel 1 and Doel 2 will be open to third parties. Minister, in concrete terms, what are your objectives in this area and how will you translate that will into legislation? I hope you won't tell me you still have to go to your government colleagues. I am talking well about your objectives, not about a collegial decision, and how you translate that will into legislation. I follow with my third question. You also announced that following the government agreement, you will now negotiate a "global package": investments necessary for extension, contribution, investments in unprofitable plants, etc. Given that the possible amendment of the nuclear-exit law is linked to the end of this negotiation, what is your objective in terms of the timetable for these negotiations? What are the specific topics you will put on the table? Unless I was mistaken, the interview included suspension points. What are the subjects, what is the timetable for negotiations, if any, with Mr Mestrallet in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u101	Madam Secretary, my question is in the same spirit. I too have a number of questions, now that the decision has been taken to extend the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. This extension is the starting point for the negotiations with GDF Suez and Electrabel. It is not an immediate opportunity and a strong negotiating position. After all, you have decided to extend the life of these plants by ten years in any case and have declared that it is now up to the other negotiating party to pay a price for this. That is actually almost on its knees and begging for the lifetime extension of two old nuclear reactors. It is logical for Parliament to ask questions about the issue. I am actually surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is the only group that is asking questions about these negotiations today. The file is particularly topical. Mr Mestrallet has also made statements on it today. He states that they will only carry out the extension if the cash register rings and the extension is sufficiently profitable. Where are you today? Is this perhaps the case with the creation of a new convention, as happened for Tihange 1? Have there been any negotiations? How will they go? Will the level of nuclear interest be the subject of negotiations? Electrabel has indicated that it is calling for a renegotiation of nuclear interest rates. On the other hand, do you agree or do you believe that nuclear interest should remain out of the negotiations because it has nothing to do with Objective 1 and Objective 2? I have a number of questions which are at the crossroads of your powers and those of Mr Jambon. Do you have an idea of the cost of the innovation investment? Was the FANC consulted by the government before the decision was taken? Is there a formal opinion from the FANC? If so, can we have the opinion? Do you or do you not have a list of the necessary investments? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u102	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I will answer your related questions in general. I have just received the mandate to negotiate the extension of Doel 1 and 2 with the operator who owns and operates it, Electrabel. You know that a negotiation has every chance of succeeding when it remains discreet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u104	There are no figures in the Belga, Mr. Calvo. You see things where there's none. I'll answer Mr. Nollet first. Negotiations have barely begun and must therefore continue. The negotiations will be comprehensive. All topics will be put on the table in a transparent manner, such as the investments needed for this extension. The nuclear contribution and its method of calculation will be assessed in the coming weeks in conjunction with BNB and CREG, which will keep me regularly informed of the progress of their joint work. All of this will take some time and will be the subject of an agreement that I will present to the government in due course. The agreement of the AFCN, which sets out the conditions for safety and security, is obviously essential before the extension of these units is effective. I will reply specifically to Mr Calvo at a later stage, but first of all I want to say that from the moment you get into a negotiation where you have all the elements on the table, elements concerning the company, its turnover, investment, but also having public repercussions in relation to security of supply and financial repercussions in relation to a nuclear rent, it is obvious that this is not being negotiated on the corner of a table in one click of a finger. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot inform you today of a result, which, if it exists – and it will exist – will not be disclosed with regard to the elements that structure the convention since they intervene between two parties, namely the Belgian executive and Electrabel, to which no one else is associated. As far as your question is concerned, I make a link to another element that was a request for the production of the convention that concerned the extension of Tihange 1. I know that this is the subject of a later question, but everything is connected. My predecessor didn't tell you. He is a member of this Parliament. He could still communicate this convention. Why don't you think he's doing it? Because of course – and I do not intend to communicate to you the convention that will come out of the negotiation that we are going to have – these are elements exchanged, confidential in connection with a third party actor that do not concern the public operation. But despite the political decision taken by the government to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2, negotiations on this matter have been under way. It proved to be balanced and resulted in a convention. If the AFCN now stated that there is no question of actually extending Doel 1 and Doel 2, its opinion would be followed as committed by the government. Mr Calvo, I want to reassure you. You haven't seen all the aspects of my personality yet. Know that I never kneel! The term "transparency" was used in front of me. I heard it. So this is not a perception on my part. In my view, Belga's information, the subject of which refers to generalities advanced by one of the two parties, which I personally find relatively banal. It is true that a company is prepared to conclude an agreement as long as it is within a stable legal and economic framework, but also that it is profitable for it. That is something I could also have said. Indeed, I own a small business and, when I enter into agreements, it is in his interest. But the other side must also find its interest in it. It's always about finding a win-win with the aim of making my business profitable. Mr Calvo, rest assured, the Belgian State is also seeking a balance, a negotiation that leads to a favourable agreement. Both Electrabel's and the government's concerns will be taken into account in this negotiation. For me, and I stress it, it remains fundamental that the AFCN pronounce itself independently. On the subject, the extension of Doel 1 and 2, it will give its opinion and it will do so once it has decided on the most appropriate time. With regard to the investments required not only for the rejuvenation of the facilities, but also for the security requirements according to the Agency, on the basis of the file in interaction by Electrabel, I do not have any specific amount to indicate to you today. Of course, as you have experienced in previous cases, we are talking about several hundred million euros. The timetable for negotiations has not yet been set. As a result of the practice of negotiations, each of the two parties must list all of its requests. I therefore await the sending of Electrabel and list the requests which I consider useful for the Belgian State. I do not think that it is appropriate to draw further lessons from Mr Mestrallet's message in today's Belga that a firm that wants to ensure its viability acts so that the investments it makes are of a certain profitability. It's normal: Electrabel is not a charity as some would like, but an economic enterprise. Nevertheless, it is linked to Belgium historically, economically and politically. In this context, the Belgian State ensures that the grain is balanced and that it is also able to obtain from it the reasons for satisfaction well understood in the negotiations under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u105	Mr President, this is the first meeting of the year. Normally, everything is going well, but here, we still reach peaks! When I ask the minister for the specifics, the facts that allow her to say that Electrabel will be more transparent and more open, I don't get any! Worse, when we are talking about transparency and openness, access to information, the minister already tells us that everything will remain completely hidden, she says. And to argue that this agreement must be between the stakeholders and that it must remain confidential. On the one hand, there is one company and on the other, the government. On the one hand, there is a company, of course, and its profits, of course, and its shareholders, of course, and its own interests, of course. And Mr Mestrallet's transparency is to say, "I'll give you the number." So it's normal that you don't have it, since he's the one who's going to stare at it! And he will impose it on you as such. On your knees or not on your knees, it doesn't matter! He'll set the number. But in terms of transparency, tell us today that there are two actors, the government on the one hand and the company on the other, is completely denying that this figure that Electrabel will set, it is in fact an invoice that he will send to the citizens. And the minimum transparency, no longer that of Electrabel vis-à-vis you, but the transparency that you must show as a minister, is obviously to explain in a transparent way to the citizens the content of the agreement that you are going to sign, since it is they who are going to pay for it. It is the citizens who are involved in this agreement. It's not you as a government or as an entity. It is a matter of minimum transparency in a democratic system. I'm angry! I ask the minister to reconsider her comment on the fact that she will inform the citizens, through Parliament, of the content of the agreements and the negotiations, as has always been done in the past. I can provide you with a copy of these texts. If you don't have them in your archives, the photocopier works. You have not followed the work of the Committee on Energy much, which does not mean that you have not followed the energy issues in the past, but I can tell you that these are fundamental elements. Today, as you announce that Electrabel will be more transparent and more open, I ask you to be more transparent and open to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u106	My reply consists of three points. Firstly, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency has still not approved the extension of the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. You confirm that today. You present Objective 1 and Objective 2 as solutions for short-term security of supply. They are not; they have just been discussed, and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency has still not given the green light. Secondly, I explicitly asked you whether the nuclear interest rate is within or outside the perimeter of the negotiations. You said today that nuclear interest rates are negotiable in the context of the Objective 1 and Objective 2 negotiations. So you're trying to negotiate. Thirdly, you say you want to reschedule this through a convention. So old school energy policy. After two Paces Electricae and the convention on Tihange 1, this new convention is Pax Electrica IV. This is an old energy policy: not through laws, not in a transparent way, but in a closed manner, through contracts and conventions. You are continuing the Belgian house style on energy policy. I regret that. You're going even further. You say with a straight face: Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet, you know that these will be agreements between me and the operator, and you will know nothing about them. I am particularly indignant about that. You are going even further, because the Convention on Tihange 1 could be viewed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u107	There are limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u108	Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u109	We share a political conviction, Mrs Marghem. We, the ecologists, are outraged at the fact that you are announcing the conclusion of a convention that Parliament will not have at its disposal. You say that you will not be transparent about the agreements on Objective 1 and Objective 2. You say that with a smile, like it's the most normal thing in the world. The opposite should be the most normal thing in the world: that you are transparent about the agreements you make and that you give at least the representatives of the people the opportunity to carry out their control tasks. For the convention on Tihange 1 that was still the case. You say today that you will do so in complete secrecy, without transparency on Objective 1 and Objective 2. We will use all the resources we can to look at these agreements. People have a right to clarity. If you want to take the foolish decision to extend the life of three 1975 nuclear reactors by ten years, people can at least know at what price. That should not be the price that Mr Mestrallet sets, but that price should in principle be determined by the government, Parliament and society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the possible extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 should be decided after deciding on the possible judgment of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. It is in any case the reading that was made of it by a partner of the majority. I'll keep the extract at your disposal. I stop running the photocopier because you know him as well as I do. In view of the fact that a decision was taken at the level of the government on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, what was the government's decision at the level of Doel 3 and Tihange 2? Should it be understood that this anteriority does not play at the level of the government's schedule of work but perhaps at the level of the Parliament's schedule of work? That's a lead I'm opening for you. It's up to you to tell us if it's correct or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u111	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the government has decided on a first package of measures to ensure our security of electricity supply. As I have already told you on many occasions, we have indeed found that there are great uncertainties related to the restarting of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 units and we have therefore decided to extend immediately, for security of supply reasons, Doel 1 and 2 units for a period of ten years, without the duration of operation of these reactors being longer than 2025. The AFCN will set the conditions for the safety and security of this extension. It will be the satisfaction or not that will be the gateway or not of the policy desired by the government. This agreement will be an indispensable prerequisite before the extension of these units is effective. The government has not taken a decision on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 and could not, of course, do so, since the authorization of a possible restart comes first to AFCN, which will decide in due course on the basis of the file transmitted by Electrabel, which is still in interaction with the Agency. Moreover, in the context of further analyses which are requested, this continues. The government expects the Agency to take the necessary time to continue to ensure the safe operation of our nuclear power plants. Only the AFCN can decide on this issue, the interests at stake being particularly important for the safety of our population and neighbouring populations, for the supply of electricity in our country and for the operator of these two reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, if I can agree with you on these two elements of your answer concerning the importance of the matter, if I can take note that you have not taken a decision on Doel 3 and Tihange 2, I do not know what is the connection with the subsequent steps. Has the government considered a link to create only one decision, at least a single time of decision on the whole issue? I have no answer to that. For the rest, you just remind us of the facts. Do you have any additional information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u113	Mr Nollet, I do not understand your question. I read: "Do we have to understand that this anteriority does not play at the level of the government's work schedule but at the level of the parliamentary work schedule?"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u114	I'll explain it differently. The government made a decision in principle; not a first reading of a legal text on Doel 1 and 2. He mandated you, according to your term, to negotiate with Electrabel. We know that other steps need to be taken; since this is a legislative amendment, we will go through a first reading, a request for advice from the Council of State, the AFCN, a second reading, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u115	No, you can decide a law without the Federal Agency intervening immediately. If it comes after, you won't be able to follow these steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u116	That is what I am saying: several steps must be taken, including that of the Federal Agency, including that of the first reading law, the Council of State, second reading, and then parliament. My question is: "Have you decided at the level of the government to link the Tihange 2 file, not at the time of the decision in principle – I understand that no decision has been taken on Doel 3 – but at a later stage, whether it be that of the Federal Agency, the second reading, the opinion of the Council of State or the parliament?"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u117	Both are absolutely unrelated and neither in the government agreement in reality. These are sentences that are joined to each other and that you can organize in several different ways. We know that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are still under investigation at AFCN. They're kind of out of the game, without knowing when they'll be back in the game or not. At that point, we'll see. We're here for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u118	I understand! This means that, potentially, if green lights are granted, one could very well end up with the four reactors that operate: Doel 3, Tihange 2, Doel 1, Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u119	It's not impossible. Intellectually, we can consider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u120	No, not intellectually! In practical terms, in relation to the decisions you have taken at the political level!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u121	But the decision that was made was made in a context of security of supply, in particular because Doel 3, Tihange 2, and at the time Doel 4, had not yet returned to the circuit. What would happen if Doel 3 and Tihange 2, on the positive advice of AFCN, returned to the circuit? I don't know! It is theoretically possible to envisage an additional capacity, but would the decision be taken to shut down other power stations, when significant investments have been made? You know the answer. It is an issue that remains open and forward-looking. We'll see!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u122	I'm not sure I understand, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u123	And I don't understand exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u124	I'll give you a very simple example. Let's imagine you have two green lights from the Federal Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u125	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u126	On the one hand, for Doel 1 and Doel 2 and, on the other hand, for Tihange 2 and Doel 3. Two green lights, four power plants involved. What are you doing? Does, potentially,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u127	I cannot answer you because I am far from sure that I will have green lights, as you say, for Doel 3 and Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u128	I understand that, but I submit this hypothesis to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u129	Well, theoretically, in this hypothesis, I'm reacting. It is possible that this will happen. This is a purely intellectual reasoning, as I did for the nuclear release, earlier, on the basis of the article you read with me. At that time, the government will have to position itself. But...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u130	Even if you only have green lights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u131	If you have two nuclear power plants coming back into the circuit, when it was not planned to stop them, you have to see in the law that concerns us when Doel 3 and Tihange 2 – I don't have that element in mind – were programmed to stop. I don't remember that element. You may know that. So, at that time, the government will position itself against the law that provides for the judgment in 2025. But this is not a brutal shutdown of all the power plants in 2025. In my memory, it starts in 2022. I'd like to check that out. There is a period of three years, from 2022 to 2025, where all the plants should be stopped and dismantled in that country, according to the law. If Doel 3 and Tihange 2 return before that in the circuit, they are not programmed by this law to be stopped. And so, the ability comes back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u132	So you're not going to go over to the government with the extension of Doel 3 and Tihange 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u133	It's not an extension, it's a re-start after a stop. I have already said that these concepts are used in the unavailability which is calculated for the allocation contribution. You have a stop that is requested by the AFCN and somehow a reopening that is allowed by the AFCN. In the case of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, you obviously have an analysis of the micro-cracks that make this time between the prohibition to pursue AFCN and possibly later, in your theoretical example, the possibility to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u134	That's clearer. If I understand correctly, if the Federal Agency gives a green light on Doel 3 and Tihange 2 before parliament has passed the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension law, everything is in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u135	No! This has nothing to do with it. I am convinced that the law on Doel 1 and 2 will come sooner than the possible authorization regarding Doel 3 and Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u136	May I interrupt this conversation? Where's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u137	Mr President, the conclusion is that there is an inconsistency with what has been said not by the minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u138	There is no inconsistency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u139	There is an inconsistency between what you said and what the CD&V said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u140	No. You'll tell the CD&V. I am not a CD&V minister, but the CD&V, at least one of its members, has read the government agreement. It should be noted that the members of the CD&V government have validated my proposal, as I have presented it, which does not make a prior link to Doel 3 and Tihange 2. You'll explain yourself to our colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u141	Colleagues, I would like to speak to the way in which the work is organised here. I can understand that there is some clarification at the beginning of a reply. This gives rise to a game of table tennis where you turn 5 to 6 times the ball. I considered that the incident was not closed, in the absence of a good understanding of the question and the answers. We remain in the context of the oral questions which, in principle, provide for a question, an answer and a reply. We can get out of this theoretical scheme in case of precision, sub-question, oblivion. In short, the exchange can be continued in the third half after the commission, but it also does not become a dialogue between two or three people if questions are joined. I should like to state this in connection with the order of business, because we are moving away from the way in which oral questions are organised by our Rules of Procedure. I'm pointing it out, because we're overburdening the way we do things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u142	Obviously, we have overflowed! Still is it that I could reply now!...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u143	Mr Nollet, I have allowed you to act on this question, but I would ask you to observe the procedure for the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u144	Admit that it was at the end of the day that the necessary clarification was obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u145	I still had to understand your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u146	That's why I let your exchanges continue. In conclusion, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u147	The political conclusion of this debate is that, indeed, with the answers given, one could very well end up – I already see the pattern as Electrabel specifies – with a reopening of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and then a reopening of Tihange 2 and Doel 3 and nothing is controlled. That is contrary to what has been declared in committee. That is why I wanted to highlight the risk that the four reactors will restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u148	You have to tell AFCN!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u149	With regard to the organization of work, we had an open debate on the guidance note, the budget and the policy note. In this case, there is no speaking time limit. We return to the agenda of the oral questions set out in our Rules of Procedure, which we have just taken out of the usual pattern. But we're not going to spend the night either. For the following questions, I will ensure that the questions are brief, followed by an answer and a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the Committee on Energy on 18 November 2014 – this is a date – I asked you about the CREG's proposals on the evolution of regulatory mechanisms in the gas and electricity markets. In particular, the adoption of the third energy package, in particular the various network codes established at European level, which aims to unify the European energy market, was discussed. What about the report you have commissioned from your administration on this issue? Could you give us the details? Furthermore, the regulator referred in his last report to the possibility that certain tasks currently entrusted to system operators, such as the question of cooperation between transmission system operators, might be transferred to its field of competence. It would be a matter of bringing us into line with European legislation. What exactly is the situation? Could you give us an overview of the current collaborations between our network operators and those of other Member States of the European Union? Thank you for the clarification you can give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u151	Mr President, like Mr Nollet, I will not depart from a single word of my written reply. I understand your concern and thank you for reminding us of the Rules of Procedure. Given the rather busy energy news at the end of the year – who will doubt it? – the question of the redistribution of competences between system operators and CREG on, inter alia, the question of cooperation between transport managers has not yet been studied in depth. Contacts will be made shortly with the regulator to adapt this legislation, particularly with regard to network codes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u152	Minister, are you sure you've read everything?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u153	Mr. Nollet, you got the answer. What is your reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u154	Mr President, I have the impression that we will not get away with your proposal; it does not work. The answer is: shortly, therefore, without any specific delay. In November 2014, I accepted it as it was the beginning. Today, in January, no. I shall therefore repeat my question for the next committee in order to obtain an answer on this subject. When a question is asked, after a certain time, it must get an answer in order to see clearly in the timetable. I do not want to relaunch the debate, but I say it as a reply and as a justification for repeating my question. I hope that this time we will receive a substantive answer. For the next few times, rather than using a term as incessantly, tell us a more precise schedule. This will make things easier for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u155	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the Energy Committee on 18 November 2014, you stated that you had instructed your administration to analyse the consequences of the proposal made by CREG to designate Belpex as the sole manager of trading markets. Minister, what about it? What lessons do you learn from this analysis? You also stated that a possible monopoly of Belpex would be contrary to European legislation. What steps has the government taken to meet European requirements while integrating the regulator's recommendations? Don't tell me "incessantly", that the administration, overwhelmed, didn't have time to do that either. I would accept this answer for some elements, but it should not be said that your entire administration was devoted exclusively to a question (Doel 1 and Doel 2). Otherwise, we will say that everything revolves around nuclear energy and you will criticize us if we say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u156	Mr. Nollet, don't despair. Two lines. I'm warning you right now, don't despair. You already know the answer because you know it well. I repeat what I said earlier. I'm sure you've had a lot of trouble on Christmas holidays. It's January 6. My administration has not yet been able to go into depth and it gives me the draft answer: "This question which I answered last month has not yet been analysed in view of the mass of other priority issues in the field of energy." I'll remind you there's the gas tender. For the previous question, to reassure you: we are in the middle of it. We're working on it. But so far, there is no provision in the House's rules that requires a minister to communicate his or her agenda. I'm not wasting time and I'm working on the pace I've adopted in the last two months of last year, just as intensely, but it doesn't work out in two spoon-to-pot strokes. This aspect of things will also be dealt with in some time, so that the word "incessantly" will not be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u157	Mr President, in addition to the fact that I am not satisfied with this answer – you will be aware of it – and that I will repose it, I come to the question of the fact that the minister has asked for an exception with regard to measures to reduce staff and savings in the energy administration sector. Indeed, given the number of my questions that could not be answered because the administration is overburdened, I can only question myself. I assume that there will not be a rationalization of – 4% in staff, – 20% in operations and – 30% in investments! If this is not the case, there is a risk of a committee agenda going beyond it. You don't know me yet! You can see that I'm insightful...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u158	It's rather obstinate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u159	I'll come back to the burden with my questions until they get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u160	Thank you. I know what you mean. I can imagine it very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u161	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Committee on Energy of 18 November 1999 dealt with the objectives pursued by the legislator, through the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999, in order to avoid a chaotic situation in terms of market prices. The said Act provides for an obligation to notify temporary or permanent shutdowns of power generation units. The regulator notes that producers who have doubts about restarting their units announce closures and reserve the right to waive them at any time. In order to avoid this pitfall, you stated in your reply that a reflection on a system of support for existing capacities was under way in order to limit the number of unit closures and to ensure the country's supply capacity. Minister, could you give me more information on the status of this reflection? What additional requirements have been put forward in order to avoid the situation I am addressing in this matter? I thank you for the clarifications you will not miss – knowing you – to bring me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us live with hope! My answer is a little more fleshy. As announced last month, I commissioned the Directorate-General for Energy to prepare a study on the various options for supporting existing production capacities, including through capacity mechanisms or capacity markets. Other neighbouring countries such as France and the United Kingdom have recently taken initiatives in this area. That is why I have asked contacts I have in these countries to communicate to me the way in which they have imagined and resolved these situations. At the level of the European Commission, there is also a reflection. The stakes of such market changes and the risk of distortions of competition at both national and European level are obviously very important and very complex. Contacts have already taken place with different market players. A study will also be undertaken by an external consultant to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the various options available in this area. An impact assessment will also have to be carried out, which – you will understand – takes some time. This will therefore not happen overnight, neither at the level of the preparation of the legislation nor at the level of implementation. This is a very important issue to me for the future design of the electricity market. This issue will be addressed in discussions aimed at the conclusion of a future energy pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u163	Mr Nollet, this is the fleshy answer given to us by the government. What's your line?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u164	Mr President, the minister said "more fleshy"!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u165	Indeed, but it is not yet enough to your liking! You like roundness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u166	Mr. Chair, the minister will soon make the reply for me! Madam Minister, in order to avoid overburdening the agenda of the next committee, could you give me an idea of the deadlines? When you say "a certain time", does that mean a day, a month, a month and a half, two months? Could you clarify that so that I know when to re-ask my question? Otherwise, I'll drop it off at the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u167	Mr Nollet, you are reinvigorating a new question. Thus, we avoid overloading the agenda and win a question at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u168	I see no problem in encouraging Mr Nollet informally to ask questions at the right time. That's one way to say yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u169	I saw your collaborator's reaction. So I'll give you a month and a half and I won't ask that question again next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u170	Mr President, Madam Minister, you recently called for the establishment of an inter-federal energy pact preceded by an energy vision to enable the socio-economic and environmental transformations that are needed over a period of at least 20 to 25 years. Minister, what is the situation in practice? What will be the methodology underlying the implementation of this objective? Could you give me the schedule of work on this subject? I would also like to know a little more about the precise role that CREG, as a federal regulator and responsible for the proper functioning of the market, will have to play in the development and implementation of this pact. You said that the Directorate-General for Energy had sent you concrete proposals in this area: could you give me the precise details?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u171	Dear colleague, my answer will probably not satisfy you and will leave you with too little taste, like all the answers I have to give to your questions. As a connoisseur of the sector, you like to start your appetite. Mr President, I will make sure that I have very regular contacts with Mr Nollet to encourage him to ask his questions at the appropriate times. Answer to his question: the idea of concluding an energy pact involving all players in the energy markets, both at federal and regional level, has been reiterated on various occasions since the very formation of the present government. This pact was announced and confirmed on 18 November last, during the first explanation session of the policy note. Preparatory work has not yet begun. It is therefore premature to communicate in more detail what has not yet begun, in particular how these discussions will be organised and in what forms. Nevertheless, I assure you: I have already talked about this at length with the CREG; it will play an important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u172	Mr President, I am going to try the same thing as before: for the timetable, it will be in a month, a month and a half?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u173	Add another month and sequence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u174	So I'll ask the same question in two months. You did not respond to the proposals. You have said that you have already received proposals from the administration on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u175	No, I didn't say that. I said that the preparatory work has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u176	So I didn't get it. You haven't received anything from the Directorate yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u177	No, I have spoken informally about this subject at length with CREG, which will play an important role, but I have not yet received any concrete elements which begin the preparatory work. We have not yet decided on how to organize the preparatory work and the form it should take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u178	So I'll be back in two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u179	Mr. Chair, Minister, in her last report, CREG has made several proposals to adapt the Electricity Act to clarify certain aspects and consequences of the strategic reserve. I understand that you have appointed a working group, composed of Elia, CREG and DG Energy, to take these proposals into account. What about the new technical and economic parameters for the availability of units likely to participate in the strategic reserve? You had also instructed the working group to clarify the possibility and obligation to participate in strategic reserves, but also to clarify under what conditions the units in the reserve may once again function on the market. Can you share with me the conclusions of the working group on this issue and the actions that the government has taken or intends to take? In addition, participation in the reserve of production units not connected to the transport network is envisaged. What about it? What lessons do you learn from the work of the working group in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u180	Mr President, Mr Nollet, indeed, a working group composed of experts from CREG, Elia and the Energy DG of the SPF Economy was tasked with analysing alternative paths to remedy the lack of electricity production in the Belgian fleet. It should be noted that the work of the group is carried out in parallel with the work of the working group responsible for the development of demand-restriction measures or, in any case, measures that can be taken on demand. The problems encountered with the availability of units that could participate in the strategic reserve are of various kinds. Some units have environmental problems. It will be pointed out that most of these cannot be resolved only by the federal authority. Many units require more or less investment in order to participate in the strategic reserve. For the winter of 2015-16, the working group proposes the following points. 1. The creation of a Security Task Force of Supply given the break-up of skills in this area. An agreement between the various federal and regional ministers could be considered and concerns a commitment by everyone to treat production project applications as a matter of priority so as to minimize the time frame for obtaining the various permits required. 2. A PSO (public service obligation) for producers provided that the units covered by the PSO can be technically and economically returned to service on time. 3. An extension of the strategic reserve. Clarification could be given to the existing legal framework in order to enable small production units, such as generators, mobile and other installations, to meet advanced needs or even production units permanently shut down by their operators. Some units that are considering withdrawing are not directly connected to the electricity transmission system. These units, which represent a total volume of 509 MW and for which a notification has been made, can be considered for the 2015-2016 strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u181	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u182	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Belgian authorities informed the European Commission on 18 March 2014 that they were examining with CREG the status of the Interconnector, in order to see to what extent a possible amendment of the law should be made. In its latest report, CREG therefore proposed an urgent adaptation of gas legislation to allow Interconnector to participate in the auctions in March 2016, with a view to the expiry of these long-term contracts by 1 October 2018. What about the preparation of the required legislative adaptations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u183	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the British and Belgian regulators and the interested parties agreed on the status of the Interconnector. The adaptation of the relevant legislation will be carried out at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u184	Mr President, I congratulate the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic044x.u185	Questions Nos 1079 and 1086 of Mr Calvo are transformed into written questions. Question No 1072 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau is postponed at her request. The same applies to question No 1084 by Mrs Dierick.
