ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u1	Minister, at the initiative of Secretary of State Francken, the Gaudi campaign took place at the end of December 2014 for seven weeks. It was very successful. As many as 542 criminals who stayed illegally in the country were caught. Eight Belgian cities, namely Antwerp, Ghent, Leuven, Liège, Charleroi, Molenbeek, the city of Brussels and Eigenbrakel, participated in the action Gaudi, which focused on fast and shoplifting. During the action Gaudi 542 illegals were arrested, of which 287 were intercepted for thefts. 255 persons were arrested for other facts of public order. Two weeks after the action 70 offenders were repatriated to their country of origin and they were banned from entering. The repatriation of 61 other illegal immigrants is in full preparation. They are currently staying in a closed asylum centre. Another 18 other people were transferred to prison. In addition, 38 persons were arraigned. A pre-identification procedure was initiated for 157 persons. In addition to the police and the Foreign Affairs Department, Justice also plays a role in the project. The aim of the project was to optimise the cooperation between the police, the Foreign Office and the police. Both the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the Minister for the Interior evaluated the project positively, so that a follow-up could be made later this year in other cities and municipalities. Mr Minister of Justice, how do you evaluate the cooperation between the police, the Foreign Office and the police in connection with the Gaudi project? How do you assess that project in the area of justice with regard to further prosecution and punishment? What is the status of the 38 persons brought before the investigating judge? Were you effectively prosecuted? How many cases were dropped?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u2	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I naturally welcome good cooperation between the police and the police and in this case with the Foreign Office. I put your question to the College of Attorney General. I was told that the college's statistical database makes no distinction between cases taking place under the Gaudi action and other cases of shoplifting in the districts concerned. It is therefore not possible to identify the issues covered by the Gaudi project within the requested time frame and to provide the requested information. The questioning of the parquets of Antwerp, East Flanders, Liège, Charleroi, Brussels and Leuven, in order to identify these files and inform them of their state of affairs, would require a considerable effort. However, if you wish to have detailed information on this matter, it may be useful to ask it in writing so that I can provide you with the information requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you're making a positive assessment of the cooperation. It is a pity, however, that the individual project cannot be assessed separately. One can carry out projects, but one can only know if it is a good project if one can also evaluate the results. I will still put the questions in writing in order to obtain more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 2513 and 2514 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u5	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of this term of office you have shown yourself to be a very ambitious minister who did not deny the problems of justice. The coalition agreement therefore included a strong section of the Justice Department. One of the plans is to examine the possibility of involving third parties in proceedings before disciplinary courts. As you know, the start-up of the new disciplinary courts was not ideal due to a shortage of magistrates and co-chairmen. In an opinion to the 2010 Atomium Working Group, the Supreme Court of Justice also expressed itself as a supporter of external parties in disciplinary courts. Minister, what is the state of play with regard to this passage from the coalition agreement? Has an investigation been started yet? What timing do you put first? Are there any preliminary conclusions yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaeerenbergh, as you know, the disciplinary court consists of two judges and one assessor. In degree of appeal, that's the same thing. The assessor may be either a magistrate of the seat or of the court, or a member of the court staff of level A or B, depending on the status of the person to appear before the disciplinary court. The demand for externals in disciplinary courts was already raised during the parliamentary discussions of the Law of 15 July 2013. This trail was abandoned because the involvement of externals in a court of law would require an amendment to Article 157 of the Constitution. However, it should not be forgotten that the desk is already involved in disciplinary proceedings. In any disciplinary procedure, a staff member of a council of the order shall be added with an advisory vote. Of course consultative, otherwise we will be in breach of the Constitution. The framework of the Disciplinary Court is beginning to be filled. A third call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 19 February 2015, both for the magistrates, mandates and assistants as well as for the judicial staff. I propose that we wait for the evaluation of the disciplinary courts until everything is fully operational. The start-up only dates from September 2014. An activity report must be drawn up each year. This may prove necessary to involve other external partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u7	Mr Minister, I do indeed remember the discussions that we held in this committee on the presence or otherwise of externals. Nevertheless, I hope that you will evaluate and introduce this, because it is in the coalition agreement. We'll come back to this later, if you've examined the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u8	Minister, rehabilitation has a number of meanings. I will focus today on judicial rehabilitation, as you may know. Rehabilitation is the possibility for a person with a criminal record who paid his debt to the company to erase the slate, to hand over his blank record. In other words, it is a right to be forgotten that can prove to be very important. Indeed, having a blank criminal record is interesting and even necessary for the person who wishes to apply for a job. But do not benefit from a rehabilitation that wants! Of course, this is a measure granted only if the applicant meets the three conditions. First, there must be no rehabilitation in ten years. Secondly, it is necessary to have served its sentences, to pay its fines and interest. Finally, the trial time is five years. During this period, the convicted person must have kept himself at work, had good conduct and had a fixed place of residence. Once these three conditions have been met, the convicted person may file his case with the king's prosecutor. The latter will check if all the conditions are met. The case will then be headed by the Court of Appeal and the Indictments Chamber. Of course, the request for rehabilitation is not necessary for police sentences and sentences of less than five years, which are automatically abolished after three years. We might think that this rehabilitation measure is very successful. Actually, not really. In 2009, 1,934 cases were processed and 1,798 pardons were granted. In 2013, these figures almost halved, with 1,074 cases processed and only 976 pardons granted. This decrease hardly reflects the reality of the field, since the number of convictions in correctional institutions, for example, varies between 30,000 and 35,000! So, Minister, how do you explain this reduction in rehabilitation? Can you tell me whether convicted persons are sufficiently informed of this possibility? Do you already have figures for 2014? If so, can you communicate them to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u9	Mrs Cassart, the College of Attorneys General was able to send me the following information within a short time to answer your question. The statistics published by the Permanent Bureau "Statistical and workload measures" on the Justice FPS website confirm the decrease you are reporting. In 2009, 1,944 pardon applications were registered, of which 1,821 were granted. In 2013, 1,080 requests were registered, of which 969 were granted. The figures for 2014 have not yet been communicated to me. For example, the annual statistics of the Antwerp Court of Appeal show a similar downward trend. There were 497 cases in 2009, 466 in 2010, 458 in 2011, 373 in 2012 and 331 in 2013. The prosecution can only confirm this trend, without being able to attribute it to a given cause. The practice shows that the applicant for rehabilitation often motivates his application by the need to present an extract from the blank criminal record in order to be able to find a new job. Finally, it can be considered that the rehabilitation procedure is well known. In this regard, I note that article 628 of the Code of Criminal Investigation specifies that the applicant submits his application for rehabilitation to the king's prosecutor. In other words, the initiative is left to the applicant and it is not up to the Public Prosecutor's Office to actively or proactively inform interested parties of the ability to make such a request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u10	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I can understand that you don't have the 2014 figures yet, because we're still early in the year. When we do, we'll see if the trend continues. I understand in your answer that the request must come from the person concerned and that the justice system must not mention it. I still find these numbers intriguing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u11	Minister, we all know that justice is urgently needed in the 21st century. Several initiatives from large yards have been announced which will have a major impact on procedures, staff and buildings, among others. For example, in the formation of the government, it was agreed to achieve a better division of labour between the different peace courts. In consultation with the peace courts, it would be considered whether it would be appropriate to re-sign the card of the judicial cantons. According to the website of the College of Courts and Courts, the measurement of the workload of the peace courts was planned for the first half of 2014. The previous government also decided that, in order to promote equality between municipalities, the accommodation of the peace courts would be reviewed. No longer the municipalities but the federal government, through the Government of the Buildings, would be responsible for the housing of those peace courts. So, Minister, I have the following questions for you. What is the current state of the workload measurement for the peace courts? When can we expect the results? Has there been any consultation with the peace courts that is looking at the intentions of re-signing the map of the judicial cantons? What reactions did you receive there? What structure do you propose? Which peace dishes or subdivisions could close or merge? What criteria do you use? What role does the workload measurement play in this? How does proximity and access remain assured for citizens, despite possible closures? Finally, how is the implementation of the legislation whereby the housing of these peace courts shifts from the municipalities to the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, according to my information, it would appear that in the district of Dinant there would be only one peace court in the future. Currently, the Collège communal de la Ville de Beauraing, some 20 kilometres from Dinant, is finalizing a preliminary project to establish a justice of peace within its commune, specifically in Baronville. Furthermore, in Gedinne, a location particularly far from Dinant, justice of the peace is located in premises particularly suitable for such services. Needless to say, the disappearance of these two services would be detrimental to the inhabitants of these rural communes, particularly affected by the desertification of public services. Recent closures include the FPS Finance offices, post offices, SNCB stations, etc. The justice of peace, justice of proximity par excellence, must be able to be done within a radius of a few tens of kilometres from the place of residence of the litigants, at the most. A move to Dinant or elsewhere – I have indeed had other information since the filing of my question – for the inhabitants of this canton would be unacceptable. Minister, what about the reality of rumours about the re-establishment of the justices of peace at Gedinne and Beauraing in Dinant? Are they well-founded? Can you assure me that these two settlements will be well preserved in the years to come? More generally, with other information on other rural justices in the province of Namur and Luxembourg, is it true that a plan to close many justices of peace in these two provinces is in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u13	Belgium has a total of 187 peace dishes with 229 seats. This number is very high and the government agreement, supported by questions from the field, provides for a recast in order to ensure more efficient management and a better division of labour between the peace courts. Of course, informal consultations with several actors have already begun. The coalition agreement clearly states that consultations with the peace courts will take place and concretely through various channels, such as the College of Hoven and Courts, the Presidents of peace judges and judges in the police court, but also through, for example, the Royal Covenant of Peace and Police Judges, who were themselves asking parties in relation to the initiative and which I met last month. The coalition agreement provides that the purpose of the redrafting of the card of the judicial cantons is to improve the distribution of workload. It therefore seems logical that the current workload measurement will be an element in the assessment, but not exclusively. Other elements, such as local, socio-economic and other characteristics, such as the presence of psychiatric establishments, the pursuit of efficient management and rationalisation of buildings and infrastructure, staffing policy and the introduction of more management autonomy in the district executive committees of peace judges and police courts, are also involved in the redrafting of the judicial cantons. This project is currently under investigation. Figures are collected and thought exercises are prepared and performed. It will be only after this preparatory work has been completed that a final position will be taken and choices made. Such reform has a major impact on many areas and therefore requires some preparation. I therefore refer to Mr Clarinval's question about the specific situation of Beauraing and Gedinne. It is still too early to provide an answer. A rationalization exercise to reduce the number of buildings in which the justices of the peace sit is in progress, without the main choice already being made. So I cannot go into detail at this point. In line with the overall planning of the Standing Bureau Statistics and Load Measurement, the measurement for the peace courts was launched with a sensitisation phase at the end of 2013. The measurement of workload concerns 187 peace courts representing 21% of the total number of courts. In February 2014, the kick-off took place with 25 peace dishes as pilot expert, followed by 2014 with different phases on how and what to measure. At the beginning of 2015, in a subsequent phase, the simulation of variables per court and personnel needs for each canton was sent to the presidents of the peace judges and police judges for response. At its meeting on 27 January 2015, the Conference of Presidents made a number of comments which were currently being studied and submitted to the expert groups. Only after this validation phase will the final phase start with the final and validated report. The transitional provision in Article 45 of the Management Act of 18 February 2014 provides that all current workload measurements should in principle be completed for the first time by the end of 2015. The current workload measurement is based on the calendar year 2013 and therefore started from the then powers. Therefore, no account has yet been taken of the shifts of jurisdiction under the law on the family court and the law on natural rights in September 2014. This has yet to be processed. The Working Group has decided to make a subsequent measurement after the end of 2015, when the new powers have played for a full year and to add this as an addendum to the report. Finally, with regard to the implementation of the legislation which imposes the obligation to provide housing in the Federal State, I would refer you to the answer I gave to question No. 2 060. Indeed, a file and a law were passed in 2014 on the principle that the federal state takes over the housing obligation. It covered a total of 60 peace courts to which this applied. The draft law provides for a clear ten-year period, after which all peace courts must be taken over. For the leases, the law clearly determines what should be taken over and what should be cancelled. The deadlines are foreseen to make this practical and budgetary feasible. You can read the details in the aforementioned law. The Regie has therefore drawn up lists of all the dossiers and of what needs to be done in concrete terms and with what priority. On this basis this is then carried out. The Government of the Buildings is therefore responsible for the practical acquisition and also for the acquisition and payment of rentals. For the details and the state of play, I would refer you to my colleague responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. Mr President, if I may correct this question. It is not the Royal Covenant of the Peace and Police Judges, but it is the unofficial conference of the presidents of the peace and police judges per arrondissement that is a requesting party with regard to the initiative to redistribute cantons. So I was wrong. It is not the Royal Covenant, but it is the unofficial conference of the Presidents of the police and peace judges per arrondissement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u14	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, you have had discussions to re-sign the cantons, but at the same time there is still a workload measurement and you will wait until it is over to re-write the cantons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u15	Well, that workload measurement for the peace judges is so close that there's no problem. It could happen at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u16	I have intertwined that question with regard to the buildings themselves, because a lot of buildings will have to close because they are very bad at the moment. Maybe those files are related in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u17	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer. That said, I have concerns about it. Indeed, you have confirmed that the reflection is under way. Clearly, the intention is to reduce the number of justices of peace at cantonal level. Among the elements that will be taken into consideration in determining a choice, you mentioned the presence of a psychiatric institute. But you didn't talk about the displacement, the removal of the defendant. In short, the question of rurality does not seem to be – perhaps I have misheard, but I will read your answer carefully – an element that you will take into account in your decision. In doing so, I would like to stress that, in the context of the decisions to be taken, you are committed to paying particular attention to rural areas. According to the information available to me and transmitted to me by relatives of the justice community, it would appear that the centralization of the justices of peace that is proposed – the decision on this matter has not yet been taken – would have the effect of concentrating almost all the justices of peace in Namur. In terms of the size of the province, one can worry about such an approach. I therefore count on you, Minister, to be committed to defending rural life in the choices you are going to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u18	Question No 2421 by Mrs Karine Lalieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u19	Mr. Chair, Minister, 2013 recorded a total of 1,870 escape files. For 2014, statistics for the first half of the year fell to 1,037 cases registered by the federal police, accounting for 55 per cent of the events recorded in 2013. These escape records are recorded for a number of reasons: during a transfer from prison, an appearance before the judge, a medical examination, non-compliance with electronic surveillance or for other reasons that I am not going to mention to you today. Minister, can you explain to me the reasons for this increase? What measures are being taken to reduce the number of escapes? Do these escape files represent a significant workload for the sector? Can you tell me in how many files the escaped person is finally found? Mr President, before proceeding, I should like to inform you that I wish to turn my question No 2661 into a written question because I have to go to the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u20	Minister, I agree with my colleague's question. I also have a question about whether or not to criminalise escape. My colleague has already mentioned the figures. Today, in any case, there are no penalties in our country for persons deprived of their freedom, prisoners and fleeing. There is only a penalty if criminal offences are committed in connection with the escape, but the escape is not punishable in itself. However, these escapes or attempts bring with them problems. Think of the workload, the police forces that are being called up, the sense of security of the citizens that is being affected and so on. Our party has drafted a legislative proposal, similar to the one in France, proposing a prison sentence of 6 months to 3 years for escape and a fine of 25 to 200 euros. Minister, what is your position on this matter? Are you planning initiatives yourself? Do you support this bill or its aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u21	Mr President, ladies, the figures used are those of the police and not those of the prison administration. The number of escapes recorded by the Directorate General of Corrections (DG EPI) for 2014 and 2015 is much lower because the two services use a different definition. In fact, DG PPE records as escape only those detainees who have effectively evaded the execution of the sentence directly from the prison. The statistics of the 2014 annual report, which will be published in June, also include escapes from hospitals, courthouses, etc., i.e. during extractions, but these data are not yet available. The figures are therefore those of escapes in the strict sense of the term. In 2014, there were fourteen escapes, twelve from the open environment and two from the closed environment. Unless there was a record error, there was no escape this year. As you can see, these figures are extremely low and decreasing from year to year, indicating that current procedures are satisfactory. The administration or criminal courts may take into account an escape in the context of decisions concerning the engagement or voluntary release of escaped prisoners after reprisal. I would also like to remind you that escapes are often accompanied by other crimes, which are prosecuted and punished, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to your bill. The coalition agreement does not mention this offence. The government will therefore not take any initiative with a view to criminalising escape. She leaves it to the wisdom of this committee whether your bill will be considered or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u22	Minister, thank you for your clarification and for correcting the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the budget cuts imposed by the federal government on the Department of Justice and those specifically imposed on the country's prison administration have a serious impact on the staff of Mons prison. It is up to me, as well, that the continuous weakening of the framework of Mons prison risks, in the short term, endangering the staff who work there. Today, the prison in Montoise is overcrowded and has a completely obsolete security infrastructure, which could lead to a whole series of risks that should not be minimized. One example cited by the staff representatives asked me in particular. It is explained to me that "if a riot occurs tomorrow at Mons prison, neither the quality of the infrastructure nor the number of agents currently employed would allow them to prevent an attempted escape well orchestrated". After a first restructuring, the current framework at Mons prison is only 235, which according to staff representatives is insufficient. They believe that it should instead be 249 full-time equivalents to meet the challenges they face. In the face of this situation, minister, could support be given to prison officers in Mons prison? Despite the planned budget cuts, is a specific consideration of the situation in this prison, which I remind you is overcrowded? In this context, is there an emphasis on the framework and status of prison officers on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u25	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, as of 4 March 2015, Mons Prison had 413 prisoners for 307 places, divided as follows: 364 men for 280 places, 49 women for 27 places. This corresponds to an overpopulation rate of 34 per cent for the prison as a whole and 30 per cent for men. The 2014 staff plan provides 232 full-time equivalents; 224.60 full-time equivalents currently work in Mons Prison, or 97 per cent of what is planned. The situation at Mons prison is not obvious but is not exceptional. It is also difficult or sometimes more difficult in other institutions and, as Minister of Justice, I have to take the whole situation into consideration. As far as staff are concerned, as we all know, savings measures have been announced and foreseen in the government agreement, but, as you also know, I have committed myself to defending the principle of a different rate of savings for the FPS Justice during the next budgetary control. Depending on the results, I will be able to consider whether it is appropriate and possible to take specific measures for Mons prison. I would also point out that working groups are under way to take into account the impact of savings measures on the work of staff. This obviously also applies to Mons prison. Compared to overcrowding, a whole series of classifications to other prisons have been decided but have not yet been carried out for various reasons. It's not about one shot operations. The central administration is taking regular measures to remove congestion at Mons prison, which was also able to take advantage of the opening of Leuze-en-Hainaut prison. As you can see, the situation in Mons prison is closely monitored by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u26	Minister, thank you. I see that the door is not closed to an improvement in the situation and an increase in staff in this particular prison. So I'll come back to you at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u27	Question No 2661 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 2728 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u28	Minister, the change of the acting chief griffin at the peace court of Aarschot was recently published in the Belgian Official Journal. So she's leaving Aarschot. She replaced the head griffin, who retired in 2013 but was not replaced. This means that there is now only one Registrar who has to deal with the preparation of judgments or the hand-signing of receipts for, inter alia, claims and payments. A delegation by a level C or D staff member shall not be requested by those staff members. The place of assistant has been filled by a ministerial decision initially for six months, but it has been extended by six additional months until 15 May 2015. In general, only 16 of the 22 Registrars are currently appointed to the peace courts in the district of Leuven, which is less than 75%. Perhaps the total number of staff employed by the Registry is higher, but the specific function of the Registrar means that not all tasks can be taken over by the other Registry staff. Increased mobility among clerks is therefore difficult, since filling one place by internal mobility leaves an empty place at another Registry. It means, of course, that in Aarschot, in the absence of the Registrar, for whatever reason, such as illness or holiday, part of the work cannot be carried out. For the arrondissement of Leuven, the chief griffin, who assists the president of peace courts and police courts, has not yet been appointed. Mr Minister, first of all, the clerk problem in Aarschot arose as a result of a change whereby someone left the peace court of Aarschot. Are there currently requests for changes, at the level of the Registrar, from persons wishing to work at the peace court in Aarschot? If yes, why can't it be met in order to restore balance? If not, what are the possible solutions in view of budgetary constraints? Secondly, is a further extension possible by ministerial decision of the current assistant in Aarschot? When will that be decided? Thirdly, how do you wish to improve the interpretation of the Registrar's framework in the peace courts of the Leuven arrondissement? I believe that this could lead to increased mobility. Finally, what is the state of play at the moment in relation to the appointment procedure of the Chief Registrar, who is to assist the President of the peace judges and police judges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u29	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as far as your first question is concerned, consultations are currently being held with the representatives of the judicial system with a view to launching a possible round of changes before I rationalise the legislation in this area. In practical terms, due to the changed judicial landscape, the Personnel Service of the DG for the Judicial Organisation will examine the existing applications and assess whether they are still possible and whether they are still interested. I hope to be able to give a ruling on this matter to the staff concerned in April. It goes without saying that the reform of the judicial landscape and the increased mobility of staff have an impact on the way in which the principle of the change will be applied in the future. There are currently five requests for changes for clerks for the peace courts of the Arrondissement of Leuven, to which Aarschot belongs. As far as your second question is concerned, if the judicial authorities request the extension of the current assistant, I will examine that request with due attention. As far as your third question is concerned, the interpretation of the Registrar's framework in the peace courts of the Arrondissement of Leuven is 18 in 22 places, plus one with a mandate, which brings to 19 out of 22 places of clerks and therefore not 16 out of 22. The place of Registrar's Head of Service was republished on 4 March. As far as your fourth question is concerned, there are seven candidates for the position of chief clerk. The selection period runs from 13 to 27 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u30	Thank you, Minister. We will continue to follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u31	Question No 2742 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2799 by Mr Van de Velde was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2872 by Mrs Uyttersprot was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I was able to read, last week, a rather interesting press article about the fact that magistrates and the Federal Public Service Justice are building up their minds to help you realize the savings required of your department. One idea was to remedy the cumbersome organization of elections at the municipal and provincial levels, given the time it takes for magistrates. The proposal made by the judiciary in this context was to refer this task to the provincial administrations. Of course, this might be interesting, but I wonder about the feasibility of such a transfer of tasks in a manner that respects the separation of powers. If this proved feasible, would it make it possible to achieve an economy? And I'll wait for your answer to tell you what I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u33	Mr President, dear colleague, in a rule of law, each power is exercised by separate bodies with specific roles. However, these three powers cooperate and exercise mutual control over each other in order to preserve the individual from violating his or her fundamental rights. The task assigned to the judges in the elections seems to me naturally to stem from this principle. It allows for independent monitoring of the proper organization of elections. The intervention of judges in the organisation of elections therefore has added value and is part of a set of checks and balances that contributes to fair, fair and transparent elections. There is therefore no concrete plan to transfer to local administrations the responsibilities of judges in the organisation of elections. This does not detract from the fact that it is possible to examine whether improvements are possible in the context of the harmonization of the respective tasks and responsibilities of judges and local administrations, and certainly in the preparation of elections. With regard to the organisation of elections and, more generally, the Electoral Code, I would like to point out that this matter falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u34	I was going to start by saying that we both loved Montesquieu, which is very good. But I understand that its principles and philosophy can in any case be extensible, particularly with regard to certain organisational principles. I hear it well, I find it very interesting and I will, indeed, take my pilgrim stick to go and ask the minister of the interior about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u35	Mr President, Minister, in 2011, then Minister of Justice, Stefaan De Clerck, already supported electronic payment at the Registry. His successor, Minister Turtelboom, also expressed his support. In 2008, a limited study was conducted by the FPS Justice Department. This showed that the installation of some three hundred and seventy payment terminals resulted in a cost of around EUR 500 000. The annual consumption cost would be EUR 250 000. I can imagine that it has become much cheaper in the meantime. Minister Turtelboom told me that the issue was included in the structural consultation with the counters at the time. It intended to place progressive payment terminals in all Registrys. In the meantime, the Registrar's certificate has become obsolete and involves many safety aspects. Cash money also involves a security problem. The Registrar's certificate also brings with it a considerable administrative workload, while there is already a shortage of registry staff. How do you view the introduction of electronic payments at the Registry? What plans do you have on this? What timing do you foresee? In what way do the current plans for computerisation provide for the future payment method of electronic payment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u36	My question is almost a copy-paste in French of the one that has just been asked and actually relates to electronic payment in relation to that reality. I had the pleasure of visiting the Registry of the Court of First Instance of Liège and I have indeed found that the situation in this Registry in any case has not yet been resolved. So I am not going to repeat what Mrs Van Vaerenbergh just said. I would just like to know what is going on with the process of secure payment in the registry. Are there any difficulties and reservations that would possibly justify this rather late implementation? What would be the cost of implementing electronic payment? Finally, how long do you think the transplants will be equipped?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I fully support the Registry's request for an electronic payment system. As Minister of Finance, I was already confronted through the Court of Auditors with the question of the replacement of accounting officers who were the victims of thefts of cash in the Registry. In addition, several clerks asked this question to my policy cell in connection with contacts in connection with the drafting of the draft law on the reform of registry rights. It is time for the Justice Department to adapt its services to the social evolution of electronic payments. The introduction of a secure electronic payment system in court registries is part of the implementation of uniform accounting processes in view of the integration of these payments into FEDCOM and the reform of the Judicial Order. The timing of the project therefore depends on these projects with a 2016-2017 horizon. In order to launch a public procurement for terminals in registries, a request for information has already been sent to market participants. The analysis of the responses is under way. The cost of adapting the CWS Justice ICT infrastructure has not yet been determined and depends on several factors such as the number of payments, the number of courts and courts involved, and the basic applications that are impacted. These elements will of course also have an impact on the cost of purchasing and/or renting terminals. On the basis of this analysis, this project, which is also included in my Justice Plan, will be given priority in the FPS Justice IT program. You will understand that it is difficult to give details of when these payment terminals are to be installed in the Registry today, given the need to launch a public procurement procedure. You already have my commitment to make it work. Safety is important to me, including in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your commitment. I believe that this will simplify and modernise things very much. A registry full of paperwork and returns to lawyers or accounting seems to me to be rather time-consuming. In my view, only in court today cannot be paid electronically. I hope this will come soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. My line is the same. Furthermore, I would point out that this payment system has been in existence for three years in my municipality, which is certainly a small municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u40	Minister, last week the press reported a sad ranking for Belgium, which is in the top 5 overcrowded prisons in Europe. As of 1 September 2012, Belgian prisons had an average of 132 prisoners per 100 places available. A year later, unfortunately, this average had increased further to 134.2 prisoners per 100 places available. This rate places Belgium among the countries with the highest prison overcrowding. According to the Council of Europe report, Belgium is fourth after Italy, Hungary and Cyprus. The report also highlights another trend since Belgium stands out for the proportion of prisoners serving long-term sentences. Those sentenced to more than 20 years in prison account for 7% of the prison population, compared to a European average of 2.3%. There is therefore a great difference between Belgium and the other European countries in this respect. Only Greece, with 18.6%, and Albania, with 9.4%, outperform Belgium in this area. This makes the conditions of detention inhumane and makes the prison a dangerous place for staff and criminogenic to detainees. Do you not think there is a need to make the fight against prison overcrowding a top priority and to re-evaluate the policies that have been put in place so far? What alternative measures do you intend to reduce overcrowding in our prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures quoted are indeed published in the media and come from a report by the Council of Europe. As I said a few weeks ago, in response to a question from Mr. Denis Ducrame, the figures for the proportion of prison overcrowding suffer from imprecision because the number of people sentenced to electronic surveillance has been included in the prison population. I can tell you that yesterday, on 10 March 2015, 11 395 detainees were incarcerated in Belgian prisons, for a capacity of 10 185. This means that the ratio of overpopulation is about 113%, not 134.2%. The percentage of those sentenced to long-term sentences in Belgian prisons is actually above the European average. In the near future, I will present my Justice Plan. The fight against overpopulation is, as you know, one of my priorities. The number of prisoners must decrease. I will make proposals to streamline entry and exit flows. In terms of alternative solutions, proposals will also be made in this plan. Probation and electronic supervision as autonomous sentences will come into force. In accordance with the Government Agreement, confiscation should also be provided for as an autonomous penalty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer and the detailed figures you have provided. These figures are therefore revised downwards, if people who are under electronic supervision are included. However, there is still a problem of overpopulation, which has been a problem for several years. As you have rightly said, alternative penalties, whether probation, labour or confiscation, should be considered as autonomous penalties. In any case, every effort will have to be made at different levels. Indeed, in the last legislature, we have faced many problems in our prisons. We had to face strikes, repeated riots. If the problem is not caught at arm-to-body, it will become recurring and will worsen year after year. I will therefore come back to this issue after your Justice Plan has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you several times about the investigative means used by Belgium to contribute to the establishment of a judicial truth in the Kazakhgate case, also known here as the Chodiev case. According to information published on 6 March both in the newspaper De Standaard and in the weekly Le Vif, the French judicial authorities would be somewhat impatient in this matter and in demand of a better collaboration on the part of the Belgian judicial authorities. At the end of February, a delegation of two French investigating judges reportedly went to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels to request Belgium's assistance and to carry out investigative duties in this case. In view of the latest developments in the case file and the amount of information published on the subject, it would be incomprehensible that the Belgian courts should not take action on the case file and do not carry out the duties of investigation requested, on charge and on discharge. Mr Minister, do you confirm the visit of two French investigating judges to Brussels in the context of the above-mentioned case? What was their exact request? Was it a request for mutual legal assistance as such? What was the Belgian court's response to this request? Why does Belgian justice seem so unresponsive to France's repeated demands? If you don't believe me, I'll tell you. In the case of X, which you told me existed on 14 January, have any investigative duties already been carried out? Which ones? What are the next steps in this file and the forecasts of its completion time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u44	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, you are aware that in Belgium, we are very attached to the secrecy of the investigation, not to conceal any information whatsoever, but because the legislator has so planned. It is enshrined in the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to preserve the presumption of innocence, the rights of defence of the accused, the victim and third parties, respect for privacy and the dignity of persons. If the public interest so requires, the Crown Prosecutor may, however, provide information, including to the press. I must not paint a picture of the adverse effects of a violation of the presumption of innocence or the rights of defence of an accused person. There is no clearer case law on this matter. The information published in the press is detailed, but incomplete. At the request of the judicial authorities, however, I shall confine myself today to confirming that information is also under way in Belgium and that, in this context, intensive contacts have taken place with the French judicial authorities in recent weeks. This also explains why the Federal Prosecutor's Office is involved in this case. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Attorney General has assured me that the case is being followed very closely and that the French judicial authorities receive all the assistance they want.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u45	Minister, of course, I respect all the principles that you have just set out and that you set out every time I ask you about this or other matters. You will be able to consider with me that the publication of information as precise as I was able to read in the newspaper De Standaard and in Le Vif and this suspicion of non-reactivity of Belgian justice in relation to an urgent demand of French justice do not give a good picture of justice. We have the impression, perhaps falsely, that there is no will to move forward on a matter that arouses the emotion of our fellow citizens. As you have said, the investigation is carried out on a charge and on a discharge with respect for the presumption of innocence, but sometimes it is just as counterproductive as it is too much to say that there is no doubt about the will to move forward and the means devoted to it. I hope, Minister, as is often the case, that, in this symbolically important matter, there are more things going on than you could tell us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u46	Mr Minister, in one of our Walloon communes, a mayor is also a lawyer. If not rare, he defends a doctor from his commune who is in dispute with the circle of doctors in his area. This circle tries to organize a guard post in this commune in order to bring a response to the shortage of doctors in this region and needs the support of the commune to do so. Interferences between these dimensions, the risk of confusion of roles and interests, and hence an infringement of de facto independence or at least appearance in the positions taken by the mayor and his College. Does the support or not, on the part of the mayor-avocado, for the installation of a guard post initiated by the circle of doctors depend on the evolution of the trial, the judgment or the dispute between this circle and the doctor defended by the lawyer-bourgmestre? The lawyer has the possibility of having, through his role as mayor, power over one of the parties involved in the dispute in which he intervenes. Do you share my concern about the risk of impartiality on the part of the municipal authorities in view of this combination of functions? Should legislative initiatives be taken to prevent such situations? Is this within the jurisdiction of the Bar Association? Can he then intervene on his own initiative on the basis of his knowledge of the facts and without a complaint? In the case relating to Mr. De Decker, the president of the French-speaking chamber of the Ordre des avocats indicated that he would verify whether or not there was respect for ethics under the cumulation of duties, which may affect the integrity of individuals in either of these roles. I would like to know how to respond to this type of situation and how to know your analysis as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Article 437 of the Judicial Code provides that the profession of lawyer is incompatible with the profession of effective magistrate, clerk and agent of the State, with the functions of notary and judicial officer and with the exercise of an industry or trade. Article 437 of the Judicial Code also provides that the profession of lawyer is incompatible with paid activities and jobs, public or private, unless they endanger neither the independence of the lawyer nor the dignity of the Bar. It is generally accepted that there is no incompatibility between the profession of lawyer and the function of mayor. Nevertheless, the Regions, for their part, have had to take into account certain situations which a mayor who would otherwise be a lawyer could face and regulate them. In this sense, reference can be made to Article 1125/10 of the Walloon Code of Local Democracy in which the situation referred to is settled. Supervision of the proper exercise of the profession and of its principles of dignity, integrity and discretion, which are the foundation of the profession of lawyer, is provided by the Council of the Order. These principles of dignity, probity and delicacy are established by the Order of French and German-speaking Bar Associations and by the Orde van Vlaamse Balies in regulations on the basis of article 496 of the Judicial Code. For example, article 1.2 of the Code of Ethics of the Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone provides that the lawyer is bound by various duties, including the defence and advice of his client in complete independence and freedom, the prevention of conflicts of interest and dignity, and also the probity and delicacy that form the basis of the profession and ensure that it is properly exercised. In the event that there is a concern regarding the cumulation of mandates, any interested party may invoke article 458 of the Judicial Code. This article provides that the batonier shall receive and examine complaints concerning lawyers of his order. To be admissible, complaints are submitted in writing and must be signed and dated and contain the complainant's full identity. The batonier may also carry out an investigation ex officio or upon written denunciation by the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u48	Minister, I therefore have the tools I can refer to, be it the Judicial Code, the Walloon Code of Local Democracy or the Code of Ethics. The only possibility of this circle of doctors is therefore to lodge a complaint with the order if they consider that there is a risk of conflict. You have not given me your assessment of the potential conflict of interest in these situations. I am surprised that the function of mayor is considered to be compatible with a lawyer's function. Many cases of contentious situations must exist. We're going back to the ethics of the profession... so I'm going to continue my investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u49	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, individual security inmates have, according to the law of principles, the right to appeal against the placement under this regime or against its extension. However, ten years after the publication of the law, this remedy remains purely theoretical since the appeal commission of the Central Prison Supervision Board has not yet been established, since the implementing decrees have never been issued. The Council of State has recently declared itself incompetent to hear the appeal against the umpteenth renewal of one of these regimes and has criticized the lack of possibility of appealing against such decisions sometimes taken for very long periods of time. It also regretted that a right of appeal, enshrined in the 2005 law, still did not exist in practice ten years after the publication of the law. According to the Council of State, this creates a feeling of injustice in the detainee's head. Minister, your government agreement provides for the adaptation of the law of principles and its full implementation. What's your status on this? Can you tell us more about what you want to adapt? When can it be hoped that the entire Act of 12 January 2005 will enter into force? Specifically on the appeal of these so-called special security regime decisions, the absence of an appeal against these even stricter detention measures is unacceptable. When can we really hope for the establishment of this appeal board of the Central Prison Supervision Board?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Özen, it is a fact that not all the provisions of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 have yet entered into force. The most important is the supervision of prisons by the Central Prison Supervisory Board and local commissions, the right to file complaints, work, health care and health protection, and the planning of detention. Both the government agreement and my policy statement provide for the full implementation of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005, in order to guarantee all the rights and obligations of a prisoner in a formal law. In this regard, I refer you to my answer to question No 944 put by President Philippe Goffin. The Justice Plan, which I will present shortly, will deal more concretely with this subject and the chronology of achievements. More specifically, with regard to the appeal against individual security decisions brought before the Appeals Board within the Central Prison Supervision Board, I can state the following: it is a fact that, according to the settled case law of the Council of State, such measures, when dictated by considerations of security and prudence, are internal measures against which no appeal for annulment is, in principle, open. However, the civil courts have jurisdiction to rule on such measures in the event of an alleged violation of subjective rights. However, I can support your position that there should be a procedure for opposing these measures that is free and accessible to all detainees. In the Justice Plan, I will announce that after an in-depth study, an opinion from the Central Council and the commissions, it is possible to consider a right of complaint. A Commission of Appeal and a Complaints Commission should then be set up within those bodies, chaired by a judge. This requires an additional organization with costs and staffing requirements. However, it must be borne in mind that the Central Council and the commissions should ideally, for the sake of independence, be transferred to a separate institute within the Federal Parliament. From then on, it will no longer be the responsibility of the Department of Justice to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u51	Minister, I will refer to the answer you have given to our dear President because I do not have the content of it. Above all, I would like to stress that, even if an exceptional system allows for exceptional measures, the exception now becomes the principle. It is therefore essential to set up a system of recourse, especially in these cases of truly special regimes which can last and which are extremely strict. I will come back to this issue and closely monitor this appeal board and these independent bodies that you want to set up shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u52	Minister, last week we learned of a public inquiry into a project to build a new courthouse in the Sablon district of Brussels. This future palace would be intended to house the criminal courts of appeal and proceedings, as well as the investigating courts and the Attorney-General's Office. Similarly, an application for an urban and environmental permit was submitted for the construction of a new courthouse consisting of eight floors, four basements, for a surface area of 26,500 square metres. This surprising announcement, made via red posters arranged in the neighborhood, caused many actors in the judicial and associative world to react. There are many oppositions to this initiative, as I said. Many consider it doubtful, hasty, costly and useless. The SM, the IEB, the SAD and the Brussels Bar are asking about the opportunity of such a project, its cost and the future that will be reserved for the old palace. Undoubted, because there must be a complete lack of consultation with the actors in the justice system. Precipitous, since a mission was entrusted to a consultant for the search for new assignments for the present courthouse and a partner interested in the exploitation of certain parts of the palace of Poelaert Square. Costy because the amounts advanced for the rental of these new buildings are of the order of 360 million over twenty years, and unnecessary, since security works are under way at the courthouse of Poelaert Square, as well as the construction of four well-secure courtrooms and a new court seat. Minister, has a public procurement been launched by you or by the Régie des Bâtiments for the construction of a new courthouse? If so, was a specification prepared? By whom? What's in it? Who was consulted to draft it? How can we explain the lack of information to all justice actors? Why was this request for the construction of a new courthouse when different studies on the new assignment of the old courthouse were launched and the continuation of the "justice" activity seemed to have been endorsed? Finally, can you reassure the judicial actors on this subject in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u53	Mrs Özen, I must confess frankly that I was as surprised as you, for the simple reason that there has not yet been a call for tenders. If someone submits a project as part of a building permit file, they do so at their own risk and without the data necessary to develop a correct project. The Régie des Bâtiments is responsible for awarding the contract. In collaboration with Justice, the Régie is currently preparing the specifications. It is based on the needs programs that are developed by the CPS in collaboration with the judicial services. At all the stages that have taken place so far in the whole of the dossier - and in this regard I refer to the overall plan which has already been sufficiently explained here by my predecessors - all the actors concerned have always been informed by the existing bodies. To conclude and for information, there is no construction site of the Régie for the construction, in the Palais de Justice, of additional courtrooms or an additional room for the current sitting trials.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u54	I'm sure you're surprised. We know the budgetary difficulties and we could go back to the opportunity of such a project. It could be said that a private promoter would inquire with the minister or the person in charge within the Régie des Bâtiments. We had the impression that it was more or less done in catini, that this person had met you. So I'm reassured that you're as surprised as I am. In any case, the specifications prepared by the Régie des Bâtiments are expected. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u55	Question No 2889 by Mr Dedecker is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u56	Mr Minister, seven prisoners from the Louvain prison decided to bring the Belgian State to justice because of the cessation of the subsidies they received in order to pursue a university curriculum. The FPS Justice would thus have abolished the monthly support for student inmates. While further education or training by prisoners is strongly encouraged with a view to their reintegration, the financial support granted to them seems particularly necessary in order to prevent prisoners who wish to train from being penalized compared to those who are engaged in paid work in the prison. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr. Minister, the following questions: Do you confirm the removal of monthly support for inmates on a university degree program? Does this also concern other curricula or training programmes? If so, what reasons have led to the deletion? Do you still want to promote prison education in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u57	Mr President, this matter is regulated by Ministerial Circular No. 1773 of 21 February 2005 on incentives to study for prisoners. This circular provides, inter alia, that the inmate must undergo structured training leading preferably to a diploma or certificate. Training should focus on learning intellectual skills, such as general training courses (e.g. literacy courses, French, Dutch, arithmetic), secondary education or university education. Vocational training, DIY courses and training through distance learning are not taken into account. As you can see, this regulation is very broad and covers a large number of possible courses, university courses being only one aspect. However, it is applicable for general training. I would like to point out that, in fact, prisoners undergoing vocational training are not covered by this regulation, since they are paid by the Prison Labour Board. The circular also provides that it is for the prison administration to decide in practice, on the basis of available budgets, which study projects are eligible for an incentive grant. It states that: "the central administration, staff of the Director General, will manage this article by project out of envelope. Projects meeting the criteria set out above must be proposed annually in December to headquarters, either by yourself or by teaching staff with activities in your institution, but with your explicit consent." In concrete terms, 2015 budgets are EUR 141 000 instead of EUR 171 000 for 2014, to be distributed among all prisons. You will find that these budgets are not extensible and that choices must be made and priorities established. For 2015, the choice was made not to provide incentives for certain courses, including training in environment, natural sciences, management, psychology, law, philosophy, marketing, physics, commerce and public relations. It's a choice that needs to be made. But as I have already said, it concerns only a small number of training courses. In particular, it has no impact on the vocational training provided by the Communities and Regions within prisons. On the other hand, I can understand that in relation to integration and social reintegration, the administration is instead focusing on, for example, language or literacy courses. You can be assured that the reduction of the budget of 30 000 euros is the subject of very special attention on my part and that I will do everything possible to bridge this difference with other means.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u58	I thank you and I see - I doubt it - that your concern is to ensure that people who go through the prison box can come out with other tools in hand so that they can reintegrate in better conditions, if it is possible that this is the case, for some of them in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u59	Minister, a few days ago, the Commissioner presented the annual scoreboard on the operation of justice in the European Member States. Of course, it is important not only for Justice but also for other areas to be able to make European comparisons. We have known for some time now that it is certainly not a problem today that Belgium is not always the leading figure. It seems therefore that few conclusions can be drawn for our country. However, such comparison and evaluation could be useful, not only for comparison with other European Member States, but also for efficiency and improvement of the lead times of procedures. After all, I can perfectly imagine that, in order to conduct policy, you should be able to rely on a number of data on the operation of justice. Starting from a zero measurement, you can then check which processes are needed for a more efficient way of working. One of the problems would therefore be the lack of developed computer systems. What are the exact causes? The previous minister repeatedly stated that work was being done on computerisation at Justice. Despite our many questions, it was never clear whether progress was indeed being made. Do you see a solution for providing additional figures possible and at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u60	Mr Minister, my question is on the same subject. At the beginning of this week we were able to read the European Justice Scoreboard in the press. It is a comparative document from the European Commission. It is striking that, as in 2014, Belgium has or has been able to make available remarkably few figures. In 2014, I also questioned the then Minister for Justice, Mrs Turtelboom, about the issue. Mrs Turtelboom claimed that Belgium had the figures often, but not in the right form. According to the Commission, the monitoring of data was carried out in a uniform manner across the districts. It is striking that Belgium is under-statutory in the field of computerisation. In terms of electronic communication between courts and courts and parties, Belgium even scores the worst of all EU countries, with the exception of the United Kingdom, which did not provide figures. How is it that Belgium once again made so little data available? What measures will you take to ensure that we score better next year? When can we see the results in the field of computerisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u61	The EU justice scoreboard is based on data collected by the European Commission from various sources such as CEPEJ, the World Bank, the Consumer Protection Corporation Network, European Network of the Councils for the Judicial. The European Commission's study is not submitted in advance to or approved by the Member States. This means that certain statistics which are not applicable to Belgium and are thus transmitted, such as non-contentious matters, are mentioned as missing in the EU report. Belgium currently scores very poorly in providing statistical data for lead times, number of new pending and processed cases. This is due to a combination of factors. The Standing Bureau for Statistics and Workload Measurement, which is integrated into the support service of the College of Courts and Courts, has been developing an automated data collection for reliable and uniform statistics since 2008. The development of these so-called data warehouses began with three statisticians. Since recently they have been eight, thanks to the establishment of the College of Courts and Courts. However, since statistics are also needed for the measurement of workload, a lot of energy goes into the development of these statistics and focuses on the statistics of the courts and courts whose workload is measured. In recent years, these have been the courts of appeal, the labour courts and the courts of first instance. The government and Parliament have rightly given this priority. In addition, important developments in the legislation mean additional work for the adaptation of the data collection. I am talking, among other things, about the new judicial landscape, the installation of the family courts and the division of BHV. At the same time, the various applications in the courts are replaced by the uniform and central Mac system, which also requires an adjustment of the data warehouse. As a result, some courts have uniform and verified and validated data. For the peace courts, the police courts and the courts of commerce, where the workload measurements had not yet been started, clear and verified figures are still lacking. However, the European Union requires statistics on all civil and commercial matters without distinction. As not all figures could be given and therefore methodologically incomplete, it was preferred not to give figures for the time being. The problem will be solved as the permanent agency can check the statistics of missing courts. As it will carry out the measurement of workload of courts of commerce and peace courts, the statistics will soon be available. In addition, the European Commission's permanent office and representatives sat together in December 2014 on the problem of statistics. The Bureau then committed itself to releasing, in 2015, all the figures available to it, even if only partially. These are the specific reasons why my predecessors did not provide more complete information. You will understand that, with my scientific background, I, like you, regret that we do not have any more, better structured, more comparable and more aggregated figures. Now that we are undertaking a thorough reorganisation of justice, or rather continuing, you will understand that I would have liked to have good information. Of course, it is not that there is no information, but it is often fragmentary, too late available, not always well comparable and so on. I hope that the fact that we can continue to work on this for several years will lead to better results. You will understand that, when I expressed the ambition that any procedure should be completed at a level of construction within one year, I am a supporter of the argument and I am convinced that we should dare to benchmark ourselves. Where are the solutions? We must develop a culture of information collection and, above all, information management. That's different from computer management. The latter is an instrument to do the first. In turn, information management is an instrument for better policy, both operational and strategic and political. It is therefore an important building block in the longer term for better justice. That is why we already made the decision last month to set up an information management service at the FPS Justice Department. That's the first step. This follows the development of a vision of information management in Justice. This will help us to develop the right information technology, which collects the necessary information and allows it to unlock and analyse it. With this approach, I want the occasional and not very structured way of collecting and managing information in Justice, which is often perceived as a burden for this reason, to create information management that will become an instrument for a better operational and strategic judicial policy. You had already understood that this approach goes hand in hand with the development of the ICT of Justice. As a result of the discussion of the Justice Plan, we can go into this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Figures are, of course, not only important for European statistics. That is why I pointed out in my question that it is necessary to know which parameters or data are used if we are to pursue policies. I would like to summarize your answer as follows: information technology is at the service of the objectives that we want to achieve. You say that the vision of the management of information is an important element in this. I am also convinced that information collection will be efficient and efficient, and with the cooperation of everyone, if one knows what it serves and where it leads. We need to know that we do business and collect data, because they make sense and because something is happening to it. It is worth it, because in this way, taking account of the workload, for example, one can deal with it. I hope that the structured approach, as you describe it here and on which we can go into more detail within the framework of the Justice Plan, will bear fruit. I understand that the data will be made available to Europe in any case, even in part. Perhaps the remark will be added that this is only partial data. I am certainly glad to hear that it goes beyond just the statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u63	I agree with my colleague's reply. Of course, it is important to keep track of data. If a measure is taken or new legislation is adopted, then it should be possible to check whether the legislation has had a positive effect. Until now the data were not kept or not uniformized, so we could not check whether the policy pursued was useful and we did not know how to adjust. I hope it comes of it. If we read the report next year in the media or on the European Commission's website, I hope that our statistics will include at least a number of data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u64	Mrs. Dumery is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u65	Mr President, Minister, according to some newspapers, it appears that several local police areas no longer have salivary tests. This test, which costs 12 euros a piece, is necessary during the driving checks to find out quickly if the motorist is driving under the influence of the drug. It is our responsibility that at the time of ordering these tests, the police areas have been told that Justice no longer has any money to carry out its orders. The equipment is and therefore remains out of stock, and police officers must dispense with this test. Police officers on the ground deplore this situation. Minister, do you confirm this information? When can it be hoped that the police areas will receive the equipment? What is the budget for this test and how do you explain that it is responsible for justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has just been outlined by the previous speaker. Certain sources claim that certain police zones no longer have saliva testing. As a result, it is obviously not possible for police officers to check quickly whether or not the driver has used drugs. This contrasts sharply with the priority given to these tests. The tests are of course not cheap either because they cost about 12 euros each. Mr Minister, can you tell us where the problem really is, since you are telling us through the media that there are no ordering problems? The police seem to be out of saliva tests. When will these be available back to the various police zones? Can you tell us what the procedure is for the police to get these saliva tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u67	Mr President, before requests from different police zones can be converted into orders from the supplier awarded the public contract, my administration had to take the normal actions necessary at the beginning of a new budgetary year to obtain the necessary financial coverage for those orders. Meanwhile, this is completely in order and my administration is busy converting the various requests into orders. It is important to note that the credits for court fees that are used to purchase these salivary tests are also affected by the 20% savings that the government imposed this year on the means of operation. This means that the pattern of use of the police zones must take this into account as far as possible. On an annual basis, around 170,000 euros were spent in 2014 for the purchase and provision of salivary tests to federal and local police areas. Since these are criminal justice costs, which are ultimately recovered from the convicted person, the supply is made according to a call for tender issued by the Court of Justice. The appropriations relating to court expenses shall cover this contract financially. It is procedurally necessary to comply in a uniform manner with the technical conditions laid down in the regulations and therefore to provide the same type of saliva testing that has been approved. This is why the different police zones cannot purchase saliva tests on their own.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. I wanted to say that the salivary test is an indispensable tool for police work in the field. You understand that the unavailability of adequate equipment sometimes causes frustration among police officers. That is why I will not fail to return to you in order to follow the development of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u69	Minister, I am amazed at the way things are going. If I understand you correctly, you have a certain budget that, like all budgets, has been reduced. At the beginning of a new budgetary year, you make a full order and then redistribute the different police zones. They use the material, but when the stock is exhausted in June or August, that zone will be without saliva tests until the beginning of a new budgetary year. That's an odd way of doing things. This means that certain targeted tests cannot be carried out. According to you, new deliveries are coming. In police areas where people have worked hard and where these tests have been used many times, people have been without them for a long time. I hope people do not know which zones they are. Otherwise, they may have an inflation rate of people who think they can't get caught driving under the influence of drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u70	Mr President, Minister, we were able to read in the press the story of two children whose custody was granted to grandparents by the juvenile court. Those grandparents had moved with the two children to Croatia to stay away from the father, who allegedly was violent. After a year, these grandparents in Croatia were convicted for suspected kidnapping and they were extradited to our country. The mother asked the question to bring the children back to Belgium. You said at the time that you did everything in your power to achieve this. I understand from the media that this has happened in the meantime. Without going into the individual dossier very specifically, but in the context of that international child abduction, I would have liked to hear from you the following. First of all, how did this happen? Secondly, are there lessons to be learned from this for similar situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u71	I confirm that there were two Belgian children in a youth institution in Croatia. On the basis of a judgment of the juvenile court, the children's return to Belgium was requested. Tuesday 3 March 2015 we learned in the afternoon that the exequatur procedure that ran before a local court was successfully completed and that the children could be picked up. I immediately approved the organisation and taking charge of their return by plane. Thursday 5 March in the early morning, an employee of the FPS Justice Department, specializing in international cooperation in civil matters, together with the mother of the children, took the plane to Zagreb to pick up the children there, with the support of our embassy on the spot. The employee had the impression that the children had been very well cared for. The return with the children went very smoothly, apart from some difficulties with the passport control in Zagreb, which were cleared on the spot. There was a stopover in Munich and that too went smoothly. Upon arrival in Brussels the mother and the children were well received and accompanied to a youth institution, where the mother could say goodbye. That too seems to have gone well. A very recent judgment of the juvenile judge of Mechelen has indeed assigned the children to this institution in the first instance. The case is followed by the juvenile judge who can evaluate what is best for the children. I would like to stress that my department and the staff involved have spared no effort in this dossier and that they have demonstrated great professionalism through their commitment and dedication. The District Court of Mechelen has also been responsible for a careful follow-up of the situation and the decisions of the Mechelen Juvenile Court with the best interests of the children in mind. Finally, I am grateful to our embassy for the support she has given in this difficult dossier. The intention has always been to accompany the children back to Belgium as soon as possible and in the best conditions. We are pleased that this has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I do not think that this is an obvious situation, with legislation and practice abroad and an exequatur procedure from here. The people of the Justice Department followed this very closely and supervised it. It's important that we can do this. This is a human approach to justice that we do not always hear about, but which is an important element for the welfare of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u73	Minister, in this committee, you have often been asked about the lack of staff in the courts and tribunals of the country. You announced a few weeks ago that you decided to meet personally with all the heads of bodies, presidents and divisional prosecutors. On the eve of a major plan, what conclusions do you draw from these meetings with heads of corps, presidents, divisional prosecutors, clerks and chief secretaries? What is the situation of staff? What will your priorities be if you are already able to give us some insight into this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u74	Mr President, I believe that the consultation with the heads of bodies of the judicial authorities is extremely fruitful. The demands are sometimes very different. While such a body needs more administrative support (secretaries, assistants or collaborators), another expresses the need to strengthen legal support (lawyers, prosecutors or referenda). Still others are calling for the rapid completion of the judicial framework. I was therefore particularly pleased to have been able to republish, on 4 March, a series of places left vacant for magistrates and judicial staff, clerks and secretaries. Yesterday, vacant places for judicial staff, assistants and collaborators C and D, were also published. Several lessons were learned from the dialogue. In order for the transfer of competences to proceed smoothly, it must be accompanied by accompanying measures in the management of staff and TCI. It is true that the adoption of new legislation – such as the law on collective settlement of debts, the law on natural judges or the law on disciplinary tribunals – has not always been welcomed with the greatest enthusiasm by courts and tribunals. This does not mean, however, that judges and judicial personnel do not make efforts to ensure the implementation of these laws. On the contrary, I note that all are making significant efforts to standardize, streamline and simplify working processes or to exchange good practices. Despite the publication of vacant posts, the situation remains critical. That is why I am sincerely counting on a reversal of the pace of economies. In the meantime, the information gathered during the consultations was processed with the help of officials from the FPS Justice, the College of Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions. On this basis, priorities are currently defined on the basis of the input of the bodies themselves and in consultation with the colleges. It was to be hoped that, once the pace of savings was known, priority vacancies would be rapidly published, taking into account a longer-term vision. With regard to managers, there is a need for more flexibility in filling vacant posts. According to the body concerned, priority should be given to the recruitment of referenda and prosecutors' lawyers, on the one hand, and clerks and secretaries, on the other. For this reason, the review of managers should be considered, although it also raises the question whether, in the context of the new judicial landscape, managers do not constitute an obstacle to the management of the human resources of their bodies and should therefore perhaps be abolished or, at the very least, allow for greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u75	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u76	On 11 February, I called on the Minister of the Interior to raise his awareness of the lack of resources available to the security corps in the Nivelles-Genappe police area. In particular, I have made him aware of the lack of resources available to police officers. For example, with regard to bulletproof vests, they must draw lots to find out who will be able to wear them during the guards scheduled at the Palais de Justice. In his reply, the Minister of the Interior replied that the equipment of the police officers who provide security in the courthouses is the responsibility of the communal level, therefore the police zone, and not the federal level. I therefore turned to the communal authorities of Nivelles and in particular to his mayor, who returns the ball saying that the police officers responsible for maintaining law and order in the courthouses are not communal police officers but federal police officers. Since everyone turns the ball back, minister, I turn to you and therefore allow myself to ask you the following questions. Who is actually ultimately responsible for providing the equipment necessary to carry out the mission of these personnel? Do you find it normal that police officers who have to ensure order in a courthouse, and who are therefore exposed to certain risks, are doing their job under such conditions? What do you intend to do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Crusnière, there could be confusion. Your question apparently does not concern the police officers of the ICK, the intervention force of the Federal Police, but rather the security officers of the security force of the Ministry of Justice. At the time of the creation of the Justice Security Corps, it was felt that it was not necessary to provide bulletproof vests on an individual basis, but rather to consider these vests as collective tools. For the safety body, there was a gradual purchase of 300 bulletproof vests. A final order of 115 vests was placed fifteen days ago, so that all agents will be equipped on an individual basis. In Nivelles, for the five security officers, three jackets are currently planned. Under normal circumstances, this number is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Finally, we know who was competent in this matter. And I hope that as part of a future market, you will be able to complete that number. For five agents, there are only three bulletproof vests; it would obviously be interesting to complete later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic112x.u79	Question No 2904 by Mr Vandenput is considered withdrawn, since we have no news of his author.
