ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u1	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your patience. We could not start work immediately because of the lack of interpreters. That has been corrected by now. We welcome Secretary of State Francken to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, it was decided at the 2014 budgetary control stage and when the 2015 budget was drawn up that Fedasil would have to make two major savings. It's about 20 million euros in 2015 and another 20 million euros in 2016. As far as the 2015 budget is concerned, the savings measures mainly consist of the reduction of reception capacity. We are told by the press that other measures are also on the agenda. It is mainly about rationalisation, administrative simplification and the outsourcing of a number of tasks, such as night-time permanence. The consequences on the ground are apparently hard to digest, because there seem to be jobs on the rise. There have also been a number of trade union actions in the centers of Geldenaken, Broechem, Kapellen, Poelkapelle and the Klein Kastiltje. What activities do they want to continue to carry out themselves? You have already made a number of statements in the press, including on the use of private companies for night care, but the questions have been put a while ago. What do you intend to spend and to whom? Does this outsourcing only happen for budgetary reasons? Are private security companies really cheaper? Do you think it is justified that private guards carry out the permanence in asylum centres? Are they better placed than trained escorts to perform that task? Is only the budget taken into account? Will the center in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe close on 1 January 2016? How many asylum seekers are there now? What will happen to them and what will happen to the staff? Is there any intention of closing down other centres? I read in the press this morning that you do not know what to do with all illegal pickpocketers and criminals, because there is not enough reception capacity. Perhaps it would be premature to close down a number of centres. I am also told that there are already personnel problems in the centres. A number of places are not filled in for budgetary reasons. Will consideration be given to the requirement of the Common Trade Union Front to set up a special consultative committee in which staff and management can discuss the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as my colleague said, a work stoppage was already carried out at Fedasil on June 16, and this mobilization was followed by a day of action on June 23 in front of all the Fedasil centres. The main reason for these actions is the savings plan that is planned by the federal government, with Fedasil having to save 20 million out of a budget of 300 million. One of the routes that was envisaged to achieve these savings was to outsource certain services, such as catering or night care. According to several sources, you have since returned to your decision to outsource night care. This decision, if you confirm it to me today, reassures me somewhat because an outsourcing of this type of childcare service would, in my view, have posed a problem as to the quality of reception for residents; in fact, specific training has been organised for the agents responsible for this night reception. On the other hand, the decision to outsource the catering seems to be well maintained. Mr. Secretary of State, can you confirm the information that there will be no outsourcing of night care? If this is the case, why have the outsourcing of the catering business continued? What are the reasons why you want to make such a decision? This outsourcing of the catering business will result in job losses. Can you tell me how precisely, and if all the people who will be affected by this measure will be reclassified? I follow with my second question. Also within the framework of the social movements that have been organized in the various centres in Fedasil, several actors on the ground denounce the non-inclusion of workers' representatives in the negotiations. A large proportion of staff are concerned that measures taken to achieve savings may affect both the functioning of the centres and the status of the staff working there. Many workers in Fedasil centers report poor staff management and regret the lack of information in relation to your personnel plan. Mr Secretary of State, will the staff of these centres be reduced? Is it true that many workers in the Fedasil centres have no social protection? What is planned for pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u4	Mrs De Coninck, you say that I am dealing with pickpockets, but that there are not enough places and that I will have to close down fewer centres. However, you confuse different centres. On the one hand, there are open asylum centres, of which, in recent years, even during the previous government, to which you belonged, some have been closed because there is less influx of asylum seekers. I do not think it is efficient to keep open asylum centres open when there is less influx. I think that things always have to be aligned: if there is less inflow, fewer places are needed. On the other hand, there are closed centres. They are not intended for asylum seekers but for illegal residents. The Gaudi action, which we will come back to later, concerns the problem of illegal offenders: people who are staying here illegally and who are committing offences against public order, who are quick to commit thefts. I would like to say that at the moment we do not have enough places in the closed centres. I think we should keep things apart. You say that, on the one hand, I claim that there are too few places, while, on the other hand, I also close centres and could therefore simply keep those centres open. So that's about other places. This is very important in order to be able to conduct the debate fairly. In substance, I have always had the debate with the trade unions on the savings at Fedasil. It has been decided not to comment on Fedasil's suggestion to outsource the night surveillance. About ten days ago, we communicated very clearly to the trade unions that we will not do so. So we're not going to introduce it gradually, we're just not going to do it. In my view, the arguments put forward by the trade unions concerning the privatization of night guards are relevant. For me from the social sector, I think it's best to leave social workers in place for night surveillance. This task should not be entrusted to companies such as Group 4 Securitas. That was very clearly communicated and last Friday we passed it on to the trade unions. I must say that the trade unions have responded very positively. I hope that we can work on a positive story. The atmosphere has been a bit tense over the past few weeks. As far as catering is concerned, I do not agree with the views of some trade unionists. The catering has been outsourced by Croix-Rouge or other partners for years. Catering is already outsourced in some Fedasil centres. The committee will visit some of these centres and you have undoubtedly done a lot of groundwork. I know that a lot of Members of this House often come on the ground. I believe that the inhabitants themselves should be allowed to cook. That brings much more fun, better food and it's cheaper. Give the residents a budget with which they make purchases themselves. De facto, we see women in asylum centres gathering in small cooking units. Usually it's the women, sometimes it's men. That's not my choice, I'm just establishing it. Besides, if you're gonna look, you'll find that it's usually the women who do that. In the morning they go to the store to do shopping and afterwards they cook. Actually, that's a great story. They are also very satisfied with this. I therefore disagree with the principle that catering should not be outsourced and that everything should remain in the hands of the staff. I don't think that's Fedasil's core task. The night watch, that's something completely different. Leave that in the hands of the social assistants, of the people who know the residents. Let that happen in a pedagogical, socially responsible way. Cooking, however, is not a core task of Fedasil. That is the position I have defended and I stand by it. You asked another question about the pension. Mr Crusnière, the new staff framework will have to take account of budgetary restrictions and will, as planned, be subject to concerted action. The savings for Fedasil next year are 20 million euros. It's just another saving. A saving of €20 million is a substantial economy. But given the huge flow of asylum seekers that we currently know – we register about 100 applications a day – it is not rational to ask me to make such an economy at the level of Fedasil. I am confident that the government shares my view. Fedasil's budget largely depends on the flow of asylum seekers. That has always been the case, and it will continue to be so. It is clear that this flow is not predictable. In addition, as a result of the moratorium on recruitment, the Agency is currently understaffed, given the existing framework. That is why there are new recruitments for Fedasil, which are now running. New recruitments are under way. The staff of the Agency shall be employed as a contractor within the public service and shall enjoy all the social protection linked to that status, including pensions. Finally, the Agency introduced a dossier with a view to granting group insurance for the benefit of all contractual staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I had asked a number of specific questions, including the centre in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe. I understand that you say that not all centres have the same status. They have open and closed centres. I have two comments to make. First of all, you say there's an influx of a hundred people a day. The question then is whether the open centres should be closed if we want to promote individual reception in the future. Secondly, centres may also change their destination. I cannot estimate this because I do not know the infrastructure of the centres, but in some cases one can turn an open centre into a closed centre and vice versa, depending on the policies one wants to implement. Hence my reference to the Gaudi project, where illegal people are arrested. If they are to be deported or given an order to leave the country, it is possible to do so from the centres. I think that this is still better than what is going on in the newspapers, which may not be the case either: one would simply give people a paper, then they can go and stand wherever they want. I am very pleased that you have made the decision regarding night surveillance. I didn't ask any questions about catering myself. With my background in the social sector, I think you are right to say that it will be better for them to cook themselves, although there is also a coach and a coordinator to do so. I hope they'll teach the men how to cook.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am satisfied with the withdrawal of this decision and with the reverse of the outsourcing of the night reception. From the contacts we had in the field, it was indeed necessary to bring the special reception back to the centres, which must be received even at night. It was therefore important to leave it in the hands of professionals of this type of reception rather than outsource it. As far as catering is concerned, your answer leaves me with a mixed feeling. I share your view that it is very good that residents can cook themselves. This contributes to their integration and allows them to have an activity, an occupation. But the outsourcing of the catering industry is likely to lead to a reduction in this occupation, which is why I am concerned, in addition to the risk of a reduction in staff. I hear that social dialogue continues. You have recurring and visibly good contacts with the unions at the moment as the reverse has had a positive effect. However, actions are being taken. That is why I really invite you to continue this dialogue to ensure that all the activity covered by the Fedasil Centres continues. I commend the remarkable work of welcoming, listening and partnering all those people who work in these centres. I am also pleased to hear that recruitment is under way. For the time being, you're going around the various centres. You can see yourself on the ground that there is a pressing need in this area; it should be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u7	I absolutely share your reflection on the current situation. I am sure that we will find an appropriate solution. I will briefly address the question concerning Saint Peter's-Woluwe, Mrs De Coninck. I forgot to mention it there. In order to meet budgetary conditions, no additional closure of a reception centre is planned. It should also be stressed that the centre of St Peter's-Woluwe is not closed, but that the places are converted into buffer places and that part of the staff is transferred to other centres. Those decisions would normally take effect on 1 January 2016. Given the greatly increased influx of asylum seekers, this is not entirely certain at the moment. It's going that way, but we have to evaluate everything day by day. I can say no one will be fired. A solution was devised for every staff member of St. Peter's-Woluwe. There is now plenty of consultation on this. In any case, we try to respond to the concerns in a human way. Suppose that we would now decide to convert the places in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe into buffer places without reopening in the short term, despite the influx, then the reason is that the small shelter in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe per capita is very expensive. It is a reality that small centres per head or per inhabitant are a lot more expensive. But the decision is not final, let us be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, one must of course look at the specific situation, but I would nevertheless like to give this consideration. Often large centres per capita are in fact more expensive, if one calculates everything. After all, much more general matters need to be dealt with. Take your example of the food that needs to be prepared. In smaller centres it is easier to involve the people who live there for certain tasks. For example, it could be cheaper to work more with small and medium-sized centres instead of large ones. Of course, security is a different story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u9	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Commission's plan of action on the humanitarian drama events in the Mediterranean is also encouraging more economic migration and, above all, the development of vision on this issue. Migration is also an expression of the ambition to lead as good a life as possible and to take steps to find a place where one can develop one's talents. Of course, we cannot deny people that right. We also see that the labour market is becoming increasingly international. Properly deploying talents and creativity of newcomers creates innovation and prosperity. Economic migration is not the solution, but it can help people get jobs, eliminate labour shortages and thus contribute to economic growth and employment. It is therefore important to assess the opportunities and pursue a sustainable labour migration policy on a regular basis with sound labour market research. As there is free movement of persons and services in Europe, allowing EU citizens to work or provide services in Belgium, it is logical to make the most of intra-European labour migration. Labour migration from outside the EU can then be a key element. If people, for example from Africa, want a better life, they could be given the opportunity to work here for a number of months during the harvest period. In that short time they will make a reasonable profit and they will return to their country of origin. I know that the debate is a little more complicated, but I think that we should have that discussion in the long term. Europe also demands this. In what way do we want to achieve more economic migration, as Europe puts it? Will it be accessible to both high and low-skilled migrants? My main concern is to prevent a brain drain from being organised in the countries concerned in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u10	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, the debate on economic migration is very interesting, but, as you know, the sixth state reform has put the emphasis on this competence in the Länder. Who am I to get on the territory of the Länder? In my case, that would be rather unnatural, you know. The Länder determine what the bottleneck professions are and whether a work permit is delivered. That is therefore entirely within their competence. What do we do? You know what a permis unique is, because you were once Minister of Work. That directive had to be transposed two years ago. That is what we are working on right now. There is also an infringement procedure under way by the European Union. We're trying to avoid a fine. In recent weeks there have been intense meetings in my cabinet with all possible representatives of the Länder ministers. There was quite a lot of counselors there. There are apparently a lot of people in our country responsible for these issues. We're trying to get out. The contours are outlined and an agreement is within reach. The intention is that legal texts should now be adopted as soon as possible in order to avoid such a fine. In short, we are indeed coordinating, but the great effort must come from the Länder, since they have a great deal of competence for everything that has to do with labour migration since the sixth state reform. However, we still have the authority to screen for national security. I'm thinking of the criminal record, state security. If someone gets a work permit, we will carry out a screening to see if there are any problems with national security or public order. That's all. The effective delivery of the right of residence remains of course in the hands of the Foreign Affairs Office. Of course, everything in that connection is also my competence. Pre-examination and so on is now in the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u11	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm familiar with the jurisdictional debate. What I used to bump into as a minister was that people often got a work card based on employers' documents, which attracted them to work here in a bottleneck profession, but then the employers complained that they only worked for a week or two and then disappeared. Apparently, they don't check anymore. They have been given their work permit to work here, and with the current databases we would know relatively quickly whether they will continue to work or not, and whether the procedure is not being used improperly. I would advise you to consult with the Länder on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u12	Mr President, Secretary of State, in mid-June we heard that you decided to close the open return centre of Holsbeek in Flemish Brabant. The decision was made very quickly and without much consultation, I am told. The staff had to be transferred head-on. The people who stayed there were assigned a house. However, quite a lot of infrastructure investments have been made in Holsbeek's return centre, including for cameras. I have the following questions for you. What kind of houses do these families end up in? Who will guide them any further? What will happen to the staff in Holsbeek? Your policy paper says that you want to focus on a return policy. You will have to provide staff and resources for this. How do you intend to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u13	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, these families will be taken in FIT housing units and accompanied by coaches. This is happening already, by the way. The OTC staff were deployed in closed centres. At the moment there is an acute shortage of personnel in the closed centres, which could not guarantee safety. The pressure was high to reduce capacity in the centres significantly, making it very difficult to maintain forced return. This is why this operation was initiated and she also succeeded. All personnel remain in the service of the Foreign Affairs Department. Nobody loses their job because everyone got a new job. Many people from Holsbeek's OTC now have to work in Steenokkerzeel. That's a maximum of 12 kilometres from there, so that's not a major mobility disaster. I would also like to point out, Mrs De Coninck, that the OTC Holsbeek has had very low capacity utilisation in recent months. The target audience was shrinking and therefore this center was temporarily closed. The staff were temporarily deployed in a closed centre, where I think they are much more needed. This transfer was discussed with the trade unions on Monday after the decision had been taken on Saturday evening. Unfortunately, it was already in the paper that same Monday morning. I didn't let the papers know that. I think it's planned the way it's supposed to be. I have agreed with the trade unions that we will meet in the same evening in such a decision in the future. For them, that can happen even on a Saturday or Sunday night. If that is okay with them, it will happen in the future, so that nothing will appear in the newspaper before they have been able to discuss it with me. In this way this can be better and cleaner, because it is always annoying to hear something first through the newspaper. I agree with them very much in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u14	You certainly learned something, Mr Francken. You always have to do that by the end of the day, and the weekends are the most dangerous period. If I understand correctly, Holsbeek is still in portfolio. There have been some infrastructure projects there. I think you'll have to make sure this building isn't destroyed. In the event of a possible increase in the number of asylum seekers, you may need it again. Many people, especially employees, are wondering whether the thousands of euros invested will now be lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u15	You're right about that. The building is fully owned by the Government of the Buildings and is therefore monitored. It is also immediately completely closed to avoid vandalism. We have a contract with the Government of the Buildings to counter vandalism, which is why there are patrols and such. So that's normally fine. I also had a conversation with the mayor of Holsbeek today. So we do play briefly on the ball. However, no decision has yet been taken on what will happen to Holsbeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that, for some time now, many European Union nationals have been issued orders to leave Belgian territory. Mr Secretary of State, could you please clarify whether forced implementation of these orders to leave the territory has been carried out and whether European Union nationals have actually been forcibly expelled from Belgian territory? If so, how many people are they (for the last three years) and what is their nationality? If so, have any detentions been carried out in the context of this expulsion procedure (in closed or other centres)? For what reasons (legal or political) have these persons been expelled?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u17	Mr President, Mr Hellings, honourable Member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Directive 2004/38 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States specifies that Union citizens and members of their families have a right of residence as long as they meet the conditions laid down in that Directive. In case of doubt, a Member State may verify whether a citizen of the Union who is staying in its territory still fulfils these conditions. It may terminate the residence of the Union citizen if the Union citizen no longer fulfils these conditions. In this case, the citizen of the European Union shall be notified of a decision terminating the right of residence for more than three months with an order to leave the territory. Pursuant to rule 122 of the Rules of the House, I cannot share these statistics with you in an oral question. I would therefore ask you to address a written question on this subject, to which I will respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u18	Mr President, I reply to the Honourable Secretary of State that I am going to table a written question, the content of which he already knows. This question was filed in time non-suspecto. I have seen that colleagues have in the meantime introduced issues related to the expulsion of an imam of Dutch and Moroccan dual nationality. It goes without saying that I do not know the substance of the case – and fortunately indeed, whether it is the Rules of the House that prevent me from doing so or not – but it happens that more and more orders to leave the territory have been given. If, and this is understandable, a person must be punished because he or she commits acts in connection with, for example, radicalism or terrorism, he or she must be prosecuted by the judiciary, the police, the intelligence services. However, the law on residence in the territory, the right to provide an opportunity for a person to reside in that territory, should not be used to practice expeditious justice. Very serious acts can be committed or are in the process of being committed. It's up to the justice, the police, the state security and the army intelligence service to act, but not to your services. I would not want the right to stay in the territory to be denied on the pretext that a person is a danger. If that is the case, it must be followed by the police, the judiciary, the State Security, and no one else!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u19	I think there are questions on the subject. I would like to say that there are parliamentarians who always defend the authors and never the victims. We will have a debate tomorrow in Parliament during which we can address this issue. I would also like to draw your attention to a sentence in the text of the question that has been transmitted to me. This must be a mistake. I read: "For Benoit: can you read again this last question written by Stevens and that I don't understand very well..." I don't know who Stevens is. Maybe a civil servant. That would deserve an investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u20	You can start the witch hunt, if you wish! You're very good at that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, on 7 May 2015, the Council of State, for the third time, annulled the decision to include Albania on the list of safe countries of origin. On 15 May 2015, the Royal Decree of 11 May 2015 establishing the new list of safe countries was published in the Belgian Moniteur. No reference is made in the report to the King to the Council of State's ruling a few days earlier. The Government does not seem to take into account the opinion of the Council of State that the high level of protection granted to a nationality by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) is an important element to be taken into account in assessing the security of a State, that is, its security. That is why Albania cannot be included on such a list, according to the judges of the country's highest administrative court. Moreover, the rate of protection granted in 2014 for Albanian nationals is comparable to that of 2013 which led to the partial annulment of the Royal Decree. It is therefore difficult to understand why the government persists in systematically putting Albania on the list. Mr Secretary of State, what do you intend to do on this issue and how will the government comply with the jurisprudence of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u22	Dear colleague, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. On the one hand, the Government considered that Albania could again be included in the list of safe countries, taking into account the following: information on the situation on the spot and on the development of the country (the situation which has improved considerably in many areas), as well as the fact that many European Union countries also consider Albania to be a safe country of origin. We're not the only ones. On the other hand, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the law and in the European Directive, the Government considered that these elements had a greater weight than the rate of recognition over a given period, since this rate depends on many factors which are not necessarily representative of the general situation in the country of origin. I would like to remind you that the list of safe countries has been drawn up by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, following the advice of the CGRA. The CGRA, a fully independent and competent body for the processing of asylum applications, in its opinion delivered on 13 March 2015, after an in-depth examination of the situation in the country, considered that Albania meets the legal requirements for being considered a safe country of origin. The government followed this opinion. Given these factors, I do not believe that a review of the government's decision is now necessary. For your information, I would like to point out that the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, who decides in full independence on this matter, has decided not to apply, at least temporarily, the principle of a safe country of origin with regard to Albania. In concrete terms, this means that in case of refusal, a decision of refusal on the merits is taken and not a decision of refusal of consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u23	Secretary of State, I will make three reflections. Firstly, when we talk about Albania, we are obviously thinking of the people of the Roma minority in Albania, who are particularly ill-treated. It is often Roma from Albania who are welcomed to our home. Secondly, you say that the CGRA has given an opinion. I didn't understand the last part. Therefore, I will read the report carefully as regards the fact that Albania is on the list of safe countries but that, in implementing a decision, it may not be. Thirdly, with regard to the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if you look today at what it says about certain countries – I have done so recently for Saudi Arabia – you would sometimes be astonished at the point of view expressed on the situation. For example, for Saudi Arabia, no reference was made to the catastrophic human rights situation. However, stone-throwing is common there; there have been 62 public executions in the sabre. We should therefore be wary of the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have heard you correctly and I hope for you that your order will not be broken a second time before the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I have been chewing on the complexity of the imams' file in our country for a year. It is very difficult to see the trees through the forest. You have ensured that my question is particularly topical, should I hear it in the press today. Imam's thorough screening appears to be an important step in the fight against violent radicalisation and potential extremism in our country. Some imams preach Salafism, a very orthodox interpretation of the Qur'an. It is also seen as the prime breeding ground for violent radicalisation, to even acts of terrorism that are predefined in the name of Islam. Imams from Qatar and Saudi Arabia, for example, are screened thoroughly before they get a residence permit. This screening, as you said earlier this year, Mr Secretary of State, is carried out by the Security of the State, but an additional screening of the OCAD could also be appropriate. This is because the security of the State often lacks information about the person in question. In addition, you would also consider whether the military intelligence service, the General Intelligence and Security Service, could be involved in this screening in order to be able to act outside Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, what is the current state of play regarding the involvement of the OCAD in the screening of imams? Who is currently responsible for screening: State safety and/or OCAD and/or ADIV? What else do you hope to do in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u25	Both the State Safety, the OCAD and the ADIV shall carry out the screening. Indeed, following the foiled attacks in Verviers, I said that it would be good to include the OCAD and the ADIV in the screening of imams. As was said at the time, this is now happening in practice. To obtain the most accurate and complete picture of these imams, the input of these three services is requested. Imams known to one of these services will not have access to our territory. I just don't give them a residence permit. They apply for a work permit based on religious worshipers. In 2015 no one was refused until now. The number of applications for long stays of imams is currently very limited. For the Ramadan a number of temporary residence cards are always requested, to assist in the mosques in our country. This year, too, we see a decrease in the number of applications. Everyone's been screened and that was fine, those were good imams.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u26	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the less good imams that we could read about today. I can only conclude that it is very encouraging that the Security of the State, the OCAD and the ADIV have joined forces to properly screen and closely monitor those who are supposed to be religious examples for a very large population of our nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, since 1991, many associations active in helping migrants have received funding from the Immigrant Policy Incentive Fund (FIPI). As a result of the summer 2014 budgetary control, the EUR 1.6 million federal aid to this fund was simply abolished. At the time, during the budgetary debates, the government had justified this decision by transferring powers to federated entities since the sixth reform of the State. This decision is challenging because the regulations and policies on asylum, migration and equal opportunities are still federal responsibilities. According to a group of ASBLs affected by this decision, this decision implies, inter alia, that more than 1,600 people will no longer receive language assistance, 1,300 people will no longer receive support to live with families, 1,500 people will no longer have access to federal museums, 500 refugees will no longer be supported in their family reunification procedures, 105 women victims or at risk of genital mutilation and other violence will no longer receive the necessary assistance. Therefore, Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. You have been questioned by this collective of associations on this subject. What answers are you going to give them? Do you intend to refinance the FIPI in line with what it benefited a few years ago, in order to enable this fund to (re)finance projects aimed at ensuring social peace and respect for the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with the sixth reform of the State, certain competences related more or less directly to asylum and migration have been transferred to the Regions and Communities. A transfer of powers could not be thought of without the transfer of the necessary funding for their exercise, it was also decided that the Immigrant Policy Incentive Fund (better known as FIPI) would now be entirely allocated to projects carried out at the level of the federated entities and that, therefore, there would be no more calls for projects at the federal level. This logic is respectable in the interests of coherence of political action in favour of social integration. However, it should not be forgotten that some projects funded so far by this fund - the support of applicants in their procedures, support services as varied as language courses, support for family life, access to culture through federal museums, protection and assistance in the context of female genital mutilation, to name but a few - remain relevant and within the federal jurisdiction. In doing so, they also participate in effectively meeting your goal of greater integration of targeted populations. For most of them, these services would find it difficult to integrate into regional or community arrangements. However, their usefulness is no longer to be demonstrated and their sustainability must be guaranteed, without even addressing the issue of the 29 jobs they represent. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me what budgetary arrangements have been made to ensure the continuity of the service rendered by the associations now benefiting from FIPI resources? When funding terms have been reached, how do you intend to finance these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until 1 January 2015, the FIPI was managed by the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism, the competence and financial assistance having been transferred to the Communities during the sixth reform of the State to which you have, moreover, collaborated. The selection and financing of projects under this fund is their sole responsibility. I am convinced that it is desirable for the Communities and the Regions to exercise maximum powers. You will understand, therefore, that it is not my intention to transfer this jurisdiction again to the federal level. In the context of the sixth state reform and following the regionalisation of the resources for the FIPI, there will be no more projects according to the formula that existed until 2014. The Communities and the Regions inherited all the powers on the means transferred from 1 January 2015. The Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities will no longer perform any function in the new operation, but will remain responsible until 30 June 2016 for the processing of cases relating to projects launched in 2014 and before (monitoring and financial control of projects, payment of instalments, etc.).).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, I remember discussions, interminable in fact, of resolutions passed two and three years ago in the Senate on everything the Belgian State can do to combat violence against women and in particular female genital mutilation. The resolution called on the government to act. Today, you refer the hot potato, for example on this specific issue, to the Communities. I'm not without...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u32	In the Senate, when he still had power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u34	Yes, that's to be noted. It is quite contradictory to the idea of transferring everything to the Communities and the Regions. In any case, I understand that you have made a very clear political choice. Nevertheless, the matters managed by this fund previously remain federal, these are the matters you are exercising today and you are still federal secretary of state. The associations that were doing an excellent job now have a clear answer and will know how to dance now, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u35	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Of course, this is not a re-transfer of powers since, indeed, this transfer was relevant within the federated entities. But I am thinking of certain services, linked to your federal jurisdiction, that will not be able to find their place in the federated entities. It is regrettable that we do not take this issue into account and tell them today that they will no longer have funding when they are doing a remarkable job. I say again, that represents 29 jobs. This is a very unfortunate position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, a while ago the leader of the N-VA made a statement in plenary that there was a new influx of asylum seekers and that you asked the government to release two thousand reception points in asylum centres. When we look at the figures of the inflow and of the applications, we find that there is indeed a need for additional reception places. This is not just the case in Belgium, but in all European countries. I know that this is the subject of consultation at European level. The number of applications increased by 60% compared to 2014. In this way, Belgium will again reach the 2011 level. You ask for more beds and that is translated into a kind of vigilance policy. You're also asking for more resources. Additional staff must be provided to process the applications and, of course, to take care of the asylum seekers or to take care of them, depending on the amount of energy they want to put into them. You are right to do everything you can to avoid a second asylum crisis. However, we note that there are a number of savings measures, for EUR 20 million, and that there is a shortage of staff in the centres. You picked that up for a piece by shifting staff from the closed centers. The alert note you submitted to the Council of Ministers calls for additional resources. Could you give me some more information about that note? How is the demand for additional resources compatible with the savings of EUR 20 million at Fedasil? You have said a number of times that there will be no redundancies and no additional recruitment. If you haven't been fired, how are you going to save? Is it correct that you will not fire any full-time equivalent? You have already answered my question about the centre in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe. Is it an option to use the centre for undocumented families in Holsbeek for the reception of the increasing flow of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u37	Mr President, Secretary of State, on December 11, the government endorsed your savings plan, which includes a reduction in Fedasil's budget. This budgetary restriction has led to the closure of just over 1,200 reception places and the transformation of 845 structural places into buffer places – that is, places that will remain empty, but which can be used in the event of a reception crisis. Several actors in the field are currently expressing concern about the proper management of these buffer places. According to them, some of the actual places that were to become buffer places are not yet freed. Can you, Secretary of State, confirm this information to me? In addition, centre closures are also announced. This is the case in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, as was already mentioned. I am also thinking of the conversion of the 200 actual places into buffer places within the Petit-Château. Can you confirm to me that these measures will have no impact on employment? Are you committed to reclassifying the personnel involved within the Fedasil structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u38	I think I have already answered many of these questions, but well. Mrs De Coninck, I did not say that there are no additional recruitments. I said that there are new recruitments at Fedasil. Either I misunderstood you or you misunderstood me. In the first four months of 2015, the average number of asylum applications was 1 280. In May, the number rose to 1 709 and in June to 2 289. In the first weeks of July there is a persistently increased inflow. Last week, the second week of July, we had the highest recorded number of asylum applications in one week, almost 600. That is why, together with the asylum services, I have taken preparatory measures to deal with this persistently increased influx. Through my vigilance note, on the one hand, I informed the partners within the government about the measures taken on their own budget and, on the other hand, I made some proposals that are necessary if the influx in the rest of the year remains at the level of June 2015. Part of these measures require an additional budget. The government is now considering what measures can be taken and what resources can be made available. I can announce that Fedasil will start activating the 2,000 buffer sites, so that they will be operational when the regular reception network is full. This is expected at this rate by the end of September. In addition, we are looking with the Foreign Affairs Office and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless at how we can increase the number of decisions during this peak period, so as to ensure an increased outflow from the reception network. The outflow is at least as important. You know that every euro invested in staff for asylum services means EUR 10 that we should not spend on reception. Reception is much more expensive than making decisions quickly. The decision to save 20 million was taken by the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2014. At that time, there was still a decline in capacity utilisation and the reduction of reception capacity was appropriate. Recently there has been a sharp increase in influx, which, of course, completely changes the context. In order to respond quickly to changing capacity utilisation rates, buffer sites have been created in recent months, places that are temporarily not used but which can be ready for use again in the short term. In this way, an increased inflow can be quickly absorbed. Fedasil will do everything in its power to transfer existing staff to unoccupied functions resulting from the recruitment stop. The closure of reception centres is not planned. As far as the reception centre of St. Peter's-Woluwe is concerned, part of the capacity will be used as a buffer site. When the buffer spaces open, St. Peter's-Woluwe will reopen. The Foreign Affairs Office will re-use the center in Holsbeek itself once the staff have been recruited for optimum use of the closed centers. As I have just said, we are looking at what we can do with Holsbeek with the services. A decision will be taken in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would also have asked you to receive that alert note. Can we know what's in there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u40	That note is included in the budget conclave. As long as this isn't approved, we're not gonna hand it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u41	So it's another begging note?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u42	You may call it that, but I shall stick to a watchful note myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, I have not understood your answer to the staff of these buffer zones very well. These are places that remain accessible but are not used. What happens to staff who no longer need to be in the centre? What do we do with this staff while the place is transformed into a buffer rather than an actual place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u44	The buffers already existed. The operation to reach 2,000 buffer places was launched a year and a half ago. This did not have a direct impact on staff. The recruitment freeze already existed and was not introduced by this government. If we have to open buffers, an optimalisation of the Fedasil network is also necessary in terms of personnel. But all of this is included in the budget conclave's note. Give us a few weeks to reach an agreement on this! It is clear that the government wants to do everything possible to avoid a new asylum crisis. We do not know at the moment. Everyone is given a place but we must do everything we can to avoid a crisis in this area because such a situation is really not human.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in an open letter published on the website of the newspaper Le Monde of 3 July last, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange applies to France for asylum by addressing directly to the French Head of State. His text states: "My life is in danger today, Mr. President, and my physical and psychological integrity is... threatened. (...) Only France is now in a position to provide me with the necessary protection against (...) the political persecutions that I am facing today." Immediately after the publication of this open letter, François Hollande indicated that he would refuse this asylum application. Indeed, it is he who is competent in France to possibly grant political asylum. The other well-known whistleblower, Edward Snowden, is in a similar situation and is now a refugee, I would say, in Russia, a country where respect for human rights is more than random. Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. If Julian Assange and/or Edward Snowden were to apply for political asylum in Belgium, even if this procedure obviously followed extremely strict rules, would you a priori be in favour of this application? At the European Councils in which you participated, has the issue of the coordinated reception of these two whistleblowers in one or more European Union countries, as a political refugee, already been addressed? What is generally the policy followed by refugee authorities when they are confronted with whistleblower cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u46	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons who first examines individual asylum applications. This body carries out its mission independently. As an executive and legislative power, we cannot intervene in this process. Monitoring of the manner in which the CGRA examines asylum applications and the conformity of this examination with European and international law, law and standards is carried out by an independent court, the Foreign Litigation Council. The legal framework within which the CGRA operates consists mainly of the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, as well as several European Union texts and Belgian legal provisions. The Act of 15 December 1980 on Access, Residence, Settlement and Deportation of Aliens contains provisions on both the status of refugees and the status of subsidiary protection. The Commissioner-General shall individually examine each request for international protection. It shall base its assessment on all the elements contained in the administrative file and take into account the actual situation in the country of origin, as it stands at the time of the decision. The Commissioner-General evaluates each request individually. Any decision shall be preceded by a detailed interview. I am therefore unable to answer your hypothetical question as to whether either Julian Assange or Edward Snowden would be granted asylum in Belgium if they applied for asylum. Since I took office, this item has never been on the agenda of the Justice and Home Affairs Council. The general guidelines are discussed. Individual files are generally not addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. If one day both Mr Snowden and Mr Assange want to apply, I hope the Commissioner can use Skype because we know they're stuck. I had a question about the policy generally followed. I heard that strict rules exist, fortunately. You have recalled them in detail and a personalized analysis of the file also exists. But I draw your attention, in your capacity as Secretary of State in charge of this type of case, to the fact that the number of whistleblowers will only increase over time. Today, many people report corruption in their country, environmental damage, climate change or privacy violations. People defending digital freedom are now in the countries of the North as well as in the countries of the South and are sometimes forced to apply for asylum. As a result, the CGRA Commissioner will be increasingly confronted with this type of request. I think we need to prepare for it. I'd like to see Belgium welcome Snowden, Assange and all the other South and North whistleblowers. Belgium had the tradition of doing so, in its time, by welcoming Victor Hugo, who was being pursued by Napoleon III or Karl Marx! This last comparison must not please you, so I stop there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau's 5654 has been converted into a written question. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5681 by Mrs Grovonius, who is not present. She didn't say anything either and didn't ask to turn her question over. I therefore consider her question withdrawn pursuant to Rule 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of July, shortly after the attack in France on 26 June near Lyon, the French press reported that this year France alone has denied access to the country to ten radical and hate-preaching imams. Since 2012, the total has been 40. This was reported by the French Government in the context of tackling radicalisation in the country. In view of these figures in France and the current situation in Belgium regarding radicalisation, I had a question for you, Mr Secretary of State, but I am glad you did not wait until I could ask that question. The answer was already in the press today. The residence permit of one hate-preaching imam in Liège has been revoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u50	That wouldn't have been true in the old days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u51	We have also read that you have two more hate preachers in your sights. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u52	Thank you for your words, Mr Metsu. I will give you additional information, because as I have read the messages, not all the information has yet been given. In examining an application for authorisation to stay for an imam, the Foreign Affairs Office works closely with the OCAD, the Military Intelligence Agency ADIV and the Security of the State. Security forces are screening the mosques for radical preachers. They do this not only in the mosques, but also outside it is a point of interest. It is an increasing phenomenon and therefore an area of attention of our security services. That makes sense, too. In other European countries it is no different. If a radical foreign imam was authorised to stay in Belgium, these services link back to the Foreign Affairs Office. At present, several files are being examined in order to take a possible removal measure. Five files and names of radical imams, who are not of Belgian nationality, were submitted by the Security of the State to the Department of Foreign Affairs. One imam, who has Dutch and Moroccan nationality, very recently, yesterday, was rescinded, by means of a royal expulsion order. That is a perfectly legal instrument that has been used for years, but for the first time when it comes to a radical imam. I made that decision on the basis of information obtained by the Security of the State, which showed that he is a danger to national security. However, this decision must still be served on the person concerned. The imam involved is known as a hate preacher in the environment of Verviers. He is very active in spreading propaganda of the salafistic ideas and supports, glorifies and openly calls for the armed jihad and terrorist attacks. He has active contacts within the radicalist environment, both in Belgium and abroad. The four other files are further examined by the Foreign Office. Where possible, they shall be submitted to the advisory committee. After that, we can also move on to the withdrawal of the residence in these files. These are two imams with Moroccan nationality, an Algerian and an Afghan. For the first time, this government takes the fight against terrorism, radicalisation and hate preachers very seriously. Tomorrow we'll discuss some draft laws. The debate will undoubtedly be furious. Honestly, I'm looking forward to it. Both the Minister of the Interior and myself are trying to take steps in our respective areas. At the same time, much is already possible within the current legislative framework. Our actions in recent weeks, such as withdrawing the right of residence of Syrian fighters who are still there, or withdrawing the residence permit of an imam who is staying here with his family, are legally perfectly possible in the context of the threat to national security. Based on solid information from our intelligence services, we can demonstrate this threat. There is a discussion about the fact that there has not yet been a final conviction. We also had this discussion in committee during the discussion of the draft law. I repeat my reply at the time: in some cases there is no final conviction, but there is enough information to know that there is an acute threat to national security. I'm declaring myself. At the moment, Syrian fighters are active. Last week there was a very interesting and very horrible video on the internet of al-Belgiki. At present there are many Belgian Syrian fighters, but also foreigners with a Belgian right of residence, active in Syria, who will not be definitively convicted in a court in Syria. We're sure of that. Let it be very clear that there is very solid information and that we are acting on the basis of a threat to national security. This is not unique! You may refer to the principles of the rule of law, but such a system exists in all Western countries. We are using the legal instruments that have been in place for years and have been in use for years. In this case, for the first time, it's about a radical hate preacher. On the question of whether this is justified, I believe that this is absolutely necessary, Mr Metsu. I wonder why this has not happened before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I can only repeat that last sentence. We have waited a long time for it, but it is an incredible scoop for our country that can only benefit state security. For me it is still very difficult to get a clear picture of how an imam is literally imported into our country. Apparently, the OCAD, the ADIV and the State Security are much better informed than we are, thank goodness. This is particularly encouraging, by the way. I have another question about the imam denied entry to the country. He has a Dutch-Moroccan nationality. This means that he will in fact be deported to the Netherlands, which of course is not very far. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you whether there is still a communication line with your colleague in the Netherlands. I assume, of course, that this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u54	About the story that the man would be Dutch, the man has become Dutch. He is Moroccan and married to a Dutch lady. He has become Dutch under Dutch nationality law, but that is their responsibility. How they write their nationality code is, of course, their responsibility. Last night, after signing the file, I telephoned my Dutch counterpart, the Dutch Secretary of State for Security and Justice, Klaas Dijkhoff. Of course, I shouldn't hide the fact that this man wasn't particularly excited. If I were to receive such a phone announcing that within 30 days someone would be sent to us who preaches hatred and poisons the spirits of our young people, I would not be happy with that either. Of course, this is not nice to hear, but that is what the law says. The royal decree is currently before the King for signature. Then this KB will be served to him. He may appeal against this, but that appeal shall not be suspensive. Within a few days, he'll be given an order to leave the territory and then he'll have to leave the territory within 30 days. He can go back to the Netherlands or Morocco. Where he's going, of course, he can choose for himself. At least he can't go to our country. The Royal Decree prohibits access to Belgian territory for 10 years. That goes for clarity, not for his family, but for him. He can't enter Belgium for ten years. If he is caught, there will be further action. There are also penalties on the offense. There's contact with my Dutch colleague. The file's been delivered to them, too. I understand that, in the Netherlands, the debate on what to do with him is very fierce at the moment. That's probably gonna take a few more days. That does not alter the fact that, according to Belgian legislation, I was able to do so. That is why I have done so very consciously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we heard from the press that with the greatest secrecy and with the support of the Belgian Government, a group of 244 Syrians could safely flee to our country. The humanitarian operation was coordinated by you and was supported by the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders. The government took on the fate of the group after an action group had launched a call in Belgium. At the press conference it sounded that the 244 people were not selected just because they are Christians, but the fact that they are Christians is the determining factor for their vulnerability in the Syrian conflict. For the record, I support this operation. It shows that the necessary tools and opportunities must be developed to bring people in need to our country, not only to our country but to many European countries. However, it must not be limited to this action. Humanitarian visas could also be used to make families of Syrians who have been staying here for some time. We would regret it, should it remain in this one action. Then, of course, one can speak of arbitrariness. So I have a few questions. Are you planning such rescue operations in the future or is this a one-off action? Can the humanitarian visas be used to make Syrians' families stay here for some time? That doesn't mean that people have to risk their lives at sea to come here and apply. In the meantime, I believe that there are some more modern means of submitting applications. If the answer is negative, the people must not be removed from the territory. On the basis of which criteria will the question of one action group be addressed? Can other action groups also ask a question for other conflict areas or is it limited to Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, although the subject has already been discussed at the plenary session on 9 July, I still have a number of questions about the rescue of 244 Christians from Aleppo and, above all, about the future prospects for this type of operation. In any case, this operation is unseen, almost unique, and raises a lot of questions. Let me be clear, I would like to congratulate you, because any human life that we can save from hell in Syria is a victory. However, I have great difficulty with the fact that apparently the Christian religion in this case has been the criterion to save those people from Aleppo, as if the Kurds and Shiites were not under the same heavy fire. I do not think it is a good idea to want to save only Christians and not set up such operations for other populations. Based on what criteria have these people been selected? These are Christians, but there are over 244 Christians in Aleppo. Why was it chosen exclusively for Christians? Do you think that's relevant? In fact, the idea is wrong that Christians would be persecuted more than others. Shiites and Kurds are taken in by IS or Daesh, but Sunnis are also under fire. Moreover, the Assad regime is dropping barrel bombs on entire population districts, and certainly not just on Christians. Do you recognize that the choice for Christians can polarize imagery? What impression does that give? You must also consider that question. Apparently, the whole operation was set up on the initiative of an action group. That sounds very vague, an action group. There are a number of famous Flemings, who then decide to save some Christians from the hell of Aleppo, they go to the government and the government answers that question. Not for me, but will that action group make any other proposals? Can people in our country form such an action group and address such a question to the Belgian Government? On what basis are these questions addressed? Have you been asked by other action groups to set up rescue operations of this kind? Is this a one-time thing? Will you launch a similar rescue operation in Syria, or will it remain so? What was the role of Belgian institutions or officials in this rescue operation? I still have a few questions that weren't passed on. Has there been any kind of military input? We have read in the press that these people have come from Aleppo to the border with Lebanon on their own. One may wonder why not everyone goes to the Lebanon border on their own to escape the horror of war. What support have they had? Was there a military input? Did people get paid? Were there any human smugglers being paid, or intermediates? If so, who? Is it then the Belgian State that has paid? How much? Can we know that? It would be tax money after all. Finally, I would also like to ask you about a more structural policy, a policy on humanitarian visas or on humanitarian entry gates tout court, where people are actually brought to our country, possibly temporarily. I believe that so much more can be done in a structural way. This should not depend on action groups, but it can be a question of the people, of Parliament. Then let us not distinguish by religion. I do not want to tell my grandchildren later that some people from Syria were saved on the basis of their Christian religion and that this was apparently the criterion. I think this is weird. This whole operation deserves congratulations, of course, because it concerns human lives, but it also raises many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u57	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Belgian Government has indeed rescued some 250 Syrian Christians from the besieged Syrian city of Aleppo. I believe that the N-VA Group, and I hope many other groups, can only welcome this action. This proves once again that you and this federal government are taking responsibility for asylum and migration, and in this case in particular for asylum. It goes without saying that Belgium, a small country, will not solve the global refugee crisis alone. I believe that we are setting an example here, again, in Europe. Every saved life is a victory, regardless of the religion of the saved life. We were therefore surprised that there was criticism from certain organisations, and even from certain political parties, of this rescue effort. Apparently, it's never good. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions for you. How do you respond to Brotherly Delen's criticism that saving 250 Christians would be contrary to the Refugee Convention? Is that group being favored? Actually, it's weird asking that question. I think it is a rhetorical question, but I would like to know your position on the matter. Some critics say, even more cynically, that with this action you would be playing into the hands of the organization IS. What's your reaction to that? Those critics even argue that such an operation threatens to legitimise the regime of Assad. Are there other countries that are making similar efforts? What were the reactions you received after this initiative in general? Were they in line with your expectations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u58	Secretary of State, the press has echoed the arrival of 244 Christians in Belgium in recent months from the Syrian city of Aleppo, which, before the beginning of the conflict, had 160,000 Christians per 150,000 at present. Indeed, the operation initiated by a group of 25 people and supported by the federal government, began last May and ended last week, as the group's spokespersons, former diplomat Mark Geleyn and professor of KUL Peter Adriaensensens, indicated last Wednesday at a press conference where you were present with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders. These Syrians, mainly families and vulnerable people selected by the action group, initially left their city to return to Lebanon, where they were taken care of by the Belgian Embassy in Beirut. From there, they joined our country. After being welcomed by members of the action group, the 244 Syrians have been taken over by the reception services of asylum seekers and, in your words, will follow the traditional procedure as well as the integration route specific to the Region where they will be hosted. In the future, according to Mr Reynders, your Government is fully prepared to consider other applications such as this one, regardless of the origin or belief of the applicant recalling that Belgium is currently hosting 5,500 Syrian refugees. Secretary of State, I have a number of questions. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative. This is an exceptional response to an exceptional situation in Syria. In the face of exceptional situations, will you maintain, as Mr Reynders says, exceptional answers? I am thinking in particular of the tragic situation in Africa, with the European Union failing to agree on the answers to be given. Are you going to act in the same way too? I also agree with Mr De Vriendt's reservations about the criteria which have prevailed in the choice to respond favourably to this request. In the same way, regarding the action group, how were you put in contact with it and what decided you to respond favourably to its request? On the question of means, have any other means been released since it is true that this is a very large-scale operation? More specifically on the budget, do you have available places for these relocations knowing that of the 300 reception places planned for 2015, 225 have been reserved for Syrians and Iraqis and that the remaining 75 places are for Congolese refugees? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u59	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the support for this operation from various groups, including the opposition. You said you support this operation, Mrs. De Coninck. There were a number of questions, which are logical and which certain NGOs and journalists have also asked themselves in recent days. In general, I note support for this operation. It was not easy to reach this decision. The answer is fairly comprehensive, but I would like to respond to all the points. A number of opinion papers have also been published on this subject, a number of very sharp and somewhat cynical pieces in my view. I would like to take the opportunity today to give my view on this. We have acted in this dossier on the basis of a specific question for a specific group of people who were in an acute emergency. I have had the situation analysed, both by the experts in my own administrations and by the security services of this country. On the basis of this information, I have decided to take action. This operation has now been completed and will not be further extended for this particular group. If new questions arise in the future, they will be examined and assessed individually and on a case-by-case basis. As I said, on the one hand, we are already making very extensive efforts for the Syrians. Since the start of the conflict, 5 500 Syrians have been granted protection status. So it is not 5 500 asylum seekers from Syria, Mr Kir, but 5 500 recognised refugees. The number of Syrian asylum applications in our country has clearly increased in recent months. During the first half of this year, my services have already registered over 1 100 Syrian asylum applications. This year alone, we are offering 550 relocations, including 475 for Syrian refugees. We will also make a similar effort next year with regard to resettlement. That has not yet been approved, but that is my proposal to the government to provide 550 places for resettlement in 2016. I assume the government will agree with that. Mrs De Coninck, you ask on the basis of which criteria the group's question is addressed. I have received the people of this action group at their request in my cabinet, just as I receive numerous people from civil society every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u60	They came up with a specific question about a specific group that was in an acute emergency. I had the situation of the Christians in Aleppo examined by experts and then, in view of the seriousness of their situation, took action within my discretion as Secretary of State, following agreement with our Foreign Minister and our Prime Minister. As was announced at the press conference on this subject, I will not go into detail about the way in which this group of about 250 people has been assembled, for the sake of the safety of those who have stayed behind and those who have helped this operation. You must imagine that you are involved in such an operation and are then left behind in Syria. If we were to announce who was part of this, these people would be under immense pressure, with all possible catastrophic consequences. I therefore hope that you will understand that I will not go into further detail. I can tell you that preference was given to the weakest in this group, first and foremost to families with young children, but also to single women, the elderly and the sick. The claim of some critics that it would only be about Syrian Christians from a very small, specific church, namely the maronite, is absolutely wrong. At least eight Christian tendencies are represented in the group of 244 people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made it clear at all times that these people are not saved because they are Christians, but because their religious background in this conflict, at their specific location, puts them in an extremely vulnerable position by Amnesty International last week, called the "Circle of Hell'. I note, however, that some critics, from almost cynical political correctness, are doing exactly what they wrongly blame me for. I didn't want to save these people just because they're Christians. It seems as if some are opposed to this operation, just because it concerns people from a certain community of faith. As members of this committee, you also know that our country has already provided more than 5 500 Syrians with protection since the start of the conflict. The vast majority of them, about 90%, are non-Christian. In addition, in 2015 alone, I will provide 475 relocations for Syrian refugees. These 250 Christians from Aleppo add to that. The vast majority of Syrian refugees in our country, in relation to the composition of Syrian society, are Muslims. For me, they are all equally welcome to give a new life here in all safety, regardless of their ethnic or religious background. I would also like to point out that the UN Refugee Organisation UNHCR, not an irrelevant player in this matter, has made it clear that there is no objection to them that this particular operation was only about Christians. That's very important, isn't it? I'm sure you've read this reaction too. It must also be clear that Christians are not the only vulnerable group in Syria. I know that, too. Where the situation of this Christian community in Aleppo is fundamentally different from that of other minorities, the fact is that they do not have their own militias to defend themselves. The old city centre where these people live is almost completely surrounded by extremist groups such as the al-Nusra Front. Where Muslims can still flee the city via area controlled by al-Nusra or IS, this is almost impossible for Christians. The only way out for them is a narrow corridor towards Lebanon. This escape route is at some points only a few hundred meters wide. According to information from various sources, this route also threatens to be completely closed. You will probably have followed this week's press articles as well. This would result in the Christians in Aleppo being completely trapped. That's why I've decided to act. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that no matter what I do, it will never be enough for some, but anyone who does nothing can do nothing wrong. It is they who do nothing that always have the greatest criticism. The criticism of Brotherly Sharing that saving 250 Christians would be contrary to the Refugee Treaty is clearly incorrect. Indeed, it would be contrary to the Treaty to favour members of a certain religious group when examining asylum applications in Belgium, but we do not do so under any circumstances. I mean the Commissioner-General, who is independent in dealing with asylum applications. That's out of the question. If you know the Commissioner-General a little bit, you will know that perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u61	Delivering visas to people in emergency situations falls entirely within the scope of the Refugee Convention. This is a purely discretionary power. I am always surprised how those people who shout loudly that the treaty is being reduced to a piece of paper do not seem to make any effort to actually read the document. Mrs Smeyers, some say that by saving 250 people, we would be playing into the hands of both the Assad regime and IS. Dear Members, think about it calmly. The Belgian Government saves 250 people whose lives are in acute danger, but this would be in the hands of the warring parties. I want to, but ça me dépasse. I would also like to make it very clear that, although for this group, the threat came first of all from extremist rebel groups, we have at no time relied on the horrific crimes of the Assad regime, let alone well-spoken. Meanwhile, Assad controls only 20% of Syrian territory and we are also dealing with the Caliphate of IS that gives the concept of barbarism a completely new meaning. This conflict is not a religious war, and our government is not on a crusade, don't worry. However, denying that religion plays an important role in this civil war and is often decisive for determining the vulnerability of refugees is a very cynical political correctness. Try explaining to a yezidi woman sold on the slave market that it would be unfair to save her because she happens to belong to a certain ethnic or religious group. Ms. Smeyers, Monsieur Kir, upon arrival in Belgium, all Syrians from this group have applied for asylum. They will follow the normal asylum procedure, they are already doing so, and there is therefore no advantage whatsoever, either in terms of reception or in terms of procedure. It is the standard procedure with the standard reception. Mrs Smeyers, I am very pleasantly surprised by the many warm reactions I received after this operation. Not only was I contacted by many ordinary citizens who support this action, but also many local authorities are once again very committed to receiving some refugee families. I believe that this is a good thing for social involvement in the whole refugee issue in general. The growing number of refugees, both within us and in the rest of Europe, is a reality. Belgium has always been a welcoming country and I am pleased to note that this is still the case. I believe that our society, taking our absorption capacity into account, of course, is a terrible word, but you know what I mean, it will always be willing to offer people in need a new safe home. I have also received numerous messages from employers who are offering to employ refugees. These are initiatives that I can only welcome, as I believe that work and active contributions to society are crucial factors for smooth integration. I have also noted with the refugees I was allowed to meet a very great willingness to get to work as quickly as possible and to do something back for the country that offered them a new home when they needed it most. On the questions relating to other action groups or only for Syria, I repeat that each question will be considered on a case-by-case basis. I'm coming to the humanitarian visa. I stress that my administration delivers humanitarian visas every day. It would therefore be completely incorrect to claim that no humanitarian visas are being issued today. That's not right, that's not right. Article 9 of the Aliens Act is applied every day. As regards the establishment of a structural programme on humanitarian visas, the experts in the administration have been carrying out research on this for months. I have also sat together with UNHCR and a number of civil society organisations, including refugee work in Flanders, to name but one. The drafting of a real programme seems very difficult in legal terms. Moreover, such a programme would have very limited added value to the already existing and well-functioning resettlement programme. However, within my discretionary powers as Secretary of State, I will look at every application and every case case on a case-by-case basis, just as I have done for the Aleppo group. The debate on humanitarian visas has been going on for months. Nothing has yet been decided, but the problem is that we have no legal prospect of working with quotas or with a legal framework. That's the hard part. All suggestions remain welcome. I come to the role of Belgian officials. Belgium no longer has diplomatic personnel in Syria. The Belgian Embassy in Beirut in Lebanon was involved in this operation, in the sense that they have issued a visa to travel to Belgium to these persons. This visa is also necessary to enter Lebanon. They already had this in the form of a certificate, stating that they had to register at the Belgian embassy in Lebanon. This allowed them to cross the border controls of the Lebanese between Syria and Lebanon. The border has been closed at the moment, I believe since January. Mrs Smeyers, you are asking whether other countries are making similar efforts. That's very important. I am looking at Mr Hollande's socialist France. France is undoubtedly the most important example. In 2014, a special programme was launched to enable persecuted Christians from Iraq to travel to Europe and apply for asylum. And again, I must not remind you that France is governed by the Parti Socialist. I will then come to the role and budget of the OCMWFs. Mr Kir, this humanitarian operation has nothing to do with the Belgian resettlement programme. These 250 Syrians are in addition to the 475 resettlement places that were offered in 2015 to Syrian refugees. These 244 people will follow a normal asylum procedure and will reside in the regular reception system. To this end, it should be noted that no additional budget will be required. You're asking me if CPAS and municipalities are involved in this initiative. Unlike the relocation program, here the CPAS were not directly associated. It is a pleasure for me to see how, following the announcement of this operation last week and this week too, many CPAS throughout the country volunteer to welcome and assist in the integration of these refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u62	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. Either I didn't hear it correctly, or I don't follow it very well, but I think very few groups here have said that this action wasn't okay. I think we have all said that we can support this action. I would also like to make this clear to Mrs Smeyers. We are, of course, concerned about the principle of equality. I also have the impression that you are reacting very much as if we have accused you of a crusade. We didn't say that. We have not said that we have problems with the fact that it is about Christians, unless I have misunderstood it. We do have another concern. We wonder what instrument you can create for Syrians who are already here, so that we may be able to bring their relatives who are in need here via humanitarian visas without risking their lives by crossing the country and crossing the Mediterranean. In this way, these families can be reunited via a temporary visa and we can save people. I stress this because I read an interview with a number of people working with refugees in the European magazine Politico last week. One of their comments was that there are many others among them, alongside many Syrians. According to them, control is often insufficient. People are encouraged to take risks and cross the Mediterranean. We rescue them from the sea, but they are now in Europe. If a different procedure were to be developed, it would also be easier to carry out identity or origin checks. Moreover, if people are not given residence status here, they must be repatriated. So the question is whether we can do something for family members of people who are already living here, who are in endangered areas. I hear you saying that there is a problem with quotas. I can understand why this is not legally clear. Perhaps we should take the lead in Europe and see if this can be regulated at European level? In Europe, quotas are also agreed on re-housing. I'm trying to be voluntaristic. I have two comments to make. We have already had a number of dossiers and questions, including what will be discussed in plenary tomorrow. You often use the argument of safety. That can be perfectly right, and then I won't make a problem of it. However, there must be some kind of transparency in this. You also understand that safety is a stretchable issue; it can go from a gas fine to a very serious crime, I am not saying that you said that. This was also the subject of discussion at the previous committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u63	One can always appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u64	In committee it was not so clear that one can appeal. Finally, it seems that the socialists are suddenly good, because you are using President Hollande as an example for giving Syrian Christians the opportunity to come to Europe. So we are getting better. There's something good about the socialists once. You said just now that it is never good enough and that there is always criticism. I recognize that from the past. I once told the N-VA that it is never good enough with regard to the work cheques for young people. So I recognize the feeling a little bit, and you are on the right track with such a reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, it remains unseen. You'll have to acknowledge that, too. Such an operation is particularly unique. There's a lot of fog going on. You may have had a lot of reactions, but so have I, from people who didn't understand it properly. They naturally welcome the saving of human lives, but do not understand why this kind of action only focuses on Christians, while in Syria everyone, Christians, Muslims and others, are trapped like rats. I have received many e-mails from citizens in our country who find it strange that the Belgian State is suddenly introducing that distinction in order to save lives. I have also thought a long time about the issue and I admit that I still have doubts. I congratulate you on the operation, but what if there were no Christians living in Aleppo? Would you have had that rescue operation carried out? Why do you distinguish by religion? Everyone in Syria is trapped like rats. I believe that the Belgian State should not make any distinction between religions, because every war fugitive is worth the same. Mr Luc Van der Kelen, a member of your group, stated very clearly in his opinion paper in De Morgen that the action group was aiming for a specific group, namely the Christians in Aleppo. He literally says that. The question has also been raised as to whether this can be done for a specific group. Of course, that's a vulnerable group, but not more vulnerable than any other. Every war fugitive counts equally. You say it's about the weakest. A resettlement is always about the weakest. Resettlement in cooperation with the UN Refugee Organisation is something else. These are people who are selected in refugee camps, not in the conflict zone itself but at the edge of the conflict zone. For our country we are talking about these 550 resettlements, which take place in cooperation with the UN Refugee Organisation. This is not the case here for the sake of clarity. It's an operation that stays shrouded in a fog curtain and keeps raising a lot of questions. I also hear that you will not expand the action unless there is a question from another action group. Why do you do that? Why don't you want to save more war refugees on your own? Isn't the conflict bad enough there? Right? Why does it end with a one-off action? I don't understand. This can be organized at an incredible speed, you have proven it yourself. Why isn't this extended? Why do we have to wait for an action group? You are announcing something new about this, in particular that in 2016 our country will reconstitute 550 war refugees. I am very disappointed that the government remains with that small number of ocharm 550 war refugees. In Syria, 4 million people are fleeing. Turkey catches more than 1 million people, Lebanon also catches more than 1 million people. We limit ourselves to 550 people. That is 0.005 % of the Belgian population. If there were war here in Europe, we would be happy if we were to be taken in. However, we are talking about ocharm a few hundred war refugees here. This is not just the case here, it is also the case in the rest of Europe. You're communicating about that, too, and rightly so. You also express your concern and your anger. The fact that Europe is bakkeleit about receiving 40 000 people from that hell in Syria, where 4 million people are fleeing, is not normal, is it not? We restrict ourselves to you announce it here again to only 550 war refugees in 2016. I find that very disappointing, very disappointing. I have also asked the question, which I admit has not been filed, whether there has been a military involvement at some level to get these people safely to the border with Lebanon? I do not think that is obvious. Has there been any input from intermediates? Was there a safe corridor built there? Did people get paid there? I can understand that you do not want, can and must release all the details, of course, but I believe that a little more information would not hurt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed not the right place and certainly not the right context for politics. Mrs De Coninck, if I had given the impression that I wanted to play out political contradictions here, I would like to refute that. I believe that everyone would want all Syrians to be saved. As with resolution, however, here too, the criticism is that it is never enough. Why the Christians? The detailed answer given by the Secretary of State shows that, on the basis of a very accurate assessment of the situation, which he has not only made but which he has been very well supported and after a thorough study, he has considered why it was precisely that minority, the Christians, who had to be saved, given the limited resources that Belgium has. It's never enough, just like with resettlement. It is never enough for us either, but we must be realistic. European solidarity is also needed here. France's doing its part. They are socialists and, if it is right, that may also be said, Mrs De Coninck. We're doing our part, too. Mr Secretary of State, you have explained very well and explained why you made this judgment. It's a judgment, not prejudice. In the meantime, I think this is clear. I also believe that it is very difficult to say, after your explanation, that you have violated the principle of equality in this matter with your worthy and very good decision to save these people, these Christians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u67	Mr Franken, thank you for this very long and very detailed answer. Whether in the Middle East, particularly Syria, Iraq or Africa, we face exceptional situations that require exceptional responses. I was one of those here, in committee, and sometimes in plenary, who came to question you and asked you to provide exceptional answers. Very often, you were behind your approach of saying that we work on a case-by-case basis and respond to each request. In this case, you have provided an exceptional response and it should be stressed. There are criticisms, I come back to it, but, despite everything, on the nature of the operation, it is to be welcomed that Belgium is able, at some point, to carry out operations to help people who are in great difficulty. In the future, however, it will have to be done with everyone in order to avoid giving the impression that one direction is given in relation to one group to the detriment of another. What is shocking, as you yourself said, is the feeling that is being spread today in our country that Belgium has chosen its side, that of Christians. We know that Syria needs unity and assembly above all, and we must avoid terms that can shock. When you answered us, you talked about extremely vulnerable situations. For example, if public opinion had been told that action had been taken to help Syrian citizens who were in extremely vulnerable situations, there could have been another reception among the population. Where I am in part reassured is that you have made it very clear that, in your leadership, there is no question of favouring one group or another. You also recalled a figure that must also reassure public opinion and objectiveize the situation: of the 5,500 Syrian political refugees, more than 90% are Muslim. I was very surprised because it's a change of course. I hope that by taking this turn, you won't take the Sarkozy turn too much. Indeed, the latter was the champion of operations. One time it was one; another time it was the other. Behind the idea that there are exceptional situations that deserve exceptional answers, there is relevance and coherence. Minister, I must admit that after that, I am waiting for you on other issues, not only in Syria but also in Africa. When we see what Europe is doing today as an answer, it is wind! It is said that we are going to make a great plan to help African refugees, but in reality we are hiding behind the refusal of a number of countries. On the other hand, when it comes to humiliating Greece and the Greek people, all means are used to achieve an objective. And as far as Africans are concerned, I can see that things are not moving in the same way. Perhaps caution should be exercised in the choice of words to explain these operations. Sometimes they can shock public opinion. In reality, Belgium is responding to all vulnerable groups in Syria. It is true that this operation may have given an erroneous feeling. Nevertheless, I will remain positive. It is an exceptional operation that must be replicated. To avoid the government, and to yourself, being in a bad position, I think you need to reassure all other groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u68	This is an interesting debate. I would like to add a few more elements. The introduction of the system of humanitarian visas will not prevent people from applying for asylum every day. Same for the settlement. Mr De Vriendt, you always use this 550 as a symbol. Those are peanuts. We need to have an intellectually honest debate. You know as well as I do that it's only a small part of the people who get protection every year. On average, a hundred people apply for asylum every day. So we can't just say that we have to do much more than the 550. We are in a very acute situation: through relocation through Europe we get at least 1 364 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece and every day there is a very much increased influx. We will have to open our buffer stations in September, and they will probably be full again by the autumn. So we have a very acute situation. Anyone who says that we must allow thousands of Syrian refugees to enter through resettlement is organising their own asylum crisis. During the asylum crisis in 2011, families with children were kicked out of Brussels at 10°C. You and I, too, I admit, were standing in the front row screaming that something like this was inhumane and that we had to intervene. So let us take certain precautions through that alert note and do everything we can to avoid a new crisis of reception. You're telling us now that we need to reset thousands of refugees. We can't handle that. An interesting idea is the system of sponsorships, as it exists in Germany. This system does not include refugees in the public administration's system. Family and friends catch them. The only problem is that this cannot be done on the basis of the reception law in international law. If they do apply for asylum, they are entitled to bed, bath and bread and a place in the shelter. That is the reality. Why isn't that the case in Germany? Because they have a dispersal plan there about the Länder. Every asylum seeker is spread out there. Why is the sponsorship there a success? Few people go to state institutions there, because that sponsorship makes them choose a family that signs the sponsorship. The asylum seekers do not want to be spread across states that are much further away, because in the end they will not be able to see their families. We can't do that in our little country. You know that well enough. That is the reality. That's the problem. I've given it a lot of thought with all the NGOs over the past few weeks. If you also have proposals and ideas, you are more than welcome. Secondly, you say that it is far too little, that it is a shame that we are doing so little, that there are 4 million refugees in Syria and that Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan receive so many million. I think that too is highly intellectually unfair. In the case of wars and conflicts, the neighbouring countries always receive most refugees. That was no different during World War I and World War II. If there is a major conflict, the neighbouring countries always receive most of the refugees. That is a purely natural process. When there's a war, people run to a neighbouring country. That's an intellectually unfair comparison. Those people have indeed fled to neighbouring countries. You say that of those 4 million refugees, 3.8 million must be received in Europe. That would not make sense, because most of these neighbouring countries are in UNHCR camps, 70% of which are paid with Western money. That's what I'd like to say. You say the West is looking the other way. The West doesn't look the other way at all. Every refugee received in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon is taken in camps of UNHCR, of the United Nations, for more than 70% financed by European countries, America, Canada and Australia, all Western countries. That is the reality. You'll have to say the same thing. The West doesn't look the other way at all. I think it is important for Europe to assume its responsibilities, but where is the responsibility of the Heads of Government of Africa and the Middle East? Why do we have to ship thousands of nautical miles from Zeebrugge to save people off the Libyan coast, while there is also the navy of Tunisia or Morocco, of countries with a stable, democratically elected government? That's weird. We have to sail thousands of nautical miles to pick people up when we don't see the other regimes. Same for the UNHCR camps. The only country making a substantial contribution to UNHCR for the reception of refugees is Qatar, 4%. For Syria, there was an international donor conference in March. Europe was by far the largest donor with more than 2 billion euros. Tell me again that the West is looking the other way. Also there, where were the rich oil states? Saudi Arabia caught 91 refugees last year. I don't think the border with Syria is a hundred kilometres away. With all due respect, it's a responsibility, but it's a shared responsibility. It is not just a responsibility of European leaders to say that we must take care of all refugees. That's bullshit. You know that as well as I do. It is also a responsibility of the Heads of Government of Africa, North Africa and the Middle East. If they do not assume their responsibilities, not only for the reception of refugees but also in the military conflicts that are going on there, there will be no solution in the short term. You're the defence specialist for your party and you're following geopolitics as well as I am, so you know this, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, I'd like to start with the last thing you said. I think that is a very bizarre reasoning. Of course, you are right to say that countries such as Saudi Arabia and other Arab and African countries are doing very little. But since when are we going to reflect on what dictatorships like Saudi Arabia do or not do to determine our own actions? We know that these countries are undemocratic and do not assume their responsibilities at humanitarian level in their region. I am not talking about the geopolitics of Saudi Arabia. But is this an argument for taking up only 550 refugees? Oh, no. I think that's a non-argument. I believe that Belgium and the European Union should apply different moral standards. We should not care about what Saudi Arabia does or does not do. It is true that there are 550 resettlements. People are also recognised as asylum seekers. These are two different groups. However, recognised refugees must first get here via the Mediterranean or the Balkan route. Resettlements are a safe route for those who want to flee the war. The UN Refugee Organisation organises this together with the countries that want to assume their responsibilities. Resettlements are particularly valuable in times of war. We are not talking about economic refugees, because we know that you are right to fear them: we cannot accept everyone. There must be no compromises for war refugees. You can imagine yourself in such a situation. The number of 550 people we offer a safe route is particularly embarrassing. Of course, people first flee to a neighbouring country. However, have you seen the circumstances in which those people in Lebanon and Turkey are in these camps? At a donor conference at the end of March, the UN Refugee Organisation asked $8 billion to take care of millions of war refugees from Syria. To this day, only 3.8 billion dollars have been deposited. There is a lack of funding to accommodate people in the most rudimentary circumstances. Of course we do not want to organise a reception crisis. You're using arguments that don't make sense. Is the war in Syria only six months or a year in progress? Organising shelter takes time. So we are not proposing to allow thousands of war refugees to enter tomorrow, but to be phased in. We should have planned this a year or two ago to make a serious effort and to organise reception capacity. So we do not want to do that overnight, because we do not have that capacity. That's right. However, one can plan, and I have heard no commitment from you to go to more reception capacity in the coming months, on the contrary. In 2016 you want to stay with the poor number of ocharm 550 war refugees. Don't get me wrong. That's not just your responsibility. I am aware of the malaise at European level. It is not even possible to reach an agreement on 40 000 refugees from war. Can we do more? Yes. You accuse the opposition of always sawing and complaining that it is not enough. That's right, Mr Secretary of State. In this case, it is not enough. Catching five hundred and fifty people from Syria is not enough. It's embarrassing, tout court. There's no excuse for that. I therefore call for more effort, Mr Secretary of State. Think of the First World War with the flow of millions of refugees that it triggered. Democracys, such as Belgium and other European countries, must assume their responsibilities. Surely we are not going to let it depend on Turkey and Lebanon to accommodate people in a UN camp in miserable conditions, with a UN that does not have the money to organize the shelter in a decent way. Our moral standards must be higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, it is reported that refugee work should save Flanders. Firstly, how much should refugee work save Flanders? Should this organisation save more than other reception partners? Is it true that refugee work has had to save more than half of Flanders in five years? What other organisations have had to make such savings? Secondly, is it true that Fedasil is not sending the correct profiles to Refugee Work Flanders? In particular, refugee work in Flanders should cover unaccompanied minors and asylum seekers with a medical profile in the individual reception. Refugee work Flanders has made investments and asked other asylum seekers to leave. Thirdly, is it true that it is a political choice to make refugee work in Flanders as small as possible? Do you still want to invest in a critical civil society, just as we have witnessed the biggest refugee crisis since World War II? You have just given recent figures on this. Fourthly, why do you demand, in the new reception model, that Refugee Work should transform Flanders 30% of its reception places into buffer places, whereas it is much more difficult for small-scale reception to organise buffer places? Fedasil must transform only 5% of its seats, the Red Cross and Caritas together 9% and the LOIS for asylum seekers 9%. Finally, what role do you see in the future for the small-scale reception of target groups in your policy? If small-scale reception is primarily intended for the reception of asylum seekers with a high risk of recognition, is there no longer any need for small-scale reception, as there is an influx of asylum seekers with a high risk of recognition, especially Syrians and Eritreans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u71	The talks are ongoing and I have a meeting tomorrow with Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen and Fedasil. So I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u72	Your answer was so short that I did not hear when this consultation would take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u73	There will be a meeting tomorrow with Refugee Work Flanders and the Fedasil Summit. I'll leave it at that. My answer is that the consultation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u74	In other words, the press reports are not yet final and the data can change?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u75	With every hundred extra refugees coming in a day, I can tell you that the data is changing very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u76	I have, of course, also asked you a number of questions about past decisions. Why wouldn't you be able to answer that? Let me give you some examples. My first question was about savings. If they're on the table again, the better. Is it true that Fedasil does not send the correct profiles to Refugee Work Flanders? So that is a question about the flow, to which I think you might be able to answer. With regard to the new reception model, the organisation Refugee Work Flanders is asked to convert 30% of its sites into buffer sites, while it is more difficult for small-scale reception initiatives such as Refugee Work Flanders to provide buffer places. That is an actual question about the past. It's about a new childcare model. Questions have just been asked about this new model and you have answered it. Then there is a question of principle. What role do you see for small-scale care? Today there is an influx of asylum seekers with a high risk of recognition, Syrians and Eritreans. In your new model, do you agree that these people, with a high chance of recognition, are best placed in small-scale care? I would have liked to have had an exchange of views with you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u77	You will have to ask these questions again after the recess, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, yesterday, at a press conference in Kortrijk, you announced the overall results of the Gaudi II action, an action against shoplifting and thefts committed by people who are illegally staying in our country. Just like her predecessor, Gaudi I, who took place during the period of the winter bargains, this action appears to be a success. The overall figures also indicate this. In total 520 people were intercepted, 1 in 3 were detained. Most interceptions took place in the larger cities, such as Antwerp and Brussels, but Leuven also participated. My questions are specifically about the beautiful city centre of Leuven. How many interceptions took place there? How many of the interceptors didn't have a valid residence permit in Leuven? What nationalities were we talking about? How many of the persons arrested without a residence permit were eligible for a possible removal from Belgian territory? How many people were removed from an EU country in the context of cooperation with Eurodac? How many of the thieves intercepted were sent to prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with the questions put by Mr Hufkens and Mr Leuven, who have been replaced by Antwerp. I must say to Mr De Vriendt that there is a point of this afternoon, namely that the Francken cabinet is working at an incredible pace, in the sense that the answers to my question yesterday were quite rightly underlined by the mayor of Antwerp with some pride and pride.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u80	Mr President, Mr Metsu, I have divided the figures for Antwerp according to nationality and what happened to them. I'll get them to you. Mrs Hufkens, I am still getting the figures for Leuven. Apparently, that's not in my attachments. I don't know what went wrong, but we're working on it. I'll try to hand them over to you during the meeting. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, I hope that your answer to this question will be as brief as your answer to Mr De Vriendt's question. My question concerns any new collective regulation, as we unfortunately had in the years 1999 and 2009. It was always one-off actions. They always promised it was the last time. They weren't unexpected. They were announced long in advance. In the years before, there were always few returns, after which the number of applications for residence and regularisation continued to increase remarkably. In short, foreigners received the message that in Belgium the holder also wins for residence permits. In February, you reported that the number of applications for regularisation has fallen sharply in recent years. Last year, for the first time, a decrease was observed and fewer than a thousand people were regularised. In your policy statement, you promised that you would apply clear and strict criteria for the regularisation of persons, namely the length of stay, the degree of integration and serious medical reasons. Mr Secretary of State, it is now mid 2015. Can you give us an update? Firstly, do you have any idea how many people have been regularised in the first half of this year on humanitarian grounds, i.e. on the basis of Article 9a? How do the figures relate to previous years? Secondly, what about the number of applications? Almost daily, and sometimes we hear that so far, there are people protesting at the doors of your cabinet, including the demand for a third collective regularisation action. Are you considering a regularization campaign of some kind? I hope you're not suffering from stockholm syndrome, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u82	During the first six months of 2015, 598 persons were authorised to reside on the basis of Article 9a of the Aliens Act. In 2014, there were 1 018, of which 453 for the first six months. The number is slightly higher this year than in the first half of last year. In the first six months of this year, the Foreign Affairs Office received 2,262 requests for regularisation on the basis of Article 9a. Last year there were 6 798 throughout the year and 3 824 in the first six months. We are going to apply from 3 824 applications based on Article 9a in the first half of 2014 to 2 262 in the first half of 2015. That's a very big drop. One of the reasons is that we now also have to pay for the submission of a regularisation application, EUR 225 per person. That will certainly have an impact. For some, it will be less interesting to apply for 9bis again and again if you have to pay EUR 225 each time. I also hear a lot of rumours in certain circles in certain cities, namely that I would plan a collective regularisation again in September. I can only say that I will implement the coalition agreement in a very secure manner. That literally says that there will be no collective regularization. With this, I take away all hope from anyone who's counting on it. There will be no collective regularization. It will be individualised on the basis of Article 9a, as it has done in the past and as I have done for 598 people in the first six months of this year. I'll keep doing that. There will be no collective regularization. I hope that once and for all, or at least at least before this legislature, this can be made clear to all NGOs, interest groups and collectives who say that there will be collective regulation. The need for regularisation should be addressed as much as possible by ensuring rapid procedures and correct return policies. The introduction of a new migration code and an efficient policy are crucial here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u83	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. It is a very positive trend that regularisation is becoming less and less the means of rescue for many migrants. The fact that 225 euros per person are to be paid could be a brake. However, I am even more convinced that the global, rigorous but just migration policy, which you continue and strengthen even more with clear criteria, is the main reason why the regularisation applications and consequently the regularisation decisions are falling. As far as the demand for a third collective adjustment action is concerned, I can only be pleased that you stand firm and act in full compliance with the coalition agreement. Clarity is also the most important feature of your policy. I'm glad you're not mastering stockholm syndrome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u84	Despite the Swedish coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic225x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 5793 will be converted into a written question.
