ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u1	Madam Minister, recently, Febeliec published a study comparing the cost of electricity purchased by Belgian industry with the cost to industries in our neighbours (France, Germany and the Netherlands). The results are particularly worrying since our industrialists are facing prices between 27% and 73% higher than those of our neighbours. This constitutes a competitive handicap that becomes insurmountable. There has also been a considerable deterioration compared to previous years. It should be recalled that, in a number of sectors, the cost of energy and, in particular, electricity is an essential element in setting the cost price of products. It is therefore about the competitiveness of our industries, both in external markets and in the internal market where they must remain competitive. Madam Minister, I know that it is your intention - as you have reminded me in committee recently - to put in place an energy pact with a long-term vision. We know that you will show conviction and will to bring to fruition your project, which our country urgently needs. Do you think that it will be possible to introduce into the energy pact an energy standard, namely a mechanism for regulating electricity prices which would be based on price developments in neighbouring countries and would prevent Belgian prices from changing beyond that? Is a catch-up possible? Do you think you can establish a dialogue with the Regions, which also contribute to setting the price of energy in order to make them aware of this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u2	My colleague, first of all, I would like to nuance the subject of the Deloitte study which was commissioned by the Febeliec. In fact, recently, CREG has also published a comparative study on energy prices. I intend to take a number of actions following the publication of PwC's comparative study of energy prices. The company chosen by CREG to carry out this study draws up four representative profiles of industrial consumers: three in electricity and one in gas, between Belgium and the four neighbouring countries Germany, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom. While I am pleased that the findings of the study indicate that the profile of industrial natural gas consumers analysed in Belgium benefits from the lowest cost of all the countries studied, including in the first quarter of 2015, the situation is more nuanced in terms of electricity consumption. Disparities are actually observed between regions in Belgium for certain profiles. The rest is the same in neighbouring countries, where certain consumer profiles can be double-impacted, such as in Germany or the United Kingdom. The findings of the study commissioned by CREG will have to be refined in order, in particular, to identify a number of elements which may be a source of concern for some important consumers found in Febeliec. The report is based on the consumption profile and I intend to ask for further analysis. Indeed, it seems necessary to preserve the competitiveness of our industry and our enterprises, that a more detailed sectoral analysis be carried out in order to have the tools to properly target possible corrective measures to come. It will therefore be necessary to assess the possible communication vessels for gas and electricity for certain actors active in these two markets. Finally, the variability and sensitivity of the different parameters over time will have to be identified. The decrease in one component cannot be offset by an increase in another component. In this way, the effect of a measure may be simulated and its useful effect appreciated, while excluding a possible threshold effect. In order to do so, I intend to have the most objective picture possible, in order to determine the most appropriate measures to meet the needs and realities of the various sectors, including the energy intensive industries. The federal government's commitment is to maintain the competitiveness of our industries and businesses, small, medium and large, in full cooperation with the federated entities, so that a coherent approach is ensured. The federal government therefore shares the concern expressed recently to re-create a competitive dynamic. This will be done in particular by means of measures to ensure that the different components of energy costs are not higher in Belgium than in our neighbours. The establishment of an energy standard based on the comparison of electricity prices in Belgium and on average in neighbouring countries for similar uses remains, of course, one of the objectives pursued by the current government. However, this issue can only be dealt with usefully if there is a clear vision, which I wish to have, as I have just explained. The issue of the energy standard is linked to the agenda of the discussions planned for the establishment of an energy pact, since the issue of energy prices is one of the main issues in any energy policy. Nevertheless, I am already moving forward on this issue in parallel with the development of the energy vision, in particular through a more precise analysis of the realities of the market. The implementation of such a standard has not yet been implemented. For reasons related to the European internal market, it seems difficult to regulate the prices of the electricity component itself. This price is set by the Central West Europe (CWE) market, i.e. at the international level. It is the result of the liberalisation of the energy sector and the respective levels of supply and demand in the markets. Governments and regulators can play a role in the other components of the final price, namely transport tariffs, distribution tariffs, including the social and environmental public service obligations attached to them, as well as the various fiscal or para-fiscal surcharges and, of course, taxation itself. For this, as you have pointed out, the regional authorities also have an important role to play and coordination between the different levels of power is therefore essential for the establishment of such an energy standard. This is why the Regions will be fully involved in the establishment of the energy pact but also in the reflection on the energy standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you. Indeed, as a result of the question I had written some time ago, I was able to read about the study of CREG that changed certain parameters of the Febeliec study. I take it that you are going to put in place a more precise sectoral analysis. I also note the federal State's concern to maintain and promote the competitiveness of our enterprises and, of course, the necessary rapprochement with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the E3G think tank, which specialises in environmental issues, urges energy ministers and the Commission to work together to set up coordinated electrical infrastructure. The idea of an electricity grid in the North Sea is one of the avenues for reflection. It would increase the potential for renewable energy use and interconnection. In addition, it would have positive effects in terms of energy security and combating climate change, says E3G. Marie Donnelly, Director of Energy at the Commission, believes that the network should be the priority during the Dutch presidency of the European Union in 2016. However, offshore wind companies are concerned about the lack of political will on the part of the Member States, which would prevent them from obtaining investments at the lowest possible rate. The companies concerned and other bodies, including E3G, have appealed to ten energy ministers, of whom you are, for the informal summit which was held in Luxembourg on 16 April. That's to tell you if my question is dated! Ministers should also determine a legal intergovernmental agreement, defining a common strategy on electricity in the North Sea. A multinational investment platform for the North Sea should also be established. It would enhance the visibility of pending projects, attract private and public investors and lower the cost of capital. Industry regrets that the Commission Communication on the Energy Union mentioned projects such as the Baltic Sea Energy Market Interconnection Plan, but not the North Sea power grid. Up to 10% of the electricity used in Europe could be generated by wind in the North Sea, but without interconnection between Ireland, the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, much of this energy would be lost. So I come to my questions. What was the content of your support for this project? What position and decision has the government taken in this regard? What decisions have been taken in this regard at the meeting on 16 April? Finally, what is the continuation of the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this letter was not discussed at the meeting on 16 April. As a result, no decision has been taken. Nevertheless, I have noted this letter and the willingness of its authors to speed up the installation of a network in the North Sea. I would like to recall that Belgium is one of the founding countries of the five-year-old North Seas Countries Offshore Grid Initiatives (NSCOGI), of which Belgium is President. This initiative was highlighted as one of the initiatives to follow at the informal Council meeting on 16 April 2015. We therefore continue to work on this initiative and look forward to investigating how we can take into account and implement the points put forward by the three authors of this letter. Indeed, the latter shows that there is a clear demand to move forward on the subject which is well in line with the Belgian presidency of this association.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u6	Minister, I'm not sure I understood you correctly. Indeed, you began your speech by saying that the subject had not been discussed to say, then, that the matter had been discussed at the meeting on 16 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u7	Sir, you confuse the initiative with the letter. The letter was not discussed and the initiative was supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u8	Belgium therefore supports the initiative. At the meeting of the 16th, was a decision made as to the continuation of the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u9	No decision was made as the letter was not discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u10	I'm not talking about the letter here anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u11	No decision has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u12	Not even on the rest of the calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u13	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the committee in early January you announced that the legislation relating to the status of the Interconnector would be adapted "at the beginning of the year". I therefore allow myself to return to you, now that we are beyond half the year, to know the terms of the changes that are – I suppose – now being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u15	Mr President, this is my answer. It is true that the amendment of Article 25 of the Gas Act has not yet been tabled in the House and that the adaptation of legislation relating to the status of the Interconnector UK remains necessary in order to comply with Directive 2009/73/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on common rules for the internal market in natural gas and which repeals an earlier directive dating from 2003. However, it should be pointed out that the UK Interconnector was able to form part of the certification procedure for the Gas Act and the 2009 Directive to which I referred, on the basis of the very provisions of this directive and the analyses carried out by the two regulators, the CREG and the Ofgem. Indeed, the respective certification applications in the United Kingdom and Belgium resulted in favourable decisions by the two regulators, namely on 11 July 2013 for CREG and on 22 May 2013 for Ofgem. In the context of the CREG decision of 11 July 2013 on Interconnector UK's application for certification, a number of elements had to be brought to the CREG by 3 March 2015 in order for a positive certification decision to be taken. These elements were not provided by Interconnector UK. The CERG has therefore reopened the certification procedure to carry out the necessary checks and inspections. The dossier will shortly be sent by CREG to the European Commission for its opinion. I invite you on this point to question the CREG if you would like more details. While the adaptation of Article 25 of the Gas Act remains necessary, this Article does not preclude a conditional favourable decision, since the certification procedure of Interconnector UK was completed in 2013, and now the certification procedure is reopened. The current Gas Act has therefore not impeded the application of Directive 2009 by the regulatory authority, the CREG. Therefore, for reasons of timing and consistency, the adaptation requires a substantial and joint work between CREG and DG Energy, this adaptation will be carried out before the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u16	Mr President, as a reply, I would simply like to recall the Minister's reply of 6 January 2015: "The adaptation of the relevant legislation will be carried out at the beginning of the year." We are at the end of June and the minister is now announcing it for the end of the year. It is once again a delay from what had been announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u17	Mr Nollet, you do notice a delay. But my answers always take into account the state of progress of work. I am not responsible for the advancement and lags in the work of independent institutions that are not directly under my authority. I am replying to you in the present state of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u18	I'll repeat the January response...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u19	At the time, it was true, today, it is no longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u20	"The adaptation of the relevant legislation will be carried out at the beginning of the year."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u21	Mr.President, Minister, the CREG published its estimate of the benefits from nuclear activities on March 12, 2015, more than three and a half months ago. You therefore have in your hands all the elements necessary to determine the nuclear rent on which the nuclear contribution will be cut. Three and a half months later, my first question is – I think it is legitimate – how much of the nuclear contribution you are now holding for the various years involved. My second question, Minister, is when you forwarded the results of the CREG analysis to your government colleagues. Did you wait until the budget conclave came to an end to do so? If so, why? If not, why has the government not changed its budget on this point? It is several hundred million euros of divergence that are at stake. Has the haste of this conclave, probably in connection with the federal will to have the regional entities make delicate decisions in the short term, influenced this "voluntary oblivion"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, during the debate on budgetary adjustment a few days ago in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, your colleague, Mr Hervé Jamar, said: "The consideration or not to be taken into account of the contribution to the distribution of the unavailability of the Doel 4 unit, the closure of which follows a sabotage act, must still be appreciated. Indeed, this is the first time that we have faced such a case. It is important to recall that usually only forced arrests found by AFCN are taken into account for the unavailability of a right to reduce the allocation contribution. That question should therefore be considered. Depending on the evolution of the discussions, some measures may need to be taken to adjust the Ways and Means budget." He added in plenary session "that it would be useless to reveal at a crucial point in the negotiations the figure that could be obtained. The sabotage of Doel 4 may pose a problem of interpretation. It is when the AFCN says "stop" that the calculation of the pension to be received can be called into question. Here we are facing some kind of force majeure. Has the instruction been completed? Who should bear the indirect cost of this sabotage? Is that part of the deal?" Madam Minister, it would be quite incredible if the Belgian government were to negotiate Doel 4's nuclear rent with Electrabel in the Doel 1 and 2 negotiation package. Do you confirm that the calculation of the Doel 4 pension is part of the ongoing deals with the operator? If the shutdown due to sabotage in the non-nuclear area of Doel 4 allows Electrabel to benefit from a reduction, what about the shutdowns for maintenance, work and recharging of the fuel? More generally, as far as the rent is concerned, you have entrusted Mr. Colmant with a mission. Can I ask if the CREG should provide the information so that it can complete it and carry out its task as an expert? How will things be organised so that what is announced today in the press can become a reality through its report?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u23	Mr. President, these are my answers. What would be the amount of the nuclear contribution retained for the various years concerned, in accordance with Article 170, § 1, of the Constitution, which recalls that no tax imposed for the benefit of the State can be established only by law? As recalled by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 18 July 2014, it is for the legislator to assess the contributory capacity of the liable parties in view of the advantageous situation which they were able to enjoy as a nuclear operator or as a company having a share in the industrial production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuel, as well as in view of the special and specific nature of the nuclear sector. Therefore, as soon as the legislator is better informed, it will be up to him to adopt a distribution contribution accordingly. I would remind you that CREG's calculations are aimed at trying to find out what the benefit of nuclear activity is. The height of the contribution, which is underlying the first calculations made by the CREG – with, between the two, the evaluation of the nuclear rent – if such a mechanism is maintained, will therefore, as I have explained many times, be discussed in your assembly. The nuclear benefits assessed by CREG should not be confused with the amount of the apportionment contribution to be included in the budget. The CREG estimated the amount of these profits derived from nuclear activity, the nuclear operators and companies with a share in the production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuel, and not the height of the nuclear rent or the amount of the apportionment contribution. It is up to the policy, and only to it, to determine the height of the allocation contribution in the light of this last study, which, among other things, constitutes an index of proportionality of the levy. The current inclusion in the budget was only an estimate that had been made before the profits from nuclear activity were re-evaluated by CREG. Indeed, the budget is a forecast of expenditure and revenue, and must remain so. This forecast must be adapted to the circumstances. As far as forecasting is concerned, therefore, it is not a matter of intentionally allowing the false idea that money has been lost to circulate. We assess the base of the levy, which remains to be determined, and then to be included in the budget as a forecast of return. On the question of the inclusion of Doel 4 in the safety decisions of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), due to purely objective elements, the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, which establishes AFCN, defines the concept of sabotage as follows. This refers to "any deliberate act directed against nuclear material in production, use, storage or transport, national or international nuclear facilities or transport, which could directly or indirectly endanger the health and safety of personnel, the population and the environment, through exposure to radiation or the emission of radioactive substances". It is therefore an act independent of the will of the operators and companies with a share in the production of Doel 4. This is therefore not equivalent at all to maintenance, work or a shutdown period for reloading fuel, all of which are part of the normal life of the plant, and as such do not constitute stoppages for safety or security reasons. In addition, AFCN, in a press release of 15 December 2014, noted this rather long but interesting element to be reproduced: "The operator Electrabel announces that the Doel 4 nuclear reactor will restart on 21 December 2014, after having been shut down for several months following the damage to the turbine. While the judicial investigation still needs to shed light on the person(s) responsible for the incident, AFCN imposes a series of complementary safety and security measures on all Belgian nuclear power plants. On August 5, 2014, the Doel 4 reactor automatically stopped following an oil loss at the steam turbine in the non-nuclear part of the plant. The investigation showed that the turbine oil tank had been completely emptied because of the manual opening of the escape line for the rapid transfer of oil to a reserve tank in the event of a fire. Since there appeared to be many indications that the conduct had been deliberately opened and without instructions, suspicions quickly arose of a malicious act. The Agency immediately imposed additional security measures to prevent a similar incident from reoccurring. One of these measures concerned the introduction of the "four eyes" principle, which provides that workers at the plant may operate in certain areas only in teams of two. Electrabel filed a complaint against x, with civil suit and the prosecution opened an investigation. Electrabel recently announced that the damaged turbine was almost completely repaired and was preparing to restart the unit. In the meantime, AFCN has reviewed the additional measures necessary to restart the reactor safely and has met with Electrabel for this purpose. The measures imposed by AFCN will be implemented in all Belgian nuclear power plants, both in Doel and Tihange. In concrete terms, the level of security will be raised through the installation of numerous additional cameras, the modification of the access badge system and the introduction of several other security measures. In addition, the "four eyes" principle has been optimized. In addition, AFCN also requires additional security measures, such as additional verifications of the proper configuration of backup equipment and backup circuits." It appears from this press release that if there was a malicious act, Electrabel filed a complaint against x, with a civil suit, and AFCN seized the security file. Both Electrabel and AFCN have been part of the procedures for sabotage and not just a voluntary decision to temporarily discontinue Doel 4. It is in the light of these elements that the question of whether or not to consider Doel 4 within the scope of the 2015 allocation base for 2014 is being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u24	Mr. Chairman, the minister did not answer me on one of the two specific questions I asked. I wanted to know when she had forwarded the results of the analyses to her colleagues for budgetary adjustment. Minister, I would like to put the question to you because you said that the estimates, the forecasts must be adjusted regularly. However, you received this document from CREG on 12 March, well before the budget conclave. When did you send it to the budget conclave?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u25	I have already answered the question by stating that the budget is a forecast and that we are in the process of re-evaluating, together with the department concerned, the base of the levy which is still to be determined and entered in the budget as a forecast of revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u26	This does not answer my question about the date on which you submitted the document. I am not asking you whether this is a forecast, as we know, and I take note of your answer. I ask you for a date – it's between January 1 and December 31...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u27	I answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u28	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u29	Mr President, we will read the minister's detailed answer in the record. However, Madam Minister, you said: "If such a mechanism, i.e. rent, is maintained, it will be debated in our assembly." The use of the conditional suggests that there is some doubt as to whether it will be retained. With regard to sabotage, I recall that it took place in a non-nuclear zone. I would have liked to know whether Electrabel, in this case, was assured in this regard. If so, there is no reason why a tow should be on Doel 1 and Doel 2 in the package. Finally, for the nuclear rent, the budget forecast is EUR 405 million. Do you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u30	I answered about the budget. With regard to your other question, I say that in view of the elements I have just outlined, whether or not Doel 4 is included in the scope of the 2015 allocation contribution base for 2014 is currently being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u31	As I understand it, for Mr. Colmant, I will have to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you several times about this issue of the closure of power generation units following the relevant reflection of the regulator who denounced the fact that producers who have doubts about the restart of their units announce closures and reserve the right to renounce them at any time. In order to avoid this pitfall, I was already questioning you on 18 November 2014 and you stated in your reply that a reflection on a system to support existing capabilities was under way in order to limit the number of unit closures and to ensure the country's supply capacity. Subsequently, you told me that you had instructed the Directorate-General for Energy to prepare a study on the various options for supporting existing production capacities, including through capacity mechanisms or capacity markets. You also announced that a study would also be undertaken by an external consultant to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the various options available in this area. An impact assessment will also have to be carried out, you said. On 6 January, I asked you to give me more information on the progress of this reflection and on the additional requirements that will be put forward in order to avoid such a situation, but you replied that you were not yet in a position to give me these elements. We agreed that I would come back to you in mid-February to obtain all the conclusions of these studies and the follow-up you have given to them. On this occasion, you told me that the reflection was still under way and that the CREG was responsible for sending you its vision by the end of March. You also announced that a proposal for a form of support to maintain the production stock until at least 2025 would shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers for an opinion. I was going back to the case at the end of March and you told me that the CREG was slightly late, that its proposals would finally arrive to you on April 15 and that – and I quote – "at that time, I will be able, with my administration, to propose the best options." Minister, we have been discussing this issue since you took office. It's easy time to land because some people like to imagine a new winter "under stress", which is neither your case nor mine. What is the vision of CREG? What are the agency's proposals? What kind of support did you put on the government table? What is your work schedule in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u33	Mr President, this is my answer. Consideration of a system of support for existing capacities is still under way. I have only just received the conclusions of the study commissioned from CREG. The public consultation carried out by CREG shows that, at present, opinions differ on the need for a CRM in Belgium as well as on the design to be used. Moreover, given the potential for market disruption and the high degree of interconnection between Belgium and neighbouring countries, the implementation of a CRM requires prior consultation with these countries. The establishment of such a mechanism must also be in line with the State aid guidelines published by the European Commission on 28 June 2014. If the design of a capacity market is imperfect, the creation of a capacity market alongside the energy market can create harmful interference between these two markets and disrupt the signal taken on the convenience market, generating a non-optimal use of existing capacity and interconnections. The cost of the system will then exceed the benefits that can be derived from it. Such a mechanism must therefore be well thought out. It is not created in a few months. If one considers the experiences of neighbouring countries, the establishment of a CRM often takes several years. For proof, in the delivery of this morning's Echo, I want an intervention from the CEO of Essent Belgium. According to him, the establishment of such a mechanism and the accompanying regulation should take about two years, according to RWE experts, and it is only then that it can be used to encourage market participants to invest in new plants. Once the investment decision is taken, it will take another two or three years, at best, to build these new capacities. This capacity market cannot be seen as a short-term solution to a security of supply problem. A capacity market must aim at ensuring sufficient long-term supply within a credible and sustainable market environment for investors. The CRM should support not only the generation of electricity, but also the necessary investments in demand management, even any form of flexibility for the need to balance the grid and compensate for the intermittent nature of renewable energies. I therefore continue to work actively with my administration to examine various possible avenues in this area. It is of course crucial that a long-term vision of the energy mix in a stable investment framework be established. In the shorter term, I intend to work already on the implementation of measures to improve the strategic reserve, which is an undeniable contribution to the security of supply of the market and which we will discuss later in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u34	Mr President, we have been busy with this issue since November, 18 November, to have today, in July, the answer that it will take a lot of time as long as it is put in place. What are we talking about? We're talking about CRM, a capability mechanism. As far as I was concerned, I asked for the various options that were possible. The study that was initiated had to include different options. The Minister's response, its first part, was devoted exclusively to CRM. I can see, at the turn of his answer, that there is much more critical distance than there was in the past, in relation to CRM. All right. I take note of this and agree with what is said. If there were to be CRM, it would take a lot of time to implement it. In the meantime, the plants are shutting down, in any case some of them. Electrabel, as well as others, but Electrabel mainly, play the yo-yo: I announce that I close power plants, and everything I do, I keep them open. You, for your part, still have nothing in place as a mechanism to limit the number of closures of power generation units. The next winter is coming. In February, you announced that proposals would be submitted "in the near future" to limit the number of closures of production units. Still nothing! This is the third case since the beginning of the committee in which there have been delays. But we have not finished the work of the committee, there will still be a lot of questions! The addition of delays will be heavy, especially as operators have fun. We're announcing closures, maintenances: we'll see later on in other questions. Minister, I invite you to pass on these studies to us so that we do not have to go after them ourselves as we have too often used to. Do not enter the institutional game, pass them on to us and check for options other than CRM, which seemed to be your priority choice but which I feel is being questioned today, which we can understand because of the problems that such a mechanism may pose. Can we have these studies very quickly? What other option do you consider from the moment the CRM is rescheduled in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u35	Je vais interroger la CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u36	Mr. Chair, bids for the 2015-2016 Strategic Reserve Call were expected by April 15. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about:- the overall volume of tenders received; - the distribution of this volume between production and demand flexibility; - the list of tenders per producer, production unit, volume concerned, availability schedule, possible other specification or condition; - the reassessment of the need made by Elia in accordance with what the company announced at its hearing in the Committee on the Economy on 24 March (I refer you to point 4 of its summary note circulated in committee); - the Minister's analysis of the situation; - any additional measures envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u37	Mr President, this issue dates back to April 15. I do not complain about that, but this wording is no longer relevant. I answer it as if it had been reformulated. Moreover, question No 5396 of 24 June 2015 also refers to this aspect of things. I will already touch on part of the answer I had reserved for it. Offers of between 1,200 and 2,000 megawatts were well received and analysed by Elia in connection with the establishment of the strategic reserve. The exact figure is 1,318.8 megawatts for the total bids received. Of these, only 800 were considered to be regular under the terms of reference and could therefore be retained. The reasons for the rejections concerned technical constraints of availability, legal obstacles such as suspensive conditions, price constraints subject to variations depending on external factors. The 800 megawatts are distributed as follows: 500 megawatts from the production sector and hence EDF, Luminus and Electrabel, and 300 megawatts from demand management, which is therefore the contribution of companies that are directly connected to the Elia network and who agree to interrupt their consumption at certain times to provide the strategic reserve. Although the quantities are significantly lower than expected, they already reflect an increasing trend. This is about the increased demand management role in the strategic reserve. Of course, the amounts are still small in terms of the production sector, but the movement is irreversible and is accentuated by the provision we have voted to transpose the Energy Efficiency Directive. I have asked my services and the administration to prepare, in close consultation with the CREG, new legal provisions to open the doors to this sector more widely. Elia's report on the tenders received was forwarded to CREG, which should shortly decide on the reasonableness of the tenders received and thus complete the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u38	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which has taken into account developments since the tabling of my question, which has been going on for some time. Having said that, you have not developed some of the elements of my question that remain relevant. Indeed, you have not answered my question about the list of offers. Could you give me a copy to see the difference between the 1,300 and the 800? You had already given us this list, but since then it has been updated. As far as my question about the reassessment of the need is concerned, unless I am mistaken, you have not given any figures on this subject. However, even more so in the light of the updating of my question, it would have been interesting to have this figure available. In terms of demand management, I fully agree with you both on the growing interest and the need to further strengthen this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u39	The list is based on a document declared confidential by Elia. So you should interview her directly. However, I will do it for you. Furthermore, the questions to which you refer are the subject of your question No 5396, which you tabled on 24 June 2015, to which I will reply later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u40	Are you talking about my question about re-evaluation of need?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u41	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u42	I will therefore come back to this point later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u43	Mr President, on 9 April last the first Dutch floating turbine was born in the port of Den Helder. Private and public partners gathered since 2009 have carried this project on a floating platform supporting one or more turbines, with conventional rotors or vertical blades. The advantage of this system over conventional deep-sea hydrolenia seems to be its flexibility of use. Anchored off the coast, in an area of favorable currents, these turbines will eventually have a unit power of 2 to 3 MW, the consortium imagining the development of fields with a power of 50 to 500 MW, the prototype of 200 kW inaugurated on 9 April being a reduced model of future standard units. Minister, what do you think of this experience? Have you asked your administration to analyse it in depth? Would a field visit be relevant? The idea of this project also seems to be to use this mobile demonstrator to carry out test campaigns around the world. What would you think of a partnership or even a similar experience in the Belgian part of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u44	This experiment of testing a floating hydrolian is interesting and shows well the many technological advances in renewable energy, and more particularly for the exploitation of the energy of the seas and oceans. However, a study carried out in 2012 by the University of Ghent on behalf of the Scientific Policy entitled BOREAS study shows that the speed of marine currents in the Belgian part of the North is too low for this type of machines, which are developed for much higher and more regular sea current speeds. Wave energy converters seem much more promising because of a wave climate that is qualified as moderate in our marine space, and this is done by adapting the developed converters to this climate. The current legislation allows holders of State concessions to install this type of machinery as well. Today, the only concrete developments are those of the company Mermaid, which has instead chosen wave energy converters adapted to our wave climate and which are still being developed as part of the FlanSea project for a planned power of 20 to 61 MW. DG Energy is of course following these developments through Belgian specialists from the University of Ghent and the Provincial Ontwikkelingsmaatschappij West-Vlaanderen who are well aware of this experience. I don't rule out a field visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I had no knowledge of the BOREAS study. I assume that it is public, in terms of a scientific study. So I'll go back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u46	Madam Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper, you announced, among other things, that you would revise the legislation on the electricity switch-off plan. You said you'd evaluate the plan yourself. Elia would, among other things, calculate how much megawatts we could save less if certain infrastructure such as the port of Ghent were removed from the exit plan. In your reply to an earlier oral question, you stated that you are carrying out that evaluation. Among other things, the governors, the federations, the organisations and also the local actors were asked to tell us where the plan was wrong. The AD Energy is currently steering the revision of the shutdown plan. The federal, Walloon and Flemish crisis centres, Elia, Synergrid and the various stakeholders are also involved. By 15 May 2015, the data of the new format would be taken into account. You've announced that before. We are already a little late, namely already June. That is why I have a number of questions about the state of play regarding the evaluation of the exit plan. How are you doing with the revision of that plan? What are the main issues raised in the survey? Have you been able to decide how the exit plan will be revised correctly? Will critical infrastructure be removed from the shutdown plan? Will there be any changes in the zones themselves? What matters should be taken into account in this review? I assume that consultations will also take place, including with the Minister for Economic Affairs. When are you planning this meeting? What is the further timing for the revision of the existing legislation on the exit plan, in order to arrive at a new exit plan? Is that still possible by next winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u47	Madam Minister, during our exchange on this subject in committee on 31 March, we joined us in saying that – I quote you: "from a legal point of view, the current plan was already low", since the ministerial decree of 3 June 2005 did not fully comply with the requirement of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2002 on the basis of which it had been adopted. On the other hand, some of the resulting provisions were incompatible with obligations arising from international agreements or texts, including those relating to civil aviation. You also announced that you were looking for a more proportional way to apply a possible discharge. You specified that the data for these new cuts would be validated before May 15, 2015, which is why I waited until that date before asking you again. Now that this date is behind us, I would like to know about this new cutting and the elements that make up the new organization of the relief plan for the coming winters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u48	Minister, at our exchange of views on December 16, 2014, you announced an assessment/revision of the release plan. You have also returned to the situation of the port of Ghent and to the airports of Charleroi and Liège. What measures will you put in place to modify the release plan to respond to the various criticisms? When will these changes be implemented? What consultations have you conducted with Elia, the GRD and the Regions? Are these issues before the Consultation Committee and the Inter-Ministerial Conference? What measures will be taken for regional ports and airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u49	Mr President, the Working Party on the Unloading Plan has met on numerous occasions; in addition to its own meetings, it has organised numerous additional specific meetings, in particular on the communication aspect gsm on which I will be speaking later. My firm initiated the review process and entrusted this group's chairmanship to DG Energy. This working group therefore brings together DG Energy, Elia, Synergrid, the Federal Crisis Centre, the Wallonia Regional Crisis Centre, the Flemish Regional Crisis Centre, my office, as I said, Jan Jambon and Kris Peeters. Depending on the issues discussed, different stakeholders such as SNCB, Infrabel, IBPT, telephone operators, etc. have been invited or have taken part in specific meetings. The working group on the revision of the release plan completed its work and proposed suitable texts and a redistribution of the tranches. The amendments made, in particular those concerning the Royal Decree of 19 December 2002 and the Ministerial Decree of 3 January 2005, have already been submitted to the CREG, which made various comments; all of these comments have been taken into account. Upon receipt of the official notice from CREG, the file will be sent to the Inspectorate of Finance and the Minister of Budget and placed on the agenda of the Concerted Committee. The opinion of the Council of State will obviously be sought. Sites affected by international legislation such as ports or airports have been removed from the clearance plan. Work is under way to map the delestable posts and the cabins that depend on them. Once completed, these data will be reviewed before being validated and made public. This communication will not take place for several weeks since geomatics work is still under way. It is a question of determining for each slice what are the delestable posts and cabins - the line that on a map separates the slices or territorial regions between them, is equivalent to three kilometres, that is to say an impressive amount of delestable posts and cabins. It is therefore this work of ant that takes the necessary time. The territorial distribution of the items in the various tranches was carried out in accordance with the provisions of the ENSO-E on operational procedures and, in particular, that of Policy 5 "Emergency Operation", which stipulates that the share of each electric zone in a fraction must be proportional to that of other electric zones in that fraction and to the total consumption of the electric zone concerned. We have also, in accordance with an international regulation on maritime matters, as in civil aviation, withdrawn from the plan to remove the areas previously in it. Precise operational arrangements have been prepared to allow rapid restocking at previously identified sites or on other sites based on specific situations and after advice from the Federal Crisis Centre. Thanks to the assistance of SNCB and Infrabel, a rail traffic plan could be drawn up but will only concern the first unusable tranche. Other accompanying provisions are still in preparation and will be communicated at the same time as the territorial aspect of the plan which will take place in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. Last summer, we had to pull out a circuit plan from underneath the dust. We have all noted that this was outdated, an update and an evaluation was certainly on the table. Of course, we hope that the plan will not be used and that you will take all the measures necessary to avoid the need for a switch-off plan. I think it's good that we have an evaluation. There are a number of major changes, if I understand correctly. There will be a different layout of the zones. It is also good news that important issues that are internationally sensitive, such as airport and ports, are being removed from the plan. This is also a major change in relation to the previous plan. There will also be a railway plan. That was one of the major gaps in the previous shutdown plan. We didn't know what would happen to the trains if a zone was switched off. Those are big changes. It is important that we communicate well now, not only with the authorities that are being taken out of the switch-off drives, but also with the citizens, so that they know very well what will happen. It is important that the necessary time and budget are made available for good communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u51	Mr. Chair, at the turn of the minister's response, we see that there are a number of changes, which we said was necessary, since there was a problem with the previous plan. I'm just a little worried about the schedule. When you say, Madam Minister, that you still need a few weeks, I guess that means it's for the new year, since at some point some of the actors are on vacation. We will be in September, or is it later than September, a few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u52	Before September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u53	Before September. But not today? At the meeting of governors or between the two?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u54	Neither at the meeting of governors. I have explained well that the territorial distribution of the affected posts is continuing and that it is a work of Benedictine which has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u55	I have two dimensions left. Firstly, on relations with SNCB, which is indeed important, but if I have heard the answer correctly, it would only concern the first instalment. The question will arise as to whether the first tranche should be set in motion one day, on 15 January, and that, a month later, on 10 February, it is necessary to set in motion another release. Do we take up the first tranche because we know that it is receiving aid, in any case a supplement so that the SNCB can turn, or do we move to tranche 2 in your new model, because the SNCB does not know how to adapt, in any case in such a short time, with tranche 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u56	I repeat what I told you. Thanks to the assistance of SNCB and Infrabel, a rail traffic plan could be drawn up but will only concern the first detestable tranche.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u57	The question is, exactly...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u58	I understand, but here's the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u59	I suppose you will answer it in more detail later, because it is to think, of course, if at one month interval it is not possible to re-engage the same slice. And I tell you again, I'm in the first slice, in the old first slice anyway. Last item Minister, are you restarting an On/Off campaign or is it not planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u60	Normally we're re-launching an Off/On campaign. I repeat Mrs Dierick's sentence, which is very enlightening. A discharge plan does not exist for the pleasure of making it exist, but to know that it can exist and that it must not, under any circumstances, be used, or in any case, that it can only be used in the alternative, because the means are not present and because one should have thought of having these means. There is, in a way, a theoretical and well-established way not to use it. As far as your question is concerned,... I no longer know what your question was.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u61	Off/On.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u62	The idea is to reuse the Off/On campaign because it is good for acting on demand management. It has a dual objective always envisaged but the former has masked the second or, in any case, it has not been possible to project both objectives at the same time. The first objective was because the discharge plan was not ready, the means of production were problematic and the previous winter was feared, when the government came in charge. The second objective which has been masked, but which must always be put forward in an extremely positive way, is the promotion of new behaviours allowing everyone to realize that the best energy is that which is not consumed! It is in this context, with a modified, stronger, and a priori not to be used in the next winter, that we leave in the coming months to meet this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the changes to the plan. During the discussions, it had been said that Elia should be deprived of the possibility of identifying priority areas. I believe that this decision must be taken by the government. Deciding on areas where there are hospitals, industrial zonings, as you have already done for airports and ports, if I understand correctly, I think it is up to the government and not to Elia. Especially since one of the criticisms was his lack of transparency during the many debates last summer. To give priority to the government, I do not know whether it is necessary to make an amendment to the law or a change of order. Madam Minister, we should therefore work in greater transparency than before, informing Parliament – I imagine, Mr President, that we will be conducting a debate in September on the defined plan – and the people. This is an essential point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u64	Minister, thank you for your response on Off/On. This complement is always useful if it is well orchestrated. Since some are on leave, can you be asked to send the information to the members of the commission once you have established it? This will avoid learning them in part from the press and waiting for October to eventually ask you about it. Two elements. In a few weeks, once you have them - before September you tell us - could you pass it on to us, since some parliamentary services have earned their leave? My second request is instead addressed to the President, to relay to Mr Delizée. Could we then, on the basis of the information we have received, organise a specific meeting on this issue at the beginning of September – I think Mrs Lalieux is in the same direction. For as long as you have decided, do not wait until that time to send us the elements of the decision, as you will pass them on to others, so that we may also receive them through your office. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u65	As soon as I have finalized and decided, I will communicate and then send the information to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u67	Mr President, Minister, on Friday 13 March a document was adopted at the Council of Ministers entitled 'The building blocks for an energy vision'. This was a first text and also a first step to arrive at an interfederal energy vision later together with the Regions. The Council of Ministers has asked you to begin consultations with the regions, and I have a number of questions about this. Has the consultation with the regional governments already started in order to achieve an energy vision together? If so, with which? How's the contact going? How will you proceed in order to achieve an energy vision together with the Regions? How will it be practical to arrive at a joint text? What is the estimated timing to achieve an energy vision? Will you use the existing advisory structures at federal and regional level in the trajectory towards this energy vision? If so, which one? At what stage will you involve them? As soon as an energy pact has been established, there is, of course, also a need for follow-up and a guarantee. Do you have any idea how this could best happen? How will Parliament be involved? Mr President, I shall now move on to my second joint question, after which Mr Nollet will be able to speak. This question deals with another aspect of the energy vision, in particular the involvement of social partners in the development of the vision. It is very important that there is as broad a public support as possible. My questions on this are as follows, Madam Secretary. Which stakeholders will be involved in the design of the energy vision and the energy pact? How will this happen in concrete terms? At what stage are these involved? Will you also involve social partners in this? If so, at what stage? The social partners have already indicated that they fear that they will have to express their support for a vision, while they were not involved in the preparation of it in advance. How can that fear be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u68	Mr President, we are talking about vision, but I am talking about the pact, which is the next step. Madam Minister, I wanted to know where you were in drafting the energy pact. What were your contacts on this issue with the various players in the sector, including environmental associations? The previous debate on this issue is recalled. How many meetings have you held with the Regions? Did you discuss the substance or methodology? In your previous answer, you distinguished both. Is there already agreement with the Regions on the principle and/or methodology and/or timetable? What are the next steps on this issue and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u69	Mr President, discussions with the regions were started some time ago. The talks are going constructively, but of course it takes some time to come up with a common vision. The vision text approved by the federal government already indicates a certain direction, with respect for regional powers. These shutters can be enriched and supplemented in consultation with the various authorities. A common working methodology has been developed and three working groups have already initiated their work on interconnections, governance and how to achieve the energy transition. Each working group shall ensure that the sector is consulted. The list of persons to be consulted shall be drawn up jointly with the Regions. The list is composed of representatives of the energy sector, social partners and environmental organisations. The list will be approved at the next inter-federal IKW meeting on 8 July. This intercabinet acts as a pilot. The inter-federal inter-cabinet meets monthly to discuss the evolution of the working groups. The aim is to have a vision finalized at the end of the year, so that the Interdepartmental Conference can meet at the beginning of next year. I hope that discussions on the vision and the pact can be concluded as soon as possible, but as this involves a lot of people, they take the necessary time. The energy pact must be much more than just a document. In our view, it must give concrete impetus to Belgian energy policy and set the necessary milestones for the future. That is why the implementation of the measures and the monitoring of the achievements will be clearly supervised. There are currently no formal consultations with neighbouring countries. I can assure you, however, that both myself and my administration will not fail to address this issue in our frequent international contacts. I reply to Mrs Dierick that I have not yet found the formula that will allow me to involve Parliament in this vast work. The suggestions are obviously welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u70	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We have indeed had to spend a great deal of time on our short-term measures over the past period. I believe that we must now also make time for our energy policy in the longer term. I note that consultation with the Regions has begun and I fully understand that it takes some time to sit around with so many people to achieve a sustained energy vision. I think we should really take our time and make an effort. This is a crucial moment for our energy policy. If we don't set the beacons right now, we're gonna be in trouble. The consultation with the Regions has therefore begun. I have also heard that you will start consultations with all stakeholders. That is also the intention of such a pact. It is important that all actors in the energy sector, producers, suppliers, transmission system operators, as well as the social partners, environmental organisations and consumers are involved. It is important that they are involved from the outset. After all, we can only achieve a sustained energy vision and a pact if they are involved from the outset. I therefore hope that you will carry out your intention effectively. Finally, we need to think carefully about how best to organise Parliament's follow-up. We need to take the necessary time. It is also important that, once we have a pact, there should be regular feedback to Parliament. We need to be able to evaluate the state of play and the progress of everything. Should this happen every year or biennially? Does this only happen here in the Federal Parliament, or do we involve the other parliaments? Maybe it's an assignment for us to make suggestions about that. In any case, I thank you and wish you every success in your energy vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u71	Minister, as I understand it, the Regions have expressed their agreement on the methodology. Or is it only partial and there are three working groups left?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u72	An agreement has been reached to work together, but it is only partial because, in my view, the methodology needs to be further developed than the three working groups that have been set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u73	That way, things are clear. Then you say that the federal government's vision can be enriched and complemented by regional governments. Does that mean that they cannot question it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u74	I've already had the opportunity to explain it to you...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u75	No, it was about non-governmental actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u76	You certainly know better than I do the questions you ask me. I'm just saying that it's always the same principle, whether it's for actors or governments: everyone can express their vision, but the essential thing is to work together to produce a common text. The role of the working groups is to approach the topic from a different perspective and to achieve this comprehensive dialogue. So, no conception is reduced to the other, and everyone tries to work with respect for each other's accents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u77	If I understand correctly, the discussions would allow the pact not only to be enriched, but also to result from a change in the original conceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u78	With everyone's agreement, that seems to me to be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u79	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, storage is the last technological lock that some people are still using to remove renewable energy sources. That is, the importance and urgency of blowing this last lock when we know the climatic benefits of these modern forms of clean energy production. The CREG has just published an interesting study on electricity storage. I suppose you've read it very carefully. As Tesla has just demonstrated, CREG is right in insisting that "the cost associated with certain technologies, such as batteries, could experience significant reductions in the short term, as a result of technological advances and economies of scale". The CREG also notes the remaining obstacles to the development of storage systems and believes that priority should be given to addressing, as has already been done in part under the previous Wallonia legislature, barriers to storage caused by tariffs, taxes, surcharges and other obligations. According to CREG, this will allow for quick wins in the short term. In addition, CREG makes three specific recommendations to the federal government, ranking them in order of priority. First, amend the Electricity Act to exempt storage units from federal assessment and offshore green certificate overload. Second, amend the Electricity Act with a view to introducing a favourable tariff regime for storage plants. Thirdly, request a change in the mechanism for clearing losses on the 380/220/150 kV network in the federal technical regulation. My first question is very simple, Madam Minister. Will you accept these three requests and relay them quickly, particularly as part of the environmental chapter of the tax shift announced on July 21? My second question is more technical. Should not a distinction be made in the aid granted to specifically support storage systems coupled with renewable energy production? My third question is, in part, beyond your ministerial competence. However, what do you intend to do, beyond the three proposals of the CREG, so that this sector of storage in full boom and creating jobs at different levels of the production chain can develop in Belgium as an industrial sector, with job spillovers located at home at the key? My fourth question concerns the North Sea energy atoll project. The CREG study shows (pages 21 and 22) that this type of storage is in the upper part of the range of investment costs compared to the different storage technologies – up to five times the onshore projects when these costs are expressed in euro/kWh – and that the potential energy that could be stored in this type of project is more limited since the drop height between the lower and upper reservoirs is significantly lower at sea than in most other pumping-turbing plants. What about this project? My last question relates to the regret expressed by CREG that no study has so far identified the overall flexibility needs of the Belgian electricity system. I think there is no need to show you the usefulness of such a systemic study. When are you going to launch such a study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u80	Mr President, the constant development of variable renewable energy sources results in an equally steady increase in our need for flexibility. Indeed, it has not escaped anyone that, even by the succession of days and nights like that of clouds and the inconstancy of winds, renewable energy sources are eminently intermittent. The networks thus constantly vary production and must have significant means to maintain their balance. Storage is one of the most suitable tools for this purpose. As with many other areas, when one refers to a solution, others appear to claim the same virtues and to which some lend exceptional qualities. You have to know why to keep it. Storage as a means of transport is at stake. Some are individual, others collective and suitable for a small number, others are even more important and intended for mass transport. Everyone understands that the tools used are not the same. In other words, what is suitable for one mode is inappropriate for the other. There are different techniques in storage, some of which are very old. A careful examination of these shows from the outset that they have very specific uses. As far as our electricity transmission networks are concerned, for the time being there is a great need for a solution: pumping-turbining. This solution is the one used for 96% of global storage capacity. In Europe alone, there are 170 plants with a power of 45 000 MW or 45 GW. Germany, which already owns 12,5 GW, is currently building 4 GW in order to better balance its large wind farm and ensure sufficient peak response capacity. Austria, which owns 4.3 GW, builds an additional 3.5 GW, while Switzerland, which has 1.7 GW, builds an additional 3.5 GW. The technique used is a question of both maturity and scale. If for a transportation system, pumping-turbining is chosen, it is because in this transportation system, we speak of hundreds of megawatts. While for a particular building with a range of 10 to 20 kWh, other tools are needed, such as batteries. To balance a few wind turbines in the middle of our campaigns where it is 3 to 4 MW, batteries can be enough, as they will suffice for a real estate complex with common solar panel facilities. I am not going to sum up in my remarks the many studies which all lead to the same conclusions, but simply reiterate that the criteria of maturity, efficiency, suitability for the various requests for ancillary services of the transmission system operator (TSO) and service life mean that pumping-turbining has no equivalent for this type of use. More particularly now concerning the Coo 3 and iLand projects...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u81	Mr President, excuse me, I forgot to ask this question. Wouldn't it be better if I put it down to stay consistent and respond at once? Minister, the newspaper L'Echo tells us that Electrabel, on a day of study on storage organized on May 8 by the SPF Economy, presented its plan to boost the capacity of its Coo power plant by 50%. This project would allow an additional 3,000 MWh to be stored, in addition to the 5,000 MWh offered by existing facilities. Can you not only confirm this information but, above all, clarify the content of the project, its cost and its possible time frame? What are, in the same terms, the other projects that were mentioned or presented at this study day? Furthermore, can you tell us the content of your policy action on energy storage, in addition to the information already given at the beginning of your response? The project in Coo is significantly cheaper than the proposed energy atoll, whose investment is estimated at €1.2 billion with a slightly lower power. How are you going to integrate this into your policy line on this energy storage issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u82	As I said, with regard to Coo 3 and iLand, I confirm the brief presentation on 8 May 2015 of Electrabel's pre-project on Coo 3, stating that ENGIE has not yet agreed to launch such a project. The figure of 3,000 MWh taken from the newspaper L'Echo is the figure advanced by the director of production. A Coo 3 of 600 MWh is envisaged, i.e. two turbines of 300 MWh each, with an efficiency of 70, 80% at an estimated cost of 600 million euros. As far as the timetable for implementation is concerned, I can only repeat Mr Pouilly's remarks on 8 May, that is, six years from the investment decision to the start-up. The only other project presented was the energy atoll. The atoll would store 2,000 MWh and the installed capacity would be 500 MW. Operation would be possible five years after receipt of authorizations. More information on Mr. Malherbe's presentation can be found on the FPS Economy website. To your question concerning my political action in the field of storage, I refer to your oral question No 4239. Storage is a subject that I have been interested in for some time. The day of May 8th has already allowed me to determine what technologies were available in the short, medium and long term. It also allowed me to refer to the existing regulatory barriers. These have been examined in detail by CREG, which, after a very recent study, has listed the measures that both the federal and the regions should take to restore the operating parameters of these units, whose importance, to counterbalance the intermittent nature of renewable energies, is no longer to be demonstrated, while at the same time they are able to cover the whole range of ancillary services, i.e. reserve 1, 2, 3, blackstart and other specific uses, so that they are more indispensable to us than ever before. I can only invite you to read the study of the CREG which should largely document you and anchor your conviction about the multiple advantages of this type of installation, in full increase all over the world. As far as the atoll is concerned, I would like to draw the members' attention to the fact, as already stated in the committee, that the matter has recently been discussed within the Council of Ministers and will be reviewed before the summer break, after analysis and study of the systems planned for energy storage. I have also been mandated by the Council of Ministers to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made in accordance with Article 6/1 of the Electricity Act, which provides that such installations, i.e. hydropower storage in marine areas under Belgian jurisdiction, may not benefit from the support mechanism referred to in Article 7(1), or from any other form of subsidies or financial support from the State or the electricity consumer. This means that federal authorities can support these facilities as long as this support is not of a financial nature. It must therefore be a self-funded project. And the business plan of the candidate dealership was not in line with that provision. I would point out that, although parallels can be established between, on the one hand, the system to be used in the energy atolls and, on the other hand, the system already used in Coo, the two dossiers differ considerably in technical terms. They should therefore not be treated in the same way. A study and analysis of these two files will not necessarily lead to the same results. With regard to the first three questions you asked first, I will complete my answer with the following. The three specific recommendations of CREG will of course be relayed in order to recreate normal operating conditions. As regards the question of the distinction in the aid granted to specifically support storage systems coupled with renewable energy production, both systems are intended to be associated. More than significant support may be appropriate, but we are here on regional lands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for your response as a whole. I hear you're going to relay all three of the CREG's requests. I don't know if it'll be in the tax shift or not, but I think it's relevant. I know that the government is looking for green dimensions to tax shift. Perhaps there are ideas there that may not be exclusive but interesting. I can only invite you to continue thinking in this direction. I take note of what you say in relation to the Atoll versus the Coo Basin. I still note that it is roughly the same power, roughly the same construction timing, 5 years for one, 6 years for the other. On the other hand, one costs $600 million, the other costs $1.2 billion. The difference is still quite important since it goes from simple to double. I also take note of the fact that the author of the project did not respect the condition that you put in place, that of being self-supporting from a private point of view. I guess the work will continue. On the other hand, I had read the CREG study well, since I asked the question on that basis, but I do not have an answer to the jobs in the production chain, jobs that can be created around all these storage questions, so that not all jobs are created abroad, especially in Germany. I do not know whether there is a dimension to be taken into account in your answer, because you have not addressed it. The production chain could also develop in Belgium. There are a lot of key jobs in storage, in addition to jobs in renewable energy. I can only invite you, in any case, to pay attention to this, together with your colleagues in the government, so that the necessary conditions can be created for the creation of this sector of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u84	ONDRAF considered it necessary to go through a press conference to express its concern about the situation of the temporary storage facilities for nuclear waste. These buildings are almost completely filled while many waste will still accumulate until 2025, all the more so with a measure that could one day result in an extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants, even if we are still far from it. ONDRAF submitted an application for nuclear authorization to the Federal Agency in January 2013 and still does not appear to have received this authorization. Do you confirm this situation? Do you have any specific information about this? What is the work schedule? What are the steps to be taken? Moreover, such a facility must not only be safe and reliable, but must also be supported by the public. What do you intend to do about this, and exactly when, to involve the local population concerned and, above all, to verify before the final decision is made that the project has broad public support? Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what is the status of the national programme for the management of nuclear waste streams which the Belgian government is to transmit to the European Commission before 23 August 2015. What are the steps already taken? What are the steps still to be taken and on what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u85	With regard to the decision-making process on the long-term management of Category A waste and the involvement of local people in it, it should be noted that on 16 January 1998 the Council of Ministers decided to opt for a definitive or definitive solution for the long-term management of Category A waste and, inter alia, entrusted the ONDRAF with, I quote, "developing methods including management and consultation structures to integrate such a project at local level." The mission resulted in three local partnerships. The first, first called STOLA, became STORA, was concluded between the commune of Dessel and ONDRAF. The second, called MONA, was concluded between the municipality of Mol and ONDRAF. The third, PaLoFF, concerns the communes of Fleurus and Farciennes. These partnerships have developed integrated final storage projects. If the one implemented by PaLoff was decided, following the decisions of the Communal Councils of Fleurus and Farciennes, the other two projects benefited from a favourable vote by the Communal Councils of Dessel and Mol. On the basis of the projects developed by the two partnerships and approved by these communal councils, the Council of Ministers decided on 23 June 2006 that Category A waste would be put for final disposal in a surface storage facility on the territory of the commune of Dessel. In accordance with the same decision of the Council of Ministers, ONDRAF continued the participatory process with Dessel and Mol and continues to work closely with these two municipalities. Secondly, on 31 January 2013, ONDRAF submitted to AFCN an application for authorisation for the establishment and operation of a surface final repository for low- and medium-scale waste with a short-lived life. This application is currently being examined in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment against the danger of ionizing radiation - i.e., the RGPRI. This matter falls within the jurisdiction of Minister Jambon, and it is therefore not for me to rule on this ongoing nuclear authorization application procedure with the AFCN. However, I can share with you the following information. First, the AFCN forwarded to ONDRAF, as part of this review, a significant number of questions – 270 in total – related to the security file established by the organization. A list of these questions is available on the AFCN website. ONDRAF plans to provide an answer to all questions for the third quarter of 2015. Secondly, the ONDRAF considers, according to its own planning, that the authorisation would only be issued at the earliest in the course of 2017. The installation could therefore not be put into service until 2021. In the meantime, Category A waste is stored safely and reliably, under the control of AFCN, at the ONDRAF sites operated by Belgoprocess in Mol-Dessel. With regard to your third question concerning the temporary storage of Category A waste and the capacity still available in storage facilities, the storage capacity of radioactive waste is subject to a periodic evaluation by ONDRAF, which regularly informs its Board of Directors and its Standing Technical Committee on which the main producers of radioactive waste sit. At its meeting on 14 November 2014, the Standing Technical Committee issued a favourable opinion on the further development of a project for the storage of unpackaged waste with a modular extension dedicated to approximately 10,000 packages of Category A packaged waste, corresponding to 8 to 10 years of production. In addition, on 5 December 2014, the ONDRAF Board of Directors decided to establish a new storage building with a capacity of around 10,000 packages to accommodate all packages presenting, or drums likely to be frozen. I would like to recall that some packages are affected by a so-called alkali-silice reaction that visually translates into a gel formation, hence their name. This new storage facility will also facilitate the inspection of these packages and their monitoring over time. The availability of these new buildings planned for the end of 2018, combined with the optimisation of the use of other storage capacity still available, should, according to ONDRAF's forecasts, ensure the continuity of the current management of low-level Category A radioactive waste well beyond 2025. As regards your fourth question, the national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is drawn up by the Committee of the national programme set up by the Act of 3 June 2014, which transposes into Belgian law Directive 2011/70/Euratom, which establishes a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The committee should send us the final version of this national program very soon, having taken into account the advice of the AFCN. As soon as it has been forwarded to me by the committee, I will take the necessary steps with Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters for approval by the Council of Ministers and subsequent transmission to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u86	I thank the minister for her response. I hope that you will be in time for 23 August, since that is the time that was set as the European Commission's deadline. This is on the part of the national flow management program. For the rest, I am very cautious about ONDRAF's recourse to a press conference to denounce a situation for which it is itself responsible. It is, to say the least, particular to say that there is an emergency and to do so through a press conference when he is in regular contact with ministers and complaining when he himself is behind schedule since we were talking about a response by the end of June and now it is in the third quarter of 2015. It is particular and it is not for nothing that your colleague, Minister Jambon, has joined me on this aspect by not understanding the purpose of this press conference either. I can't find any more in your answer, which makes me say that there certainly had to be a turnaround of ONDRAF in this ping-pong game that he wanted to introduce with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u87	As Mrs Dierick left us, her question No 5098 was deleted. Mr. Hedebouw is not with us. I give you the floor, Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, it now seems clear that you are refusing to forward to the Federal Board of Appeal for Access to Environmental Information a copy of the contract on the extension of the life of the Tihange 1 nuclear reactor. The Commission rightly believes that you are preventing it from carrying out its work of monitoring the publicity of the acts of the political authorities. You are aware that this Federal Appeals Board, as an independent and neutral review body, makes decisions on access to environmental information and that its decisions are binding even on a minister. Even for you! To avoid this, you block the situation upstream. You are refusing to forward this document to the Commission in spite of, it seems, three interim Commission decisions which urge you to hand over the text. The last decision gave until April 20th to do so. The Commission considers that you are acting out of law, ignoring a legal obligation. The aspect of confidentiality that you invoke does not stand the way at this stage of the procedure because, as you know, the Commission is acting in full compliance with this confidentiality in order, precisely, to decide whether or not the document can be made public. Madam Minister, as you are a lawyer – and we often remember – you know very well that you cannot substitute for the body responsible for judging whether or not this document should be public. My questions are therefore as follows. On what legal basis did you refuse access to this document to the Federal Board of Appeal? Since you have not considered it appropriate to transmit these documents without the green light of the other signatories to the Convention, my supplementary question is when and in what form you have taken a first formal step towards these signatories in order to obtain their green light. Have you repeated this approach at a later stage? If so, when? In addition, your last request by e-mail on June 18 differs from your request by e-mail on June 11. Could you give us a copy of these requests and tell us how they differ? Finally, why did you restrict the request made in your 18 June e-mail to the exclusive organisation of a data room reserved for parliamentarians only, whereas the Commission's request and decision sought much wider access, particularly for citizens and applicant associations? What justifies this restriction that you impose on your head?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u89	Mr Nollet, you are asking me why I did not agree to communicate the Tihange 1 Convention to the Federal Commission of Appeal for Access to Environmental Information and on what legal basis I am basing myself on my position and you are asking me whether I intend to review my position and make it public. I should like to recall that I have already had the opportunity, for two hours, to explain my position in the plenary meeting on 17 June. Indeed, through your question, which is after this sitting, you ask me the content of the letters I sent to the addressee. I repeat that the Convention does not constitute environmental information within the meaning of the Act of 5 August 2006 since it does not contain any measure, analysis or element relating to the state of the environment or man; it contains only economic and financial information. This agreement was signed in the previous legislature. The government and the signatory parties have wished to be confidential and I am not responsible for judging the merits of the matter. On the other hand, I must ensure that the government is not held accountable. As such, I am bound to respect the confidentiality obligations contained in this Convention entered into by the Belgian State for two reasons which I mentioned in the course of the debate. First, article 1134 of the Civil Code provides that legally formed conventions are used as a law by those who made them. They may be revoked only from their mutual consent or for the causes permitted by law and must be executed in good faith. Secondly, I refer you to Article 10.1 of the Energy Charter Treaty, which recalls that each Contracting Party complies with its obligations vis-à-vis an investor or towards an investor of another Contracting Party. As regards the content of the letters I sent to the four signatory parties, I sent them a first letter dated 11 June. In essence, I stated the appeal board's request and asked them to position themselves in that regard. On the other hand, between this shipment and my letter of June 18, I realized two things. First of all, the Commission had emptied itself of its referral by the decision it had rendered. Then, contrary to what you claim, the Commission's opinion – and I have read the 2006 law well – has no binding effect. The only thing it allows is that it is a compulsory passage for an appeal to the Council of State, but it has a simple role of opinion, like any administrative commission responsible for the publicity of administrative decisions. This is the case for CADA (Commission on Access to Administrative Documents), for example, which is the federal administrative commission established by the 1994 Act. Therefore, having heard all the elements of the debate, I have, during the course of the lengthy debates at the sitting, at the time when they did not concern me, sent a new letter, this time by e-mail, to all the four signatories, in which I explained that I realized that the Commission had closed its procedure, thereby vitating its referral, and that, at one point, with regard to a convention which binds the Belgian State, it was necessary for complete democratic access to be organised. Knowing, for having learned it from a personal source through the exchange that I had already had with the representatives of these firms, that EDF France, as I said on several occasions, was very reluctant to communicate anything, I proposed, after hearing the debate, the formula of the data room. I believe that you have seen in the Conference of Presidents the response of the four signatory parties, including a very strict response from EDF France, which goes beyond the way in which the communication of the convention was made in the data room in the previous legislature. But Parliament obviously has every freedom of action. That is what I did say to the four signatory parties and this is their reply of 19 June, the day after the letter I sent them. My will has always been, and is always, while respecting the obligations of the Belgian State and in order not to incur its responsibility, to provide access to the full text of the Convention, while respecting these obligations, explaining that I can understand that wider access could be requested but that then, of course, these undertakings will refuse or excur from the Convention all that they consider to be of the order of confidentiality. This is the set of elements such as reality provides us with them and in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u90	Mr President, the minister's sentence regarding her requests and the responses that followed is important, as she adds that Parliament has full discretion to rule on the matter. It is, for me, a fundamental phrase. I insist because it seems new to me in the procedure. Secondly, in the first part of your answer, you elaborate on the arguments that you might have used before the Appeal Board to clarify why it should not make the agreement public. You refer to article 1134 of the Civil Code, but these are arguments to explain to the Commission why you do not want it to be made public. But these are not elements that allow you and exempt you from transmitting this convention to the Commission, which is an administrative commission and acts under the seal of confidentiality. Probably, Mr Vande Lanotte mentioned, would the Commission have followed some of your arguments. Whatever! These are not legal arguments which exempt you from forwarding the said Convention to the Commission. Secondly, that the Commission should decide to apply public non-transmission, because of Article 1134, is something else! But you're not both a judge and a party to decide whether or not to transfer the exhibits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u91	Mr President, I would like to respond to two very specific points. First, Parliament has full latitude, but Parliament respects and must respect laws and regulations. Also, don't overemphasize this sentence! Parliament has the freedom to comply with laws and regulations. And these also apply to Parliament, which is one of the powers representing the Belgian State, which, as an executive, I am the guardian, together with the government, of responsibility. So, the responsibility of the government, I take care of it! Your own responsibility for action, you take care of it! On the other hand, in this context, everyone has a freedom of action and everyone takes on his or her own responsibility and only one judge – but contrary to what you think, the Administrative Commission is not a judge. It is an administrative advisory body – may decide whether or not I should have forwarded this agreement to the committee. As I explained to you, in my first speech, we are talking about the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u92	Mr President, Madam Minister, as far as the first part of your reply is concerned, Parliament has full latitude – it acts, of course, according to laws and regulations, but also in accordance with the Constitution, in particular Article 58 thereof, in accordance with the laws. On the other hand, I maintain my remarks that it is not up to you to decide whether or not to forward a document to the Commission. It is up to the Commission to decide what it does with the document once it has it in its possession. But I repeat that it is not up to you to decide whether or not to forward it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u93	You refer to article 58 of the Constitution, which speaks of the freedom to intervene for every parliamentarian. This freedom is not without limits. It is limited by laws and regulations. In doing so, despite the fact that you feel that you have freedom of speech and action, as a parliamentarian, you are also an accountant of laws and regulations. On the other hand, at the Conference of Presidents, you objected to the latter's willingness to respect the laws and regulations of that country by not transmitting this Convention and by referring to the legal opinion, but also to that of each other. I know Parliament well enough to know that the President of the Conference of Presidents has had to take legal advice. In my view, it is not possible for the Speaker of the Assembly to work otherwise. In any event, these two concepts are opposed and they can only be settled by a vote and nothing else! That's how I get to your personal action. This is another problem. As I said before, I take on my responsibilities, the government takes on its responsibilities, you take on yours. From there you are, despite your freedom of speech – I remind you that it is not without limits – accountant to comply with the laws and regulations of this country. Therefore, if you violate the confidentiality of this agreement, you will bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u94	Madam Minister, I propose that you do not enter this register of threats, which is also completely displaced. I propose that you stay in your place and not take on a role that is not yours. On the other hand, on the merits, this role is totally false. I assume that, as a lawyer and not even as a minister or former parliamentarian, you know a little bit about the judgment of the Court of Cassation of June 2006. I assume that you know what this judgment says and that you know that since then the question of responsibility has been fundamentally different. I would refer you back to the small booklet that was sent to us, as at the beginning of each legislature, by the duly competent services of the House, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u95	Mr President, Madam Minister, while the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) has not yet been heard in Parliament since the vote in plenary on the text to extend nuclear power stations, and a fortiori, while this agency has not yet given its green light to operationalize this option, you told the Belga agency: "We are not in a scenario where it will be no". I pass on the pressure that such a statement wants to exert on the agency to come directly to my central question: what is your plan if the Federal Agency still had to give a negative opinion on the eve of winter? What are your tracks for the 866 MW volume that would be lost compared to your forecasts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, at a press conference you stated that you are on the assumption that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will operate next winter. However, Elia had estimated in its December evaluation that Doel 1 would not be in service for the winter. Furthermore, the AFCN has not yet given its consent to this issue and, as you know, the IAEA will not have an opportunity to carry out a SALTO mission until February 2016. Minister, in making such statements, do not put pressure on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency to give a green light before the winter. Will the AFCN issue its authorization prior to the IAEA SALTO mission? And when should the negotiations with the Electrabel operator end?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a sentence out of context is, of course, always interpretable. I had, at this press conference, answered a question, which you have already asked me, too, who asked me what would happen if Doel 1 and Doel 2 or one of them did not return to the circuit. As you will certainly have seen in the press, I have established – this will be the subject of an answer to subsequent questions – the survey of our megawatt needs and our production/interconnection / strategic reserve. So when I say that I'm going to assume it won't be, it's just a subjective sign of hope and certainly not – as some would like to say – when Minister Jan Jambon repeated it at least 20 times in committee, some pressure on an independent body. This is simply a result of the fact that these plants operated for 40 years without difficulty at 90% availability. And that, therefore, they are in a situation of a priori positive on the technical level. This in no way prejudges the outcome which I do not know, which I do not have to know and which I certainly do not have to intervene on. Of course, as you know, I count in all the means of production present in the territory the power in megawatts of these two plants for 866 MW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u98	There is no answer to our question on Plan B.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u99	I've already answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u100	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u101	But yes, I've already answered. You have already questioned me several times during the examination of the bill that became a law that was passed on June 18th. I can't say anything more about the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u102	The one who will link our work will realize that there is no answer, that there is no scenario. Your mission is precisely to ensure security of supply, regardless of the decision of the Federal Agency. In your opinion, it's a sentence that the journalist came out of context. It's easy to attack journalists! I personally feel that you have facilities to get phrases out of context!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u104	Minister, your answer is a subjective sign of hope! But we do not live only incantations or pious vows. We must be able to explain the reality to each other. You didn't answer us on Plan B. You did not respond to any authorization prior to the SALTO mission. You also did not reply about the timetable for negotiations with the operator. I'm still waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u105	Madam Secretary, I've questioned you several times about MYRRHA. This project not only concerns many Kempian colleagues, but also a number of colleagues from outside the Kempen, with all the sympathy for the Kempian colleagues. The dossier has been on the agenda for some time, because funding is difficult to get around. Meanwhile, there are more positive reports from the SCK: reference is made to a possible initiative by the European Investment Bank, there are signals from Germany and, if I am not mistaken, there has been a recent visit from a Japanese delegation. In the meantime, the French Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté Nucléaire of IRSN, called the French FANC, has published a particularly critical report on the potential of nuclear energy systems of the fourth generation, still a dimension of the MYRRHA project. I refer to this in my written question. What is the state of play with regard to foreign investors for the MYRRHA project? For example, is there a concrete commitment of 10% due to Japanese initiators or authorities? Are there any results from the German evaluation committee headed by Acatech? What conclusions do you draw from the IRSN report? If the fourth generation nuclear energy systems are not intrinsically safer and do not provide a solution to the nuclear waste problem, how can you justify the fact that money is being pumped into the MYRRHA project permanently? I am asking these questions because of great concern about the future of the study centre. We have already suggested that, in the coming years, the Study Centre should evolve into a core safety study centre in order to preserve the jobs and realise the innovation potential that is present on the ground in a world that increasingly opts for post-nuclear energy options.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u106	Madam Secretary, I don't have to introduce the MYRRHA project anymore. However, it is important to underline in the search for funding that it will reduce the half-lives of nuclear waste. Research in Belgium is therefore important for the disposal of nuclear waste. That is why MYRRHA is a very important project and Belgium supports the project. This is also the case in scientific literature, research and advice. Nor do we forget the important impact on research and development and on employment. Jobs are being created in the Kempen, where I come from, which is important for the region. That is why I am asking my questions from a different angle than Mr Calvo. I am also concerned about the financing of our project. The Prime Minister and Minister Peeters were in Japan a few weeks ago and spoke of MYRRHA among other things. What is the outcome of this consultation? Can we expect foreign investment? In short, is there any interest in MYRRHA? When will Japan decide to take part in the project if necessary? What timetable will be followed for the realisation of the reactor? What concrete steps will you take as Minister to further support the project during this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u107	Before answering your questions, I would like to remind the House once again that the MYRRHA project is a nuclear research infrastructure aimed at continuing, in an international context, the necessary research into innovative solutions for high-level radioactive waste, the qualification of materials for fusion reactors, the maintenance of the production of medical radioisotopes in our country and basic nuclear research in collaboration with Belgian, European and international universities and research centres. As I said, in response to your question last November, many research collaborations have been signed with various research institutes from different European and non-European countries since the beginning of this project in 1998. These collaborations represent an average contribution in kind per year of approximately €3 million. The European Commission's financial contributions from 1999 to 2013 represent EUR 14.31 million and EUR 29.2 million in kind. In addition, in March 2015, the European MYRRTE (MyRRHA Research and Transmutation Endeavour) project to support MYRRHA of 11 million, including 9 million contributions over four years from the European Commission, as part of the European Horizon 2020 research programme. MYRRHA will contribute to the development of new materials for future nuclear systems, such as fusion or fourth generation reactors referred to in the IRSN report to which you refer. This report confirms that MYRRHA will be able to help ensure the safety of these future nuclear reactors and "serve as a tool for the irradiation of structural and fuel materials in fast spectra". In a 246-page report, it is always possible to isolate a sentence or paragraph from its context to serve its purpose. Nevertheless, your question highlights, better than I could have done, the need to invest in advanced nuclear research in order to find a safe and sustainable solution to our most dangerous nuclear waste. Accelerator-driven systems such as MYRRHA will be more effective in reducing the radiotoxicity of these wastes than current and even fourth generation nuclear reactors. That is why we consider it important to invest in innovative research projects, such as MYRRHA, in order to avoid the transmission of nuclear waste to future generations without having done everything possible to reduce their danger today. MYRRHA will be a unique tool, which will allow us to study the transmutation of our most dangerous nuclear waste and, if this research succeeds, help optimize its storage in deep geological layers. As such, the ACATECH report concludes positively on the contribution of transmutation by accelerator-driven systems and recommends Germany's participation in European projects such as MYRRHA. This report is now available on the Academy's website and serves as the basis for ongoing discussions with the relevant German ministries. During the mission to Japan of Prime Minister Michel and Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, the question of Japan's participation in the MYRRHA project was discussed with the Deputy Minister of Education, Culture and Technology and Mr Miyazawa, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, as well as with the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr Shinzo Abe. Japan confirmed its interest in the MYRRHA project and, on that occasion, it was decided to establish a joint high-level working group between the two countries to find the appropriate form to formalize Japanese participation in MYRRHA. A first preparatory meeting was held in Brussels on 10 June in the presence of representatives of the Directorate-General for Energy, the National Bank, the Science Policy and the SCK-CEN for Belgium and representatives of the Deputy Minister of Education, Culture and Technology and Japan Atomic Energy Agency for Japan. This meeting took place in a very constructive climate where it became clear that our two countries share the same ambition in research on the transmutation of the most dangerous nuclear waste. It was agreed that the first working meeting of the joint working group would be held in Tokyo during the last half of August to formally launch the working group. Thus, each country would have been able to take advantage of the presence of this working group before starting this work very officially. This meeting will also be an opportunity for the Belgian delegation, led by the SPF Economy Directorate-General, to visit the sites where future Japanese nuclear waste transmutation research facilities will soon be built to identify avenues for collaboration between our two countries. It is obviously too early today to predict when Japan's participation will be a reality. But the Deputy Prime Minister, Kris Peeters, and I are very hopeful that these negotiations will be concluded. As provided for in the Government Agreement, I commit, on the basis of the MYRRHA 2010-2014 report that was forwarded to me and the recommendations of the MYRRHA follow-up group, to submit to the government a proposal to continue the funding of this project for the period 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u108	Mr President, Minister, I note that Mrs Smaers is also trying to present MYRRHA primarily as a solution for our nuclear waste, while I believe there is a general conscience that, for the nuclear waste that is already vitrified, MYRRHA can never be a solution. For those who rely on a core exit in 2025, the argument about transmutation and half-life is dropped, although that argument is becoming increasingly important in the reasoning of the believers of MYRRHA. The bulk of the waste is glazed and vitrified waste can no longer be reduced in terms of duration or radioactivity. When it comes to waste, Madam Minister, you express your concern for future generations. For a minister who has just extended the lifespan of two old nuclear power plants and has already cast doubt on the nuclear exit in 2025, that sounds quite hypocritical. If you were serious about the waste bill for future generations, you would not have extended the life of those two reactors by ten years. I note that there is a lot of talk with foreign investors, at least with Germany and Japan. However, three and a half years after the end of the deadline for attracting foreign investors in 2012, there is no concrete commitment in this respect. That strengthens me in my belief that there is no great appetizer for this project. I can't wait to see how that's gonna end. Certainly from Germany it would surprise me, given the Energy Week, that it would put its financial shoulders under this project. Are we gonna wait any longer than we already do? It is above all that last point that I would like to raise. The fact that we have been waiting for so long and that there has been uncertainty about the MYRRHA project for a number of years now, the fact that no foreign resources have been found for this, the fact that funding by the federal government has also ended, all this means that the SCK is currently financing that project with its own resources. In this way, MYRRHA might become more life-threatening than life-assurance for the Nuclear Energy Study Centre. Like your predecessor, you have tolerated and even fed that uncertainty. I do not think this is a good thing. I repeat my plea to develop a new vision for the study centre. You are talking about extending the subsidies for MYRRHA. At the end of your reply, you said you were going to ask the government. Is that in the context of the 2016 budget or is there going to be an additional budget amendment in which you are going to submit it? That was not clear to me on the basis of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u109	The IKW are still in progress; the idea is to cover the financial period 2015-2016 and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u110	Madam Secretary, that means that you want to achieve continuity. The period 2010-2014 is over and you want to subsidise again from 2015 onwards. I do not believe that this is clear, nor is it a good thing to want to put funds back on the table at a time when there is no commitment from foreign investors and there is no agreement from the Nuclear Research Centre. I would like to invite you to look again at the aspect of the management agreement. The SCK has been operating for years without an administrative agreement, although it still receives considerable resources from the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u111	Madam Minister, I understand that the working party is still fully engaged in preparing cooperation between Japan and Belgium on the possible trajectory and funding for MYRRHA and related projects. I am certainly waiting for the work of that group, because I think it is important to give this consultation every opportunity. Japan shares, as you said, a certain vision with Belgium in relation to nuclear research. I also believe that Japan will be very interested in the disposal of nuclear waste and could therefore also be a worthy partner for financing. For the time being, therefore, I shall defer further discussions on this matter. Finally, I note that the interviews in the Interkabinets Working Group on the budget and the inclusion of subsidies for the MYRRHA project are in full swing. I will await the results and question you again in the course of the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u112	Question No 4779 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u113	Minister, in our plenary discussions on extending the life of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants, we were opposed to an incident concerning the content of the decision taken by the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents in the Greenpeace case. That's what I'm talking about. You stated that the final decision contained only one paragraph when we stated that it contained three paragraphs, the last of which explained that there was no exception and that the requested documents should in principle be made public. Clearly, the services that prepared your intervention had not informed you of the last two paragraphs, although, as noted, this matter was known to you and the conclusions were available on the Commission's website. Not knowing whether the fault was attributable to the Commission, your firm or your administration, you made a two-time commitment to carry out an internal investigation and to inform us of the result. So I'm coming back to you for the results of this investigation and the follow-up you gave to it. Did your firm properly receive the "Greenpeace" decision and on what date? Why is there no mention of this text in the plenary reply that was proposed to you by your staff or by the administration? What has been the 'point of communication', to repeat your remarks in plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u114	I would like to stop you because you seem to be adding questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u115	I'll make it clear. I'm still trying to update the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u116	Your question is dated 24 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u117	I would like to clarify the elements on which the results of the investigation are based.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u118	We're not in the Senate. We don't have to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u119	I am not bound by the original text. I'm good in the context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u120	It seems to be disturbing. It is also the freedom of speech of deputies, article 58 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u121	I don't mind. Not at all. I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u122	The stamp was affixed on 9 June. Have you installed the system of indication referred to by Mr Delperée in his speech in plenary session? What is the other evidence of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u123	Madam Minister, I will say something more than the written version of my question, as it is normally allowed in this House. During the plenary session of 17 June 2015, we were able to take note of a strange incident, in particular the discussion about the Federal Appeals Committee's rulings and decisions regarding access to environmental information. These are two procedures or dossiers, namely the Meeussen dossier, journalist, and the Greenpeace dossier. Although you referred regularly to the Greenpeace dossier during your intervention, you did not seem to have or wish to have any knowledge of the ruling in the Greenpeace file. Our group has provided you with the relevant documents, in line with recent weeks, so that you could take note of them. You also felt that it is not the ideal way to work that you should get documents that have been on the FPS Home Affairs website for ten days and which are also aimed at you in principle at the moment when there is a ruling, in plenum from the opposition. That was a little too much for you, even. At that time, you announced that you would organise an internal investigation in order to study more closely the actual progress of the dossier. It's important that we get that clarity. I have the following specific questions. What are the conclusions of the announced internal investigation? In the meantime, has there been any contact with the Federal Appeals Committee for access to environmental information? If so, what have these contacts yielded? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u124	Mr President, let us return first to the meeting on 17 June 2015 concerning the communication of a decision, to my knowledge at that time - all the words are weighed - bearing the date of 9 June 2015. It's not tens of days. It's twelve days. Secondly, with regard to the debate itself, I would like to remind you that there is a prerequisite which is absolutely essential in your question and which I will allow myself to add. It consists of saying - something you apparently knew, and I didn't - that there were two decisions; I remember perfectly well that during the debate you said to me: "You are referring to two applicants, Mr Meeusen (who is not a journalist) and the Greenpeace association". I began to understand at that time - the internal investigation that I conducted in my firm subsequently revealed to me - that I had actually received - it was a human error - two decisions. You knew it before me and better than me and you chose, you, to explain only Greenpeace's decision! While I had not chosen to set out the decision that was rendered at the request of this so-called journalist, Mr. Meeusen...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u125	I don't know what to say!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u126	It's in your economic logic: flexi-job, mini job, part-time, freelance!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u127	Mr Calvo, in the action introduced this Friday by the Dutch-speaking journalists' association, it is stated that Mr Meeusen has no profession. What should I call that? This is the reason why I say in all letters and in a purely objective way that the letter addressed by Mr Meeusen was not that of a journalist but that of a citizen like everyone else, who questions the communication of environmental information. That's the point. I continue my reasoning. You knew you had two decisions. In my office, having been investigated with an indica – which, as I replied to Mr Delperée, is not the stamp that you see appearing on both letters – it is clear that, by one mistake, a mistake that is human, several of my collaborators having had these decisions in their hands did not compare them to the end. You have allowed me, in plenary session, to realize that. As I told you in good faith, I had only one decision in front of me. Moreover, you yourself said: "Your services certainly did not inform you of the two decisions or of the existence of another decision". You read me the two additional paragraphs to the decision that I had in my hands, which, in turn, came out of the decision on Greenpeace's application. As I replied spontaneously to you in the sitting, these two paragraphs, of which you make a personal analysis, do not change legal reasoning. Indeed, it is an opinion committee which does not have a binding decision and which is the compulsory passage to the Council of State if one contests one or the other within the framework thus circumscribed of the request for access to environmental information. The Committee of Opinion found that it had not been able to examine the Convention which I had not forwarded to it. This is for the first decision that I was throwing the discredit on Belgium. As far as the second decision is concerned, you taught me that and I had the opportunity to read it afterwards, doing my internal inquiry and making the necessary remarks to the members of my cabinet who had not been until the end of the reading and who had considered that two decisions came as if they were the same, because all the paragraphs on the first pages, you will agree with me, are almost copy-paste. Two additional paragraphs are added to the decision you read to me. The first paragraph states that the Minister must organize herself to decide who, officially, will receive and respond to the requests of the administrative commissions. Finally, lastly, information with environmental content must in principle be made public, thus recalling a principle of action contained in the 2006 Act, which is only obviously the transposition of European directives and which leads to the formation of this particular Administrative Commission operating within the same administrative framework as, for example, the Administrative Commission known as CADA, established in the framework of the publication of administrative acts under the 1994 Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u128	Mr President, the mistake is human, the lie too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u129	Mr. Nollet,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u130	Minister, I have the floor and I will continue because my remarks are not inappropriate. You don't have the floor! You have asked to respect your speaking time and I ask the same thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u131	I'll ask you not to use the term "sense."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u132	Mr President, it is unlikely!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u133	This is an extremely serious term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u134	Mr President, if I can prove my point, I can use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u135	You do not have to demonstrate this and that is what is scandalous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u136	Mr President, I ask you to silence the minister, I have the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u137	You'll have to deal with me personally!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u138	I have the floor... go ahead, minister! [[Brouhahaha]] Come, if you have anything to say! You're talking nonsense! Calm down!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u139	It's unbearable, your way of addressing me as a person and as a...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u140	Calm down, I can't hear the president anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u141	Don't use the term "sense" anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u142	Mr. President, I can use the terms I wish, if I can...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u143	There are terms that should not be spoken in this chamber and...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u144	Mr President, as I say again, error is human and lies too. I don't see what you can take away from me. I'm going to expand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u145	(...) You use this notion so in turn, sir...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u146	Mr President, I repeat, error is human and lies too. Minister, you say you didn't know about the Greenpeace case, but what about the three previous decisions? Because here we are at the final decision. Previously, there have been three decisions in this case, but that was totally unknown. Let's move on. Now I come to my demonstration. The minister tells us here in committee "You knew, Mr. Calvo, Mr. Nollet, about the Greenpeace case, I did not". "Not me," she said. I'll read...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u147	There was a different decision. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u148	What you said is recorded, and what I said is recorded, too. Both will be in the report. I will therefore read to you what you yourself said in plenary on 23 June, and I read: "This agreement was, at the express request of investors, concluded under the seal of confidentiality. On December 19, a journalist...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u149	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u150	Let me read; as always, the minister will be entitled to the reply and the parliamentarian too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u151	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. "On 19 December 2014, a journalist, Mr. Christophe Meeusen, requested access to this convention on the basis of the law of 5 August 2006 on public access to environmental information." That's what you're talking about. I continue: "On 14 January 2015, a similar request was initiated by Greenpeace, represented by Mr Cappelle. Greenpeace's request was particularly wide since it also requested access to documents relating to this convention and to the extension of the Tihange 1 plant - such as e-mails, mails, the negotiation agenda, etc. – for the period from 1 January 2013 to 14 January 2014". How can you say, when you said it in plenary, that you did not know the Greenpeace case? You yourself have used the latter in your plenary response. It's not just human error!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u153	Mrs Marghem does have a special way of making things right with Parliament. I continue to be surprised at that. Each his style, Madam Secretary. Now it appears that your cabinet was aware of the decision, including in the second Greenpeace procedure. I therefore regret that you were unable or unwilling to make that clear at the plenary session of two weeks ago. I know that you are trying to reduce the various debates to a personal fight between yourself and our group. That's it for me and for us absolutely not. Not even this. I do not regard this as a clash between two politicians, but I do find it problematic because it concerns a contract on which an official transparency watchdog has spoken. There is a cost of hundreds of millions of euros attached to it. Then I think it is a very logical question whether you have been informed about this and whether you are properly informing Parliament about it. No more and certainly no less. I would certainly invite you to answer the question put by the Federal Appeals Committee in that decision, in particular to ensure that it is made public, not only on the convention itself, but also on the administrative documents associated with it. From the letters we received from Mr Mestrallet and Mr GDF, I conclude that you did not actually ask that question and that you yourself directed it on the slope of the data room. I think that the suggestion of the Federal Committee of Appeals on this matter is a lot better, more democratic and more transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u154	I understand that this would not be a dispute between people. In any case, if it does not bear the name, it has all the appearances. This dispute has lasted too long and I thank the President for his intervention because we must return to the path of professional communication, respectively. I am informed by a quote received from my office that Mr Meeusen, together with the Association of Dutch-speaking Journalists, refers the Belgian State to the Brussels Court of First Instance sitting on remand. It is by reading this quotation that I discover that the journalistship that Mr Meeusen said he had in the letters he had previously addressed exists only in his desire and not in reality, since the profession informed, as it is by law in all acts of justice, indicates that he does not have a profession. It's a first thing. I'm limited to the facts. When you say that I knew the Greenpeace case, I did know it, but you don't want to hear that if I knew the Greenpeace case and the case of whatdam Meeusen, I didn't know, and I said it, that there were two decisions, which would have been possible since the requests were almost the same. In my office, that's exactly what happened. Two almost identical documents have arrived and people in my office – the mistake is human – have looked at these documents without probably going to the end, seeing, and you will see yourself, that these documents are almost copy-paste in all their paragraphs, except obviously the last three paragraphs for your decision, the one you knew or more precisely the one you used in the debate on 17 June. The other decision was the only one I knew, when I knew the cases related to these two requests. So I knew only one decision, I repeat. And it was on that basis, because I showed it to Jan Jambon at that time, that there was a debate on this subject. I repeat that the difference between these two decisions does not change the principle of recalling that this committee is an administrative committee which has no binding power. It is only a committee of opinion. The only binding power, if any, exists in the head of the Council of State whose route of access is to bring an action before that commission, which was done. It will be up to those who so wish to take the necessary remedies then, in relation to an objective dispute before the ad hoc court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u155	Mr President, I will continue to say that this is a substantive dispute for me and not a personal dispute. I don't need personalities or temperamental personalities to hunt me down in this file or in the substantive choices and the course of the past few months. I have tried to make the arguments of my group and myself clear in this debate. Madam Minister, even if you are not convinced and I have a different legal view on the dossier, then you can decide for yourself whether to be transparent. This seems to me to be a logical and normal question in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u156	Madam Minister, according to the electronic edition of the newspaper L'Echo of 12 June, an amount of EUR 57 million would have been foreseen in the Tihange 1 Convention to cover studies related to the extension of the life of nuclear power plants. I confess that I scarved my eyes in front of such a height. What are these multiple studies? Who led them, who coordinated them? Who awarded the contracts? What is the amount spent on legal studies? In short, how is this envelope divided between technical studies and legal studies? At your press conference on 22 June, you said that the Tihange 1 convention was negotiated in such a way that "it will not bring much to the state". I would like to know the calculation and methodology used to arrive at such a conclusion. I would also like to know the most precise amount possible from your calculation. How much will this convention bring back to the State this year and in subsequent years? Finally, I would like to know what amendments you intend to make to the future convention on Doel 1 and Doel 2 since it has apparently been negotiated in such a way that it will not bring much back to the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u157	If you have seen this amount of 57 million appear in the electronic edition of the newspaper L的Echo of 12 June and if you have possibly linked it to content, as it is confidential content, I obviously cannot express on this subject. The law provides us with a lot of information that I will develop to answer your second question. The main elements of the annual fee for the extension of Tihange 1's operating life are set out in the Act of 31 January 2003, as amended by the Act of 18 December 2013. The Convention shall specify the methods of calculation. These main elements are the following: the law specifies that the first period will concern the period from 1 October to 31 December 2015, period not yet started today; the CREG is responsible for a mission to verify revenues and expenses; the fee will be due on 15 April of the year following the period, i.e. 15 April 2016 in our case. Thus, both the amounts for the first period not yet started today and for subsequent periods are not known to date. The law specifies that the fee is 70% of the positive difference between the proceeds from the sale of electricity at Tihange 1 and the sum of the actual operating expenses, the depreciation related to the required youth investments and the remuneration of these investments to cover the cost of the capital mobilized. Estimates of the cost of youth investments have already been announced by the operator. Finally, the operating costs of nuclear power plants have already been the subject of several analyses in the past and allow the order of magnitude and low variability to be assessed. As regards the sale price of electricity, Article 4/1(2) of the Law stipulates that the proceeds of the sale of electricity from the power plant shall be established on the basis of the maximum production of the power plant at a availability of 100 % which shall be deemed to be sold at market price for one third of the term two years in advance, for one third of the term one year in advance, and for one third of the day before the day of production. This product is regulated according to the quantity actually produced by taking into account the price of the volumes purchased to compensate for volumes not produced during periods of unavailability. In taking these assumptions, it appears that the royalty depends very heavily on electricity prices, which are currently depressed in both futures and spot markets and have even fallen to less than 40 euros per megawatt/hour for the months of May and June 2015 (Belpex Day Ahead Market reference). At this stage, these forward-looking data can only be simulated, estimated, what I have done. Given their current state, and without evolution, they lead me to draw the conclusion you cited, that the values will be known with certainty when the period falls, that is, early 2016, after the control of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u158	Mr. Chairman, I have two lines of reply. First of all, with regard to the sentence that the minister maintains and that she supports with her reply on the extension of Tihange 1 which has been negotiated in such a way that it will not bring much to the state. As far as I know, his party was part of the government that negotiated this convention! Secondly, there is a real political problem. Minister, you say this is confidential and cannot be discussed. However, this element is public since it is mentioned in a newspaper article. We're in a node that might become inextricable. As a parliamentarian, I can't leave it there. This will obviously go beyond the framework of this committee. It's nothing personal. This has to do with the obstacles that are placed to prevent us from doing our job. An element is published in the press but we are told that it is confidential. This is unacceptable! It is unthinkable to work this way!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u159	Mr President, in order to save us some time, I propose that the minister give me the written answers to my questions Nos. 5390, 5391 and 5393.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u160	Madam Minister, when you were working in committee on the bill to extend the life of Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants, you announced that the calls for tenders for the establishment of the strategic reserve were gradually returning to a capacity of between 1,200 and 2,000 MW, in addition to the 750 MW originally planned and without regard to a capacity of 341 MW from gas-fired power plants that were returning to operation. It was not my surprise to learn in June that this capacity from 1,200 MW to 2,000 MW had been reduced to only 800 MW. Can you give me a list of the projects that were recorded to reach 2,000 MW two months ago and that are no longer on the list today? Can you explain to me what justifies this fall and the reasons for each withdrawal? Can you tell me whether the CREG has already done its job of validating the tenders submitted? If not, what is the forum that led to such a reduction? Finally, at what time and under what terms will CREG carry out its screening?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u161	Minister, since my question has a lot of numbers, I will speak slowly. In accordance with the law of 26 March 2014, Elia is required to conduct a security of supply study for the coming winter periods. To do so, it must identify needs and calibrate the strategic reserve. On November 14, 2014, Elia assessed the strategic reserve for the 2015-2016 winter. You know the figures: from 1,500 to 1,700 MW if Doel 3 and Tihange 2 are available; from 3,500 to 3,700 MW if they are not. These forecasts are based on peak demand, an estimated average of 14,475 MW for next winter, and an import capacity at the time of winter peaks of 2,700 MW. The two scenarios selected by Elia do not take Doel 1 into account because he thinks the reactor will be unavailable this winter. DG Energy also had to submit a study on security of supply and confirmed Elia's figures. These two opinions were taken up in the ministerial order of 15 January to increase the strategic reserve to 3,500 MW, i.e. 2,750 MW in addition to the 750 MW already present in the said reserve, which was established last year. Before the Economy Commission on 24 March, Elia confirmed its estimates of 3,500 MW. During the debate in committee on 5 and 6 May, you announced that 341 MW from gas-fired power plants, originally scheduled to be out of the market, were returning to operation. In plenary session on 17 June, you announced that at the 750 MW of last winter's reserve, 800 MW would be added following the results of the call for tenders launched on 15 January. You also announced that at this time 1,550 MW of strategic reserve will be added to Drogenbos. On 17 June, you summarized the situation as follows: "In our small household account, we are now at 2,391 MW, or 1,100 less than expected in the 3,500 MW". At a press conference, held jointly with Elia on June 21, you added new elements such as the 600 MW reduction in the state-of-the-art consumption estimate in 2015-2016. Apparently, this re-evaluation by Elia of the forecast of peak demand was unknown to you five days earlier because you were not talking about it and, unless I was mistaken, you did not mention it in plenary. If I repeat the accounts on the basis of this information, we start from 3,500 MW for 2015 and 2016, we reduce by 863 MW, we deduct 600 MW following the re-evaluation of Elia, we deduct the 1,550 MW from the strategic reserve, as contracted for winter 2015-2016 and there are 487 MW missing! At the same time, Elia announced an increase in peak import capacity from the Netherlands from 2,750 MW to 3,400 MW. Based on all this information – which was fully included in the question – I will ask you the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u162	(...) Could you ask me to be printed on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u163	That is why I wanted to detail the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u164	The secretariat has the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u165	Don't you have my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u166	I'd like to have the question in front of me because I don't have it here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u167	That's because I'm not used to asking long questions. I usually ask very short questions. But on this question, there is a lot of different information, Mr President, I apologize. I'll take a look at the questions. It was precisely so that the minister could have all the data to ensure that her answer was complete, even if she did not mention everything, and that I could receive it to try to understand. Minister, do you confirm the figure of 487 MW? Will you restart a call for tenders to meet the needs of the reserve? What about compliance with the LOLE standard? At this press conference, you were confident about Doel 1. You've already been questioned about this. Do you have any evidence to say that Doel 1 will be available for next winter, while neither Elia nor DG Energy have included it in their calculations? Can you give me more details, but I'd be surprised if you didn't get the question, the 1,550 MW of the strategic reserve for 2015-2016? Is this figure definitive? What is the distribution between production and demand management? What is the estimated overall cost and cost to the consumer of the strategic reserve? The timing and providential nature of Elia's re-evaluation is an issue since you did not mention this at the plenary session on 17 June. When did you become aware of the new estimate of Elia which leads to a reduction of the needs of 600 MW for next winter? Has the Energy DG validated these Elias figures? Can you tell us what justifications gave you Electrabel for the re-marketing of the Drogenbos, Les Awirs and d'Herdersbrug power plants? Are these rebates only planned for the winter of 2015-16 or is a multi-year commitment planned? Elia announced an increase in import capacity. How can he get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u168	Mr President, I confirm the answer I have already given earlier. With regard to the total eligible bids analysed by Elia as part of the strategic reserve for the period 2015-2016, this figure starts at 1,318.8 MW. After Elia's analysis, and pending that of CREG, it falls to 804.8 MW. This is the figure, not yet definitive, of the strategic reserve for next winter. As regards the return to the market of the two units of Drogenbos, this amounts to 508 MW. You said 513. We're not gonna start fighting for a few megawatts. For my part, producers who, after announcing their closure decision, return to the market – as is also the case for the 341 MW of Electrabel who had announced, along with others, the shutdown of 1,600 MW for the coming winter – are welcome. I believe that they should be welcomed as good news. Moreover, they do not have to justify their decision, whether or not it is linked to the risk of a penalty of EUR 4 500 per MW/hour for those responsible for balance. There's definitely something there to dig. The continued deterioration of the profitability of conventional units poorly placed in the merit order has meant that, gradually, these units leave the market, leaving us with a largely insufficient production stock in response to demand. Who can blame these producers? What have we done to make our market attractive by studying other avenues? That is, in any case, what I am currently working on; I will tell you what I will have learned in the coming months. I therefore do not wonder about the motivations of those who return to the market, but about the means to be deployed so that they do not leave it and that others return to it. To this end, of course, I work in collaboration with my administration and the sector. Now I'm getting to the numbers. Let us first see what Elia has, how she calculates and how the required volume is reached. Elia works according to the law and in a probabilistic attitude, tracing perspectives and not like DG Energy. The latter works quite differently, as if it were doing the accounts of a household. That's how she sets a parallel between what she has and what she doesn't have. It also raises the question of what it needs. Elia has the strategic reserve of 700 MW for 2014 for three years, the return of the means of production to the market for 850 MW, i.e. the 341 plus the 508. It is also a question for Elia of updating the demand and flexibilisation. That's something I didn't know about. These are, in fact, the measures that we can take but which, in my view, are extreme. They make it possible to turn off public lighting for the federal and public lighting of municipalities and provinces for regionalized territories, as well as private lighting in shops. These "penalty" measures, in a way, affect not only those who overestimate their capacity but also make investors decide to return to the market, rather than to be in the strategic reserve, or vice versa - both effects exist, I have learned. These extreme flexibility measures, which come after a seven-day notice period before a discharge, you will remember, allow, according to Elia, according to their statistical calculation, to obtain 600 MW of capacity, i.e. non-consumption. (...): At least there had to be a first experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u169	Doel 1, you know, which has been heavily commented on, was not initially taken into account by Elia in November 2014 in the calculation of the strategic reserve for the following winter. You know I have to make a decision before December 31. As a result, I put 433 MW. The 2015 strategic reserve is for the moment, as I have told you, 804.8 MW to my knowledge. This makes a total of 2,433 MW for Elia, adding up the MW that you can benefit from and those that you can't, which are not considered in the probabilistic calculation. I give three additional elements to your sagacity. First, at times, during very cold episodes on the Antwerp area, the transport capacity of the lines can be increased as the drivers are cooled. Lines heat less as the earth and air are cold. This additional capacity is not taken into account in the calculation of Elias, being not permanent, but it has the advantage of existence precisely when weather conditions are those where peaks are observed, i.e. when they are necessary. Secondly, in the same way, thanks to the technical device for monitoring and monitoring lines called AMPACIMON, which enables oscillations and temperatures to be seen, this interconnection capacity can reach more than 2,700 MW and even above 3,500 MW. It must be very cold, we must monitor the lines carefully, we must be able to load, and on the other hand, there must be electricity generation that makes it possible to pass through the wires. This latter figure cannot be kept constant since we must consider the powers which can transit through our network from the Netherlands to France. I say this constantly because technical and meteorological circumstances do not allow it and when the lines are open, a number of megawatts/hour – Elia will explain it to you on July 14th at the hearing – pass to France. It's capacity we don't take. Finally, I would like to commend the work done by Elia, who, by the unexpected use of equipment intended for the Brabo 1 tranche – the famous 700 MW with the two series PST – but not yet put into service, allows to place two PSTs in series, to increase impedance, that is, the strength of resistance at the northern border of our country of the electrons coming from the Netherlands, and to divert these electrons eastward to recover them at the Belgian border by the Van Eyck post. It is therefore a loop and instead of transiting to France, we recover these megawatts by the Van Eyck post. At the northern border, there is Zandvliet, there is a line that allows to have an interconnection but when the valves are fully opened, there are 700 MW that go to France. By putting two PSTs, by putting two transformers-dephasers in series, one creates a resistance and one against the easy path that the electrons take, thus creating a loop that allows this power to be recovered in Belgium by the Van Eyck post which is a little further, further to the east. Mr Vandenbergh, who will come on 14 July, will explain this to you in detail. This obviously depends on what is provided. They were cautious and calculated between 500 and 700 MW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u170	But it was already planned. When they came in March, they had already talked about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u171	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u172	Is that new?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u173	Indeed, it is a new technical configuration that they implement using two TSPs, transformers-dephasers, which have arrived on site, which are the same, I suppose, that Mr Woitrin wanted to use on Doel 1, 2, 3 and 4's emergency line. They are set up in order to strengthen the strength of the line in the north of our country, to avoid overheating accidents of the lines and to create a loop allowing to recover the megawatts. That's how I was told.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u174	Is that 700 MW more than what Elia came to present in March?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u175	I come to DG Energy. This is the concrete aspect of "household accounts": what do we have, what are we sure we have and what do we need? Our production fleet has a capacity to install 11,602 MW according to the Energy DG survey. The power of the units in this amount is affected, depending on the type of unit, by a correction factor taking into account its greater or lesser availability in order to integrate the risk of failure or other event that would decrease the power – particularly for renewable energy, intermittent energy, etc. The availability factor is still very strict. On this basis, DG Energy takes into account, as an available and reliable capacity, a total power to which it adds the other elements. Thus, the total power, which already includes the 341 MW of Electrabel returned in the market and D 1, makes 9,729 MW. I'll align the numbers and I can give you the little table. It'll be a little easier. Imports amount to 2,700 MW. They take what they are the sure ones to get. The 2014 strategic reserve was 750 MW, while this year it is 800 MW. This will still vary a little, but probably not a lot. The return of Drogenbos is equivalent to 500 MW. Updating demand and flexibility amounts to 600 MW. Of course, they did their calculations based on the state of their knowledge. We come to 15,079 MW, to which we subtract the 1,000 MW we have to keep due to our international obligations. We thus arrive at a total of 14,079 MW. The amount to be taken into account varies between 13,733 MW or 13,900 MW at the peak in winter and is covered by production, according to the calculations of DG Energy, net and reliable – adding all these means – of 14,079 MW. That is why I said that we were just coming: between 13 133 or 13 900 and 14 079, you have to a few megawatts the adequacy, in the calculation of DG Energy, between the means of production and the necessities. Elia is conducting evaluations for the strategic reserve. My calculation earlier was to know what our needs were and on the basis of which methodology we assess the strategic reserve requirements in Belgium. The Energy DG makes a completely different calculation: we need as much, we have as much; is that enough? What's missing? If we removed from this count the 866 megawatts of Doel 1 and Doel 2, we would lose those 866 MW of 14,079 since I counted them. This is even more serious because next spring we will lose 480 MW of Langerlo. We've already talked about this in our debates. This is the situation in the Energy DG account and this is how Elia calculates the probability of strategic reserve and needs. I didn't take your numbers back. I can't present my picture and compare it with your figures... my action is the one I presented to the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u176	Minister, we would like to receive a copy of the chart to see more clearly. On the other hand, you say that you welcome the return of the plants whose closure was announced. As far as I'm concerned, I'm much more reserved and I think some people are playing yo-yo. I am thinking here of Electrabel, who says that she will close and thus exert pressure to then decide not to close. It is for this reason that the CREG requested that you put in place a mechanism to avoid this phenomenon of yo-yo as well as market disruptions. For me, this kind of practice is not welcome. This is proof that some people have fun getting out, then getting in, and taking their own interests into account rather than the public interest. Finally, I understand the idea that we are more informed after a first period of risk of discharge than before. However, Elia forgot to take into account last year's demand management capacity. I can still hear you telling me that, anyway, if we were to turn off the public lighting on highways, etc., we wouldn't gain much. Unfortunately, I don't have the numbers in mind anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u177	There are 250 MW for communal lighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u178	This occurs at the end of the journey, with a 7-day advance notice, in the case of a discharge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u179	Here, in total, the volume is obviously more interesting. I am still surprised when I think of the fact that, last year, Elia did not consider that in cold times her capacity was greater. It's a physical law that Elia knows better than we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u180	This is a possibility that is not accounted for in their calculations. I invite you to ask them about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u181	I fully agree, but if we could have a copy of the table, that would allow us to be more precise in the rest of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u182	Minister, the fact that the numbers change all the time is a problem for me. Elia's assessment changes absolutely all the time, with physical laws that seem identical to us from one winter to the next. I followed the whole issue of demand management and relief plans. We've had dozens of hours of audition. We have never been told that public lighting can suddenly reduce 600 MW. On the other hand, we cannot cut the lighting on all the streets either. It is Elia who, at some point, must be able to compile and tell us so that both the government and the parliament can have a certainty. That is what we are going to ask him on 14 July. You also said, "As long as Drogenbos returns to the market." I agree with you. Jean-Marc Nollet talked about a yo-yo game. The question of the need for retirement and re-entry motivations would have to be asked in order to have winter certainty in winter. Since DG Energy has done the "households" calculation, we could perhaps invite him on 14 July. What's missing seems weak for this winter. Instead, demand flexibility is needed, rather than continuous production such as nuclear power. But this is another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u183	I have two things to say. First of all, 866 MW of Doel 1 and 2 and Langerlo next spring, that is 1,400 MW. We have to anticipate it. Although it is not clear why Doel 1 and 2 would have been necessary, this is the answer and the point I can make. Secondly, with regard to the strategic reserve, I answered a question earlier on the willingness to change the way it works. We want to amend the law to make it work better to avoid these in/out problems that seem difficult to explain and admit. When I say "like," I want to be completely respectful of everyone because whenever there is one coming back to the market, I'm happy. The goal is to try to strengthen demand management and involve it increasingly, with the integration of new behaviours and capabilities, in the strategic reserve. All this has to happen after that, since we have only just transposed the European directive into the draft laws that we voted on on 18 June, alongside the extension of Doel 1 and 2, allowing the CREG to set things up so that the barriers that are now in place and which prohibit companies that manage demand from participating actively in the market or strategic reserve are removed and that they can be used as much as possible. I hope that over the years, we will see things coming differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u184	Mr President, in the course of committee work on the bill to extend the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants, you announced that Electrabel had suddenly decided to maintain a capacity of 341 MW from gas plants that had just left the power plant. A few weeks later, we learn that in addition to these 341 MW, the 508 MW of Drogenbos will remain on the market. "Dirty decision" as a reporter from the Evening who, I suppose, has the press card could have written. Indeed, this is the second time in a few weeks that Electrabel has changed his plans. Minister, why have these plants been considered unprofitable a few months ago today? What is the reliability of the list you gave us at the time? Can you now assure us that the list of plants that will be closed is final? And if not, when will this list become final?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u185	Mr President, as I begin this question, I would like to return to the 700 MW that the minister spoke of earlier in relation to the debates last week. We talked about transformers-dephasers at the plenary meeting on the energy debate. A confirmation from you would be welcome, Madam Minister. While more than 1,600 MW of conventional power plants had to close before this winter for lack of profitability, Electrabel has changed its mind for three plants (Drogenbos, Herdersbrug, Les Awirs) and four turbojets that will eventually remain in the production portfolio of Electrabel next winter. In total, 863 MW are returning to the electricity generation market, i.e. the equivalent of Doel 1 and 2 reactors (866 MW). Minister, what are the reasons for Electrabel's sudden change of strategy? Did they tell you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u186	Mr President, gentlemen, your questions come a little after the answer I have already given to which I am obviously referring. It is up to you to put them down for the record. I repeat briefly: producers who, after announcing their closure decision, return to the market are welcome. They do not have to justify their decision, whether or not it is related to the risk of penalty. The continued deterioration of the profitability of conventional units, poorly placed in the merit order, has meant that they have gradually left our market, leaving us with a largely insufficient production stock on demand. Who can blame these producers? What have we done to make our market attractive? I therefore wonder about the motivations of those who return to the market. I wonder how to deploy so that they don't leave him anymore and for others they come back. And I am, of course, working to find solutions in close cooperation with my administration and the sector. As far as the reasons are concerned, I repeat that, in my view, one of the reasons is that we should, and we are in the process of preparing a text that changes the configuration of the strategic reserve, which, in its current configuration, poses obstacles that result in such reactions at some point in time. Therefore, by making this strategic reserve more appropriate, we will have those who have to be there and who are there, those who are in the market and who will remain there, and a greater intervention of demand management in the percentage. At the moment, it is 40 per cent, that's not bad, but a little more would be welcome, if there is a means, in the strategic reserve of subsequent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u187	Minister, I will repeat that since mid-2014, CREG has been pointing the finger at the danger of this situation where operators can do yo-yo. In the meantime, nothing has been done, except that operators enjoy it all the time. I really do not see why we have not made any progress on this dimension, on this problem which you are identifying today but which is known and which has been signified by the CREG since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u188	We're working. There will be an umpteenth meeting on Friday in the continuum of this work which is linked to the evolution of the law on the strategic reserve, between CREG, Elia and DG Energy. We're not turning our thumbs around.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u189	Madam Minister, since you are referring to these meetings with the operator Electrabel and he has not discovered the reasons I mentioned in my question, could you not ask them again about this, because we will have an opportunity to meet again before 21 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u190	But yes, why not? We'll see what he's gonna say! I must confess that I am not raising the issue at this time, but it is no worse to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u191	Mr.President, Madam Minister, by the program law of December 19, 2014, the government decided to tax intercommunals. You know that we do not agree with this measure, especially for intercommunals whose purpose is the general interest and the well-being of citizens. Recently, the government has partially reversed this decision by removing from the scope of the Act a number of sectors, such as hospitals, institutions for the disabled and others. However, it has decided to maintain the water, gas, electricity, waste collection and sewage treatment sectors. It seemed to us, however, that all non-marketers could have been exempted. Madam Minister, it is true that you are not directly involved in this debate, since this is within the competence of the Minister of Finance. But we know that this decision will lead the intercommunals to increase the cost of energy. ORES talks about a 3% to 6% increase and EANDIS announces a €100 million impact on consumers. Minister, have you been consulted by the Minister of Finance following the decision to eliminate a series of sectors that do not include gas and electricity? Have you estimated the impact of this measure on households and businesses? What is your estimate of the budget performance expected by this type of ISOC tax? Do you not think that the increase in bills announced as a result of this federal tax is in contravention of the paragraph of the government's declaration promising to control the cost of energy to households and businesses? Finally, have you been consulted on a possible increase in the VAT rate on gas and electricity under the tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u192	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Lalieux, the decision to subject intercommunals to corporate tax is a decision of the government as a whole. In this, too, the government applies its government agreement. I'm not in all and for everything involved. Corporate tax has, of course, an impact on the operating costs of distribution system operators. This therefore goes beyond the federal jurisdiction, since this jurisdiction is purely regional. This impact can vary very much initially depending on the legal structure of this DRM. Some of them escape, depending on the legal person they have chosen, whether it is a cooperative society or possibly another legal form; this is important. This also varies according to the financial situation of the DSO, in particular its fair margin and therefore, above all, according to the tariff methodology adopted by the regulators in the three regions concerned. Obviously, the GRD does not get up one morning, saying: "I have extra costs, I make such a price for electricity". First in its cost structure and then in its work with the regulator, there are decisions that are made and regulated by law. The federal government does not intervene in these issues. Most of the time, taxes and other charges or surcharges set by federal or regional authorities are carried over to the consumer as they stand. Each regional regulator has communicated for its region and by GRD the impact of this new taxation of intercommunals, and therefore of GRDs, on electricity and natural gas distribution tariffs. As a reminder, these distribution rates were regionalized on January 1, 2014. With respect to your third question on the government's forecast of fiscal performance with respect to the imposition of intercommunal ISOC, I will not surprise you by telling you that I do not have any information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u193	It is certainly something of the order of 200 million euros! In any case, that is what is included in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u194	The Ministers of Budget and Finance must be questioned. In my view, both can be questioned according to different concepts. With regard to the fourth question on the energy standard, I have explained the work that I am trying to put in place, particularly with the Regions, through the energy vision and the pact, to work on the energy standard, that is to say, a standard that is accounting for the competitiveness of our companies and also the decent access of every citizen to the electric energy of the prices charged by our neighbours, or to try to have an interesting result. I am making every effort, together with my regional colleagues, within the inter-federal working group that we have set up within the framework of the vision, to control the cost of energy, in particular by improving market and competition conditions. I have spoken on several occasions about what we did on 8 June to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the pentalateral forum, by creating a coupled electricity market on the five countries of this forum (Benegal, France and Germany), which allows all electricity production in the same territory to be placed on a larger base. The aim is obviously to have a downside effect on the price of electricity, estimated at 90 million euros. It will allow prices in the wholesale market to continue to decline and, thanks to competitive market conditions, to have a decrease in this price of electricity, hence convenience. The aim is also to strengthen energy efficiency and demand control measures. Energy efficiency for the federal government is little. The only thing is the transposition of the directive that I have spoken of and the control of demand. It is also the management of this one through the Off/On campaign, etc. I use all the means I can but there are always the contributions that are added. When I spoke about storage earlier, I made all the details of what comes up with the price of convenience, which comes in addition to the price of electricity and which plays a part in the final price that the consumer pays. I don't know. As far as VAT is concerned, I do not hide from you that I would like to do so even though it is not given up to 21%, it would make life less difficult for me. But I'm not the only one who's involved in these extra or less re-entrys. I'm waiting to see what decisions will be made. I've already told you what I thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u195	Mr President, if I have read correctly what concerns regional regulators, it is clear that they will determine the tariffs for DSOs but there will be a direct transfer to the consumer. That's how I read their decision. Throughout the debate that took place during the previous parliamentary term - and I understand that the government wants to control the price of energy - it is regrettable that a decision to impose intercommunals on a budget issue directly affects households and businesses. We knew the consumer and the companies were going to pay. I find it totally contradictory with the control of the price of energy. This is totally unfair to households and businesses. Moreover, saying "it's not us, it's the Regions" does not really reflect a good federalism of cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u196	Companies will not pay, since it is VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u197	Mr. President, indeed. I was talking about distribution rates for households. I was swept away in my momentum, but that doesn't reassure me that households are paying for everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u198	Minister, I have come to ask you a lot about the IRE (Institute of Radioelements). It is internationally recognized for its activities as a provider of medical isotopes. A lot of hospitals need IRE's know-how. In order to continue its activities, however, it must be modernized, which requires additional financial resources. In its report on the 2015 budget, the Court of Auditors points out that the savings measures imposed this year on the IRE are particularly drastic, i.e. more than 83%! In the discussions on the 2015 draft budget, you acknowledged that these savings measures were particularly heavy. On March 3, 2015, I asked you again about the IRE situation. You replied, I quote: "Without questioning the objective of maintaining IRE's position as a world leader in radioisotope production, nor our obligations to the IRE that I very much care about, I will propose to the government, in agreement with IRE's management, to spread over the period 2015-2019, the financing of investments for the IRE and the financing of its technical liabilities. The appropriations for 2015 will be decided during the next budgetary control." Unfortunately, we have seen that budgetary control has not brought any solution to the IRE. After budgetary control, the issue of financing technical liabilities remains complete. As such, reference can be made to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 25 April 2014 to evacuate, in the short term, a quantity of irradiated uranium. It's a necessity. I come to my questions. What was your proposal for adjusted appropriations for the ERI during the budgetary control last March and why was this proposal rejected? What are the appropriations needed to cover the technical liabilities of the IRE up to the end of 2019? What proposals for additional appropriations are you going to make to the government in support of IRE funding and more specifically to finance technical liabilities? You talked earlier, I was there, about MYRRHA. Have there ever been intercabinets, especially because I have a little question about MYRRHA. What about this project? But I will read your answer since I had to go out for the question, it could actually have been attached to the MYRRHA question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u199	As far as MYRRHA is concerned, I'll answer you right away. The intercabinets working groups continue, they are not finished – there is still one next week, if not this week on MYRRHA. The idea is funding 2015-2016, but for the entire legislature. We really ask ourselves the question in a sustainable way, knowing that the law provides for funding each time, if there is one on one side, there is one on the other. And the needs are obviously known. I understand you were fighting for that, too. We continue our discussions through the intercabinet working groups to have the best possible solution. I will read out the answer I had prepared, which will partly overlap with what I have just said. The previous government had taken a decision in principle in this case without providing for the modalities of its financing, and successive previous governments had not been able to decide on structural financing of IRE's technical liabilities. When I took up this dossier, I found myself faced with a very difficult situation: decisions of principle and promises on a par, but no concrete financial commitment to the IRE. I have had an opportunity to discuss this at length with its President, who asked to see me, whom I have received, and who has exposed all this to me at length and wide. I also received the officials of MYRRHA. I have worked to find a real solution, I want to find a real solution for the financing of IRE's liabilities, in two stages: First of all, the arrears 2011-2014. The first proposal that I defended during the last budgetary control was first to provide for additional funding in order to pay the full amount of arrears accumulated over the period 2011-2014. I can confirm that I have obtained credits to pay these arrears as well as the corresponding VAT. For the 2015-2019 legislature, once these arrears had been settled, I tried to find the funding to implement the IRE's highly enriched irradiated uranium stock solution. The final management solution has not yet been finalized and is still being studied between IRE, ONDRAF, SCK-CEN and my administration. A comparative analysis of the different management solutions will be the subject of a final report which will be submitted to the IRE Minister within six to twelve months. So I want to make a long-term decision without being confined to a too short time frame. You are asking me if I have found a solution to this problem that my predecessors had failed to resolve, which I do not complain about. I have tabled a funding proposal on the government table that is currently under inter-cabinet discussion. The idea is to find sustainable funding for the entire legislature. With regard to the research infrastructure project for the future MYRRHA, I repeat what I have already communicated on several occasions within the framework of this commission; as provided for in the government agreement, I have committed to submit to it as soon as possible, a proposal to continue the funding of the MYRRHA project for the period 2015-2016. That has been done and my proposal is also the subject of inter-cabinet discussions. I will be happy to come back to you once I have, I hope, won to explain how the project is funded and how long it lasts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u200	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer. If I understand correctly, the liability is about $6 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u201	The 2011 to 2014 backlog plus VAT!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u202	So the 6 million plus VAT will be released for the IRE! This is provided for in the budget adjustment! There is a 2015 liability, which is even higher. Therefore, given this liability and the fact that the IRE does not have its accounts in balance, it cannot have access to loans or other loans, thus undermining the investments necessary for the survival of IRE's activities. I hear you don't want to rush to find a long-term solution. If you confirm to me that the 6 million will be released now, this is an important step for the IRE, but we must not wait for long months, because it prevents the IRE from continuing its activities, in any case considering the future in relation to investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u203	We try to work as quickly as possible and we call intercabinets. All of this, of course, gives rise to many discussions as you can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u204	Mr. Chair, Minister, the development of demand management must be seen as a key element of an efficient electricity market. The CREG has just received a general mission to encourage demand management and market participation. While in a reply to my predecessor, you mentioned the creation of the Energy Fund for Storage Research and Development, it must be noted that this Energy Transition Fund has too wide a scope for action. I therefore wonder about the added value in the development of electricity storage. Minister, have you already determined with CREG what actions will be taken to fulfill this mission? If so, what are they? If not, when will they be determined? How will you further promote the development of electricity storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u205	Mr. Chairman, there are two very separate dossiers. On the one hand, the creation of an energy fund, which we discussed at length in committee and whose principle of existence was adopted on 18 June. On the other hand, the new mission of the CREG under the Law on Various Provisions on Energy, also adopted on 18 June last in plenary session. As regards demand management and as a reminder, the Law on Various Provisions on Energy aims to extend, in the Electricity Act, the competence of CREG to enable it to encourage, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 15, 8 of Directive 2012/27/EU, resources relating to demand, such as consumer erasures, so that they can participate in the wholesale market in the same way as supply-related resources. This means encouraging access to demand management participation, particularly in terms of balance, reserve and other network service markets. All in compliance with the new European network codes. The competence of CREG is limited to the wholesale market. The retail market is the responsibility of the Regions. In other words, with this new competence, which I hope will yield the best results, the CREG will guarantee the non-discriminatory treatment of demand management products in all its markets and facilitate the penetration of these products alongside production. In particular, this will enable CREG to play a facilitating role between demand management actors and transmission system operators, or with other actors such as Elia and aggregators. In parallel with this new mission, CREG will have to work to comply with two additional tariff guidelines when developing the tariff methodology for transmission system operators. The law has the effect of imposing on CREG this encouragement of demand management and the non-discriminatory treatment of the latter. The CREG is therefore obliged to meet the guidelines and obligations imposed by law. However, I do not have any instructions to give to the independent regulatory authority, the CREG, as far as regulatory matters are concerned. It plays both the role of facilitator and market constable vis-à-vis all players at equal distance, including demand management. All this is controlled by Parliament, since you have the opportunity to ask the CREG about how it works during its annual report. With regard to the Energy Transition Fund, another quite distinct element, I would point out that the law passed on 18 June this year in plenary provides that the resources to be allocated to the Fund under project can only be used for measures to encourage and support research and development in innovative projects in the field of energy production and storage, for what they fall under the federal responsibility. These are new methods of energy production, such as tidal energy production or energy storage projects, as has already been extensively discussed in our work today. One way to help develop energy storage is to reduce the impact of regulatory barriers that hinder the development of projects. I have recently received a study from CREG on this subject, which identifies the measures that we could implement in the short term. I am analysing them in order to quickly determine what can be implemented to facilitate the development of these storage tools necessary for the stability of our network and security of supply. At this stage, it is premature to determine which project could be financed by this Transition Fund, since the discussions underlying the fee that will have to feed it and which is linked to the extension of Doel 1 and 2 are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u206	Minister, I agree with you that the CREG is independent. Nevertheless, the minister may request studies in connection with reflections made in this commission, which is made up of competent people. You can also ask him to calculate the nuclear rent, since it is one of his missions. I will come to you again to find out what conclusions you have drawn from the analysis that has been transmitted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u207	Minister, some suppliers sometimes adapt their product offerings by removing specific products from the market or adjusting the price without changing its name. These products then become what is called dormant products. As the CREG points out, sleeper products are no longer offered to new customers, but the current contracts remain active. The tariff sheets are no longer available and the sleeping product no longer appears in the results of the price comparison websites. This prevents transparent information on market prices. Minister, do you intend to abolish this dormant product regime, which undermines the transparency of the market and the supply of energy? If so, when will this regime be removed? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u208	Sleeping products are not a regime that should be removed, but a historical reality that remains in the supplier market, and more particularly in contracts. The CREG has indeed found the existence of these dormant products. What are they? According to CREG, in its report of 7 May 2015 on monitoring possible disruptive effects on the market, within the framework of the safety net mechanism introduced by Article 20a, §§ 1 to 5 of the Electricity Act and by Article 15/10a, §§ 1 to 5 of the Gas Act, I quote: "Suppliers sometimes adapt their product offerings and withdraw certain products from the market or adapt the product price formula without changing the name. These products become dormant products from this moment on. Sleeping products are no longer offered to new customers, but the contracts still under way are still active. Their tariff sheets are no longer available, nor do they appear in the results of the price comparison websites." There are three forms of dormant products. They are as follows. First, products with fixed energy components can in principle change prices each month. However, the product retains the same name from month to month, but its price changes. The price for a given month shall remain constant throughout the duration of the contract and shall be adjusted only in the event of an extension to the conditions applicable at that time. All product versions of previous months are the first form of dormant products and do not appear in the results of price simulators. Second, suitable products with variable energy components are indexed four times a year. The price shown on the tariff sheet is the result of the indexation formula at that time. Since there are four indices per year, by adjusting the indexation parameter, the price of the product will follow the evolution of the indexation formula during the duration of the product. Existing variable products for which the supplier has adapted the indexation formula, not a simple indexation as described above, but a change in a fixed term, coefficient or indexation parameter under the same product name, are dormant where the change applies only to new customers. The former version of the product is the second form of dormant products for which the result of the indexation formula no longer appears in the results of the price simulators. Products stopped are variable or fixed products that are completely withdrawn from the market. The name of the product and its price and/or indexation formula are the third form of dormant products. The current contracts, however, continue to exist but no longer appear in the results of the price simulators. It's always the same thing. This form of dormant products is the most important problem for the consumer because it cannot in any way estimate where its contract is still under way on the market. In order to give the consumer an opportunity to gain a longer-term idea of the evolution of both active and dormant products, the CREG publishes a monthly overview of electricity and natural gas prices by Region. It makes the following proposals. Firstly, that dormant products can no longer be extended, whereas these products may sometimes be more advantageous to customers. Secondly, suppliers must be obliged, at the end of the sleeping contract, to offer their customers an equivalent active product by also mentioning their lowest priced product, the latter point being already provided for in the new sectoral consumer protection agreement. Third, requiring suppliers to mention for each product the period of supply on the market so that each consumer can follow his version of the product and thus compare it with an active product on the market, including the updated version of his product. However, the latter solution is rather cumbersome at the administrative level. With all this, it should be noted that most suppliers today present on their sites the present and past tariff sheets of their different types of contracts. As a result, some suppliers are beginning to take the initiative to replace sleeper products with current products. I therefore believe that dormant products should not be systematically removed, but rather should be replaced by suppliers, at the latest by an equivalent active product, for example on the anniversary date of the contract on the occasion of the regularisation invoice. This could be the subject of a specific adaptation of the sectoral agreement on consumer protection, which is the responsibility of my colleague Kris Peeters, in consultation with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u209	Minister, my question was about the problem of comparators since the client who arrived on the site could no longer make the total comparison. In your answer, you mentioned that there was indeed a problem. You have received the opinion of CREG which proposes a number of things as well as recommendations. Finally, you have made a number of decisions. I take note of this and we will see on the ground how things will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u210	Minister Vandenberghe said at her hearing on the extension of Doel 1 and 2: "The risk of shortages also exists during the summer. This shortage causes prices to rise and makes it more necessary to build up strategic reserves." Indeed, as you know, many maintenance works are announced outside the winter period, and differences in production capacity due to the unavailability of power plants have an influence on electricity prices. Minister, do you intend to implement Elia's suggestion to set up a strategic reserve outside the winter period? If so, how will you proceed? If not, what will happen, and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u211	Mr de Lamotte, the question of setting up a reserve outside the winter period is not on the agenda, because the solution would be very costly. Imports are easier outside the winter period to contribute to Belgium's security of supply. A reflection on the necessary legal changes to the strategic reserve process is under way, as I have indicated to you, to allow easier access to all production forces that would otherwise close or no longer be able to provide us in case of need, i.e. in winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u212	Minister, however, the power plants are certainly maintained in the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u213	You will have the opportunity to ask Elia the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u214	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u215	I'm not worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u216	You're the minister, I'm asking you. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic204x.u217	We thank the Minister for her long and precise responses. Finally, the assembly regained its calm.
