ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u1	Mr Luykx apologized for the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first give an introduction to the diplomatic posts and then I will answer your questions and listen to your comments. The very tight fiscal path for 2015-2019, as outlined by the federal government, also implies a serious savings effort for the Foreign Affairs Office that cannot be achieved without closing a number of posts. Within the postal network, savings of around €9 million will have to be achieved in the coming years, staffing and operating costs combined. In 2011, a first country study was carried out in order to obtain an objective idea of the interest of third countries in Belgium with a view to optimising its diplomatic and consular network. In 2014, this study was updated on the basis of five criteria: economic, political, development and consular cooperation, level of difficulty and risk of operating for entrepreneurs in another country, for example for entrepreneurs. The results of this country study were used to identify the items to be closed in the following way, while maintaining the principle of the widest possible network worldwide, but with a view to a substantial contribution towards achieving the intended savings target of €9 million within the postal network. Countries of minor political and economic importance and a limited presence of Belgium can be abandoned. This also applies to countries with a certain political and economic importance but with few Belgians and who are not at risk. The current situation of European integration allows us to be no longer present in all the countries of the European Union without prejudice to our interests, as demonstrated by the closure of the Embassy in Malta in May 2013. Cross-border cooperation with our neighbouring countries is now established and institutionalized to such an extent that a daily presence of our FPS on the ground in the border region is no longer necessary and that the services provided to our compatriots can be entrusted to the respective embassies in Berlin and Paris. The modalities are further developed to ensure that these services are as smooth as possible. All areas of activity should contribute to the effort, embassies as well as consulates or consulates-general and the Development Cooperation Offices. On the basis of these objective criteria, I finally decided to close the following eighteen posts: the embassies of Tallinn, Riga, Vilnius, Bratislava, Ljubljana, Nicosia, Brazzaville, Tripoli and Kabul; the consulates-general of Cologne, Lille, Strasbourg, Geneva and Casablanca; the consulates of Toronto and Johannesburg; and the development cooperation offices of La Paz and Quito. Toronto has already closed at the end of 2014, while all other closures are scheduled this year – as long as possible before the summer – with the exception of Johannesburg and Geneva in 2016 and Casablanca in 2017. A diplomatic office was eventually retained in Pristina, but consular activities in that post would be discontinued, thereby achieving savings. Despite the closure of our posts in the Baltic States on the basis of the above criteria, however, close relations will be maintained with them through regular bilateral contacts between Benelux and the European Union, a military presence within NATO and a transfer of jurisdiction to the most appropriate neighbouring Belgian embassies in Stockholm, Helsinki and Warsaw. The Communities and the Regions were immediately informed of these planned closures and a coordination meeting took place on 9 February between my services and the competent departments of the Communities and the Regions to discuss the practical consequences of these closures on the network of the Länder abroad, including with regard to the status and housing of regional representatives abroad. This meeting has been very constructive. My services remain in close contact with the competent services in the Länder to ensure that the closure of the federal post, while maintaining a regional presence on the ground, goes smoothly everywhere. In reassigning the courts of the posts to be closed, we have taken into account the distance between them and their accessibility, the political and cultural compatibility or incompatibilities and the action of other countries. Headquarters support will be provided to ensure the re-entry of files by the appropriate new positions to ensure that they are prepared for their new tasks in the best possible way. The closure of a post inevitably means that local staff will be dismissed, with due respect for the applicable notice periods and fees, which in the long term will result in structural savings in the staff envelope. In particular, it concerns a total of ninety-seven redundancies of locally recruited staff in posts. In some cases, the new competent post will be strengthened by an agent and/or local staff, as far as possible by transfer from the post that is being closed, due to the increased workload after transfer of jurisdiction. The termination of the leases of the chanceries that are closed also means a permanent structural economy. The sale of the Chanceries on property is also part of the active management of the real estate assets of the FPS Foreign Affairs. Further closure of posts is not currently on the agenda, but further adjustments to the postal network remain possible on an analogous basis on the basis of the above mentioned criteria. In the light of the rationalization of the postal network, further efforts will be made to integrate Belgian chancery into the same city, for example Paris, New York, Rome and Vienna, and opportunities for co-locations in Benelux and with other European countries will be pursued further. Colocation and cooperation projects with the Netherlands are currently in Astana, Sarajevo, Tirana, Caracas, Buenos Aires and Kinshasa. Finally, I would like to answer the more specific questions about specific posts within our postal network. In Spain, the consulates of Barcelona, Alicante and Tenerife are kept in view of the large number of Belgian tourists who request consular assistance. However, this country is the subject of a pilot project under which all administration and budgetary activities are centralized in our embassy in Madrid. Following the closure of Toronto, there are still two professional posts in Canada, namely Ottawa and Montreal. Only Montreal exercises consular activities and has therefore taken over the consular jurisdiction of Toronto. A further streamlining is not planned in Canada at the moment. The closure of the development cooperation offices in Quito and La Paz is not directly linked to the update planned later this year of Belgium's list of partner countries in this field. After the closure of the offices, development programmes in Ecuador and Bolivia will be monitored from our embassy in Lima. The conclusion of the Consulate General in Casablanca will only take place in 2017, when the construction project is completed in Rabat and the embassy will thus have the space and resources to fully take over the tasks from Casablanca. The closure of the Brazzaville embassy does not prevent possible evacuations from Kinshasa via Brazzaville in the event of a crisis. The closure of the embassy will be offset by, among other things, the appointment of an honorary consul and agreements with other embassies on the spot. Following the conclusion of the Consulate General in Geneva, the aim is to maintain a consular antenna, limited to a point of contact, within the permanent representation in Geneva. The future of the Chancery building in Cologne is currently under study. I am also trying to see how the Regions and perhaps other partners – I am thinking in particular of the Chamber of Commerce – are planning to maintain a presence and rent this building at least until the end of the year and perhaps beyond. We will see what other options will be on the agenda. I conclude, Mr President, by repeating that it must be said that, in relation to the situation 10 or 20 years ago, Belgium is now more strongly represented abroad than in the past. I am not talking about the quality of people, they have always been exceptional, I am talking about the intensity of representation. Why? Because, since then, we have seen the development, beyond federal representation through embassies, consulates general and consulates, of a representation of Regions and Communities. In fact – we do – it is timely to present, at some point, the map of the overall representation of our country, which is no longer just the result of federal activity. Better collaboration and distribution of settlements on the ground would, perhaps, further strengthen this approach. Not only is Belgium more strongly represented through the many regional and Community locations, but also through what we helped to set up during the last Belgian Presidency at European level in 2010, namely the European External Action Service. There are now also more and more opportunities for our country to be represented through European representation. I would like to make this clear because, in terms of the cost of representing Belgium as a whole outside, we are spending more money today than a few decades ago, compared to the capacity that other levels of power now have to invest very heavily on the ground, not only in Europe, but also beyond the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u3	As far as the replies are concerned, I will follow the order of the questions submitted. In the meantime, Mr Maingain is also present in our sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u4	Mr President, Minister, my question is already a few weeks ago. You have just given us a list of which, to a large extent, we had already been able to get acquainted by means of the press. You said that five criteria were the basis of this selection. I regret the budgetary choices made by the government because I believe that external relations policy is crucial for a state. You have made budgetary choices and you are linearly imposing a number of reductions on all departments. As far as the criteria are concerned, you do not tell us how the rankings were made against these criteria. It would be interesting to know which diplomatic or consular posts were in balance according to a number of political or other issues. For example, I regret that the Baltic countries are no longer entitled to any diplomatic representation. It could be understood that diplomatic representation is grouped into one of the three countries, but to tell the Baltic countries today that they are no longer entitled to diplomatic representation seems to me to be very unsatisfactory for these countries, which have become very interesting partners in resolving a number of conflicts at the gates of Europe. Moreover, Belgium is the host country of the European institutions, which places an additional burden or duty on us in our relations with the other States of the European Union. I would therefore like to know more about how the rankings were made against the criteria and how they were weighted to know the arbitrations that were made. It is not up to me to tell you which positions should be abolished, but I would still like to understand the justification for each decision you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u5	Minister, thank you for this presentation. However, as Mr Maingain pointed out, we had already been informed in the press. I regret that Parliament was not informed earlier and correctly. I interviewed you unsuccessfully in December. It is a pity that this debate takes place only three months later. Parliament deserves better, especially since it is an unprecedented decision in terms of diplomatic representation. There was never such an important reorganization of our external delegations. It is essential that our diplomacy defend our interests, our security and our cooperation. That is why I believe that this debate should have taken place earlier and in a transparent manner. We had already heard of this 2011 study. In fact, I had insisted that cooperation should fall within the criteria, because that was not the case at the outset. I note that this has not changed in depth, since the countries with which we had cooperation, but in which we did not have an embassy, are still without one. That's too bad. Then we can ask ourselves a series of questions about some diplomatic posts that are closed. An agreement was reached with the Baltic States on the protection of airspace. It's not nothing on the political side. At the same time, we close our representations. I find this somewhat vexatious. Indeed, their diplomatic responsibility is subordinated to three different countries (Poland, Sweden and Finland) which are in a way regarded as the godmothers of the Baltic States. It's not very clever. Those countries of great political importance probably deserved our political representation. As far as Brazzaville is concerned, you say that this is not going to change anything about the possibility of evacuation. I do not know what an honorary consul can do in the event of a serious diplomatic crisis and an evacuation. I do not think it falls within the remit of an honorary consul to deal with such politically difficult arrangements. That seems very light to me. This will certainly pose problems in this historically important base for our military operations and cooperation in Central Africa. As far as postal services in Europe are concerned, I mean that you retain those who are of tourist importance. However, in Lille, there is a large expatriate community, with important economic stakes and cross-border regional development. You keep Alicante, why not? But why remove representations in places where economic interest is greater? In terms of decision-making and transparency, you announced to me that you would consult with the Regions and the Communities. In fact, you just informed them, after the decisions were made by your department. It's not a concertation. In a federal state, real consultation would have been important. You also announced a consultation with the Benelux partners. Did it happen? What criteria were discussed? Finally, you had entered 1 500 000 euros for the renovation of the performance in Cologne, which will be closed. I guess that's not going to happen. I mention it because it had escaped your services at first. This should not happen again. You mentioned 97 dismissals, but I would have wanted to know if there had also been an impact on the number of diplomats. Is it down? Is he going down?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your briefing. You have already answered a large number of questions, including those related to the criteria. I agree with Mr. Maingain's questions about the weighting and arbitration that has been carried out. I look forward to hearing from you about this. I would also like to know whether you have an assessment of the overall cost of the savings achieved in this context? Is an assessment of the impact of these closures planned? What is the deadline? Will some things be reorganized later? If this assessment were to take place, it would be interesting for Parliament to be kept informed. The closing of the post in Afghanistan is calling me. We know we still have a military presence in this country. Is it consistent to proceed with this closure while our soldiers are still there? Finally, in the government agreement, you mentioned the Swiss model for embassies. I would have wanted to know what you meant by that and take advantage of this debate to hear your explanations. Are your intentions to make the federated entities contribute? If so, how do you intend to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your statement. Most of my questions have been answered, but there are some left. The coalition agreement stated that objective criteria had to be taken into account. You have given us a picture of this. It also stated that the closure of posts would respect the interests of the federal government and the Länder. Hence my question as to whether you have asked for an opinion in advance from the Regions. You just said in your statement that the Communities and the Regions were informed and that there was a coordination meeting. However, has there been consultation in the process of weighing up the criteria and making the choices? I also have a few questions about the specific posts. The motivation to maintain the post in Congo-Brazaville has always been the argument of the evacuations in the past. You said just now that it will not be a problem to guarantee it. Is the security situation of the Belgians in the Democratic Republic of Congo assessed differently today? Another question concerns the consulate in Casablanca, a very important consulate for the Moroccan community in Belgium. You say Rabat will take over the duties. Will Rabat be able to take over the scope of Casablanca's tasks? I don't think you just said anything about Lille, or I just missed it. It happened pretty fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u9	Then I missed it. I have one final question about the agencies of development cooperation in Quito and La Paz. Does this also have implications for Ecuador and Bolivia as partners of Belgian Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u10	With this we have finished the list of questioners. Are there any fellow Members who have not tabled a question, but who may have a comment? No? I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the answer to the questions put by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u11	Mr President, with regard to the criteria and the study carried out, as a new legislature has been restarted, this may not have been communicated to all members of the committee, but the 2011 study has been communicated to the committee. It is she who bases the whole analysis. That's the whole study document. I would point out that it has been available to Parliament since I was asked to do so in the previous Parliament. This comprehensive study serves as the basis for the entire analysis. It is true that as far as the criteria are concerned, there has been a debate on the criteria for development cooperation. We added them. I gave an answer in my introduction to Quito and La Paz. There's no change. We will work from Lima for possible actions on the ground. We'll look into that in the next few weeks or months. My colleague from Development Cooperation will come forward with a review of our development cooperation policy. In the event of such a review, it may be possible to make some adjustments. However, there is no change in the terrain; after the closure of Quito and La Paz we will work from Lima. The study was communicated. At the time, it was also examined through exchanges with the Regions and the Communities. It was asked whether it was possible to start the preparation of the study with the Regions. I will ask that, since the study was started by my predecessor, Mr Vanackere. I only took a study in December 2011, as a result. I have been at this post since December 6, 2011, but the study was conducted throughout the year 2011 and started in 2011. I will therefore ask whether Mr Vanackere came into contact with the regions in the months preceding the preparatory study. As far as the update is concerned, I am quite open to giving you the elements of it. There's not much to change. There is, above all, this approach to the five criteria, but above all the concept of development cooperation which has been added and on which we will rework according to what my colleague from Cooperation will do in terms of the organisation of our cooperation action in the coming months. As regards the consultation of the Regions, the chairman of the department had a whole series of contacts during the discussion on the update. The services of the various regions – I mentioned them myself at the Interdepartmental Conference on Foreign Affairs – were consulted from this point of view. What we have done is to inform most of the closures that will occur. Some had already been decided in 2013, as for Malta. I had announced further closures in other debates, including the situation in Kabul or Tripoli, where we had the opportunity to close, like many other States, including the United States. I had also made the decision to close Damascus in its time as many other countries also closed their embassy there. These elements have been communicated. What I am communicating to you today are closures that are mostly scheduled by the summer and on which we are also working with the Regions to see how to take account of their location. Sometimes the execution takes a very long time. For Casablanca it is about 2017/2018, after the installation of our new capacity in Rabat. It will be perfectly possible to work from Rabat, with a new building and a new chancery. We decided to close the consulate in Casablanca, but only after the transition to Rabat. That won't be before 2015. It is for 2017 and 2018, as is the case for Johannesburg. The closure of the Consulate in Johannesburg is also for the second half of 2016, after a transfer and the provision of capacity in Pretoria. We also work with the Regions there. Is proper cooperation with the Regions possible? I'm going to the Swiss model. For my part, I am not an absolute supporter of one model or another. But we are already working, Mr Crusnière, with rentals that are paid for by the Regions or the Communities that occupy spaces within our buildings. I have announced collaborations with the Netherlands. I have recently signed the MoU in The Hague concerning the rental of 500 m2 by our Dutch colleagues in Kinshasa. I went there to see the state of the construction of our new chancery. I can tell you that the deadlines are being met. If this goes well, we should be able to open our chancery just before the presidential elections. Indeed, we still have two months to do so. We'll see! Every time, we make a rental. Sometimes we also occupy the buildings of our Dutch colleagues. We intend to continue to work in this way. Today, however, it is the only kind of modern way of working. If at some point partners feel they have better offers and want to move elsewhere, they can do so. But in the capitals where we are present, I advocate the consolidation of services, including the Regions. On the other hand, I often invite them to settle elsewhere in the country, in economically developed cities, with the aim of better ensuring our representation. As far as Cologne is concerned, discussions are currently under way. Indeed, I do not exclude – that is why the budget is still planned – from investing in this building, since the Regions will remain there until the end of the year. In addition, the question will arise at some point as to whether or not the building in question is being sold. But when you have a building for sale, it is not excluded that it is preferable to do so under more optimal conditions in terms of layout. In the meantime, it is important to see what the needs of those who occupy it are. Nevertheless, the matter remains open. It is possible that the work will not be carried out. But the budget will exist until the formal decision is taken to abandon the building, which has a practically closed floor, because it houses a theatre and premises that are not usable to date. As far as Lille is concerned, I gave the answer. There is no demand from the Regions to have a real location. That is why we will proceed to a sale of the building there. Of course, we can always discuss delays and difficulties, but it takes 37 minutes of Thalys journey to be in Brussels from Lille. It must therefore be made clear that consular assistance can be provided either in Paris or in Brussels. But imagine! Taking Thalys from Lille can take us very quickly to the French capital, or even to the Belgian capital. There is also a series of other important activities. I'm thinking about the community economically. I remain convinced that there must be a presence of the regions on the spot, which want to play a more economic role. But from the point of view of consular assistance itself, we are situated there in such a proximity area that it is possible to work differently, perhaps by strengthening the means, especially in Paris in the case of Lille but perhaps in other places in other cases. To review a series of other comments, we have actually made savings through job closures, but sometimes also due to the very high security costs. With regard to Kabul or Tripoli – and I am not talking about what we should have done in Damascus – one of the criteria of choice was at one point to tell us that we were no longer able to take such drastic security measures to ensure our presence. In Kabul, it must be admitted that logic consists of withdrawal, as for most States. This does not mean that we will no longer be represented at all. I hope, like many other Europeans, that the European Union will remain present with manageable security rules. This will allow us, if necessary, to have a defence on the spot. National Defence fully agrees with this approach. As far as the European States and the Baltic States are concerned, the choice of the government team at the time was to open posts everywhere, in all the candidate countries, which I am not criticising. But in my opinion, this is not the best decision, because we have needs elsewhere in the world. I had the opportunity to open a Consulate General in Chennai, India. We may need to open other positions elsewhere in emerging countries. This does not only apply to foreign affairs. In the light of developments, opening new posts systematically - I am thinking of Malta which has been closed, Cyprus, the Baltic countries and the Balkans gradually - is not feasible. As far as the Baltic countries are concerned, we have a military presence through our representation in NATO. We regularly have Benelux/EU contacts. I was still in Tallinn a short time ago during a contact with the Baltic countries / Benelux. Do not be entirely convinced that maintaining a post in one of the three Baltic States is necessarily better perceived, in any case in the other two, than working from neighbouring countries. This is a consideration that I have had the opportunity to discuss with several colleagues in the region. But I do not hide that we are going to see with Benelux in particular the possibilities of strengthening our presence and of seeing how to strengthen the process, even if we are already working with honorary consuls and Benelux partners. It is true that the choice was made to close a number of consulates general and embassies in Europe in the first place, before seeing how to work outside. As far as Brazzaville is concerned, the Honorary Consul will not have the essential responsibilities for evacuation, but it is with the French Embassy that we are working on the subject today. We must realize that this is where the important capacity lies. We are strengthening our representation in Kinshasa, we will have a new chancery on the Boulevard on 30 June as soon as the end of next year. We will have the opportunity to work live with our usual partners, including France. It is not indeed the Honorary Consul who will be on the front line, even if he can play a role in these occurrences. As far as the number of diplomats is concerned, the closures of posts lead to redeployments, but we will launch a diplomatic competition whose ambition is to recruit 40 new diplomats. This is the first time in a long time that we have organized such a competition. The ambition is therefore to go in this direction and, for the past few weeks, I have been responding favourably to a few requests to see diplomats extend their careers so that they can still exercise one or the other mission for the department. We can also use this solution from time to time, which is in line with the reforms we are putting in place in the area of retirement. At some point, there will be a stronger openness in this area. The overall gain is 9 million euros, programmed over the entire period because closures will only occur in 2016, in 2017 for Casablanca or in 2018. Mr Maingain referred to the role of Brussels as the seat of the European Union and NATO. We are not alone in carrying out this kind of restructuring. The Scandinavian countries have already reorganized their presence abroad by regrouping, as we do with Benelux. Other countries, such as the Netherlands, are organising job restructuring, job closures in a number of places around the world and especially in Brussels. I find this entirely legitimate. There are also reorganizations that are taking place: several states have already grouped their embassies together to have only one embassy with the bilateral of the European Union or NATO or to have two rather than three. I can understand why. Sometimes they choose to extend the jurisdiction, to go to a more Benelux jurisdiction or at least to belgo-luxemburgish jurisdiction. Of course, we must be careful to maintain a good relationship with our partners. I would add that I have already raised, within the government, the remark about the security of our positions abroad. Today we have a number of measures that are being taken in collaboration with National Defence. These are close protection services: Detachments of Security Officers (DAS). One might wonder whether, at some point, depending on the circumstances, in one country or another – we talked about it for Central Africa – there would be no need for mobile teams in this area. This would allow for a security presence on site for limited periods of time. There is not yet a decision on this matter, but it must be part of the analysis. Security concerns are growing in a number of places.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u12	Minister, thank you for these additional explanations. On the basis of the updated report, we will check what the more precise criteria were for certain choices, even if you have already given some elements of a response. More generally, what strikes me a lot in the direction of the current external relations policy is that it favours a common approach with the other two Benelux states. I admit I have more than just reservations about it. Benelux had its raison d'être at a time when the European Union did not yet have its strength or its integration, if I may say so. Everyone thought that, little by little, this institution would go towards a gradual extinction and, suddenly, it would be revived in a somewhat systematic, if not obsessive, way. I confess to being reserved because, on the one hand, there would be room for budgetary manoeuvre if certain contributions were dispensed with to the Beneluxian institutions and if they could be reallocated to other political choices of external relations; on the other hand, because I do not always feel that, in particular, the European view of the Netherlands on a number of major European issues is close to that of Belgium. In European history, there have been deep differences between the Netherlands and Belgium as to how European integration can be conceived. I find that, in the relationship with the other European states, give the impression that there is a kind of common front Belgium / The Netherlands may not always be the best signal of understanding. Indeed, whether we like it or not, the symbolism is there. When you share the premises of one chancellery in another state, you feel closer to that state politically than to another. So this is still a political choice with far-reaching consequences, and I am not sure that it does not deviate, somewhere, from the perception of the role of Belgium, particularly in terms of European integration, where I find that the Netherlands did not always have the same audacity or the same will as Belgium. And then, vis-à-vis third countries (outside the EU), why not give priority - I do not know if it is possible - to what could be done with the representation of the European Union present abroad? When a number of European states reflect on their representation in countries where there is a European representation, perhaps our presence in the premises, the buildings of the European representation would have a more interesting political significance. And I go even further: for countries in French-speaking Africa, in particular, when we see the development taken by the institutional francophonie, to find partnerships with countries that play a major role in its development, could also be a way – if we look for operating economies – to give an additional signal and weight to the institutional francophonie. I therefore do not mean that, if there is a representation in Andorra, a partnership with the Netherlands or Luxembourg would not have their raison d'être. I'm teasing you! But more fundamentally, I believe that we have to diversify our partnerships and our representation, and it seems to me that the systematic choice, which is very politically marked, and which nevertheless has some connotation in relation to our debates on domestic policy, partnership with the Netherlands, could be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u13	Minister, I will make three small comments. First of all, I fully agree with my colleague. We always start from the implicit idea that we would share diplomacy, interests, an identical international vision with the Netherlands. This has yet to be demonstrated. I have not seen this on many occasions. I therefore find, Mr President, that this debate would be interesting in your committee. Is there indeed a common foreign diplomacy in Benelux? Do we have common interests, are there common priorities? Do we actually have the same vision of things? I have been asking myself this question for a number of years about a series of issues, including security issues. I come to my second point. I understand you, and I can agree with a series of comments that you make, Minister. There is still one element that draws your attention and vigilance. We are moving away from a whole series of places where our security or directly that of our diplomats is probably threatened, but there too are issues that are extremely important for the security of Europe, for our security in general and for the future of our stability. I mean Damascus, of course, Tripoli, Kabul, and to a lesser extent Brazzaville. The role in the security of this place has been stressed, and I would add the Baltic countries. Care must be taken not to withdraw from these places, and not to become in the end completely devoid of the capacity for direct diplomatic intervention in all these places where security in the future is involved and all these issues. It seems to me important not to desert these places, and to verify that diplomatic action is taking place there that can support or possibly prevent or anticipate defence and security actions. This is something that I think is very important for the future. We tend, and I can understand, because of the security of people, to shut down these embassies. You stressed the cost of protecting our staff, but at the same time, they are extremely important places in terms of international security and stability. Diplomacy obviously has a role to play in this context. Thirdly, I am surprised by your comments on Cologne. In our previous debate, you told me that if Cologne were closed, the budget line would be deleted. You confirmed it to me. Today, however, you tell me the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u14	I'm not telling you the other way around. I'm telling you, we're still working with the Regions. If the Regions wish to rent the building, we will try, in a good relationship between the federal and the federated entities, to rent them in good conditions. If we continue to use this building – we will see whether this is the case or not – work may have to be done. On the other hand, if it is completely abandoned, it is possible that this work will not be done. For now, we continue to work with the Regions on the site. We are not going to abuse our tenants, especially since they are our regional friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u15	It is therefore no longer very clear. We'll see about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u16	Minister, my vision of Europe and the world does not stop at the borders of Benelux. However, I would like to make a comment on the doubt expressed by my two colleagues as to the usefulness of this Benelux. Nevertheless, I have the feeling, while being a very convinced European, that Europe has as its backbone the Member States and that there is a little lack of flesh on this spine. I have the impression that exchanges between European citizens do not take place in the way that one might wish. Therefore, having a cross-border entity, a place where this crossing of the internal borders of the European Union is true and daily, does not seem to me to be uninteresting. There are files that bring us closer together, including the whole of port policy, river transport policy, etc. This concerns the Netherlands and it concerns us. I am not obsessed with the subsistence of the Benelux, but in my view it is interesting to have cross-border areas throughout Europe that learn to cross borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u17	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago the press revealed the catastrophic working conditions in which foreign workers on Qatari yards operate to build infrastructure that will be used for the 2022 World Cup. This situation remains extremely worrying to date. My question dated 25 November, the facts are not recent. On 17 November, the International Trade Union Confederation published a report on the situation of domestic workers in the Gulf countries. The report is entitled How Operations Is Facilitated. This is a new element that comes in addition to numerous reports by other human rights NGOs that have pointed to the status of quasi-slavery in which migrant workers in Qatar are immersed, whether they work in homes or on construction sites. They work under indecent conditions and survive in unhealthy camps. They have neither the right to unionize nor the right to strike. However, the Belgian Parliament agreed to an investment agreement with Qatar no later than July 2012. This treaty was presented at the time by the Di Rupo government as a way of helping several Belgian companies to participate in the construction of stadiums and the infrastructure linked to this future World Cup by imposing so-called strong social clauses. Article 6 of the agreement I have just mentioned concerns the promotion of mutual protection of investment and Article 3 provides that "the contracting parties reaffirm their obligations as members of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and their commitments under the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights of Labour and its follow-up. (...) The Contracting Parties shall ensure that those universally recognized principles and rights of workers, as set out in paragraph 6 (...), are recognized and protected in their national legislation." Moreover, paragraph 4 of the 2012 Agreement provides that "at the request of one of the Contracting Parties, the other Party shall accept that the representatives of their Government meet for the purpose of consultation on any matter falling within the scope of this Article". In short, in the light of recent events and reports, Qatar visibly fails to comply with the essential provisions of international social law. Minister, in an answer to a question I asked you in March 2014 in the Senate, you stated that the agreement in question had not come into force. Could you please tell me if it's done now? If this agreement has entered into force, how do you intend to activate the provisions in question – Article 6 – and allow for consultation in order to verify the application of this article? Finally, whether the agreement is applicable or not, is it appropriate for Belgium to organise a princely trade mission, scheduled this month, in Qatar, when this future partner visibly fails to comply with basic social standards? Without strict respect for the social norms of this future agreement, Belgium would not only be complicit in an unacceptable social situation, but would also pose an economic risk to the many Belgian companies working there, their credit being tainted by what turns out to be a slavery literally organised by the Qatari State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u18	Mr President, Mr Hellings, on 31 March 2014, I exchanged the instruments of ratification relating to the bilateral agreement on the protection and promotion of investment between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) and Qatar, with Qatar's Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mohamed Bin Abdullah Al-Rumaihi, and the representative of Luxembourg. The Agreement entered into force on 30 April 2014. On the occasion of this meeting and having the social clauses that you mention in your question in mind, I conveyed to the Deputy Minister my concerns and those of the Belgian Parliament, as well as trade unions and associations, regarding the working conditions of migrants on the worksites in Qatar. I have informed the Deputy Minister of the Belgian side's wish to enter into a dialogue on how the work is organised on these projects. I have also stressed the great importance which the Belgian side attaches to this issue, particularly in the light of the many Belgian companies interested in concluding contracts in the framework of the World Cup of football and keen to avoid associating themselves with subcontractors whose practices would be problematic. I also stressed that it would be important to see how some of the reforms announced would translate into practice by suggesting that this be done in the context of on-site visits. In addition, I suggested that the International Labour Organization should be involved in the follow-up to these initiatives. Our diplomatic posts in Qatar and the region have been closely following the issue of respect for workers' rights for a long time. Moreover, whenever the opportunity arises in a context that proves appropriate, this issue is raised with our interlocutors both in bilateral and multilateral discussions. In this regard, I would like to refer in particular to Belgium's intervention during the last universal periodic review of Qatar on 7 May 2014 within the framework of the Human Rights Council. On that occasion, Belgium made two recommendations on the situation of migrant workers, which Qatar accepted. Belgium is also active on the issue within the European Union. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the declaration made by the Union at the 322nd meeting of the ILO Governing Council on 12 November 2014. In his statement on behalf of the Member States of the Union, the representative of the Union stressed that Qatar's political commitment to improve its legislation must be followed up within a clear and determined time frame of appropriate measures to ensure its effective implementation, including through the strengthening of labour inspections. He also referred to the importance of close cooperation with the ILO. The Qatari authorities are well aware of the concerns and the issue has become a priority for the government, which has been rather constructive and open to dialogue. Qatar had taken steps to improve working conditions: an increase in the number of labour inspectors; an on-line complaints mechanism; various new instructions for improving housing conditions; new measures in the workbooks for many projects related to the World Cup, Qatar Foundation and Ashghal Public Works Authority; the adoption of a new labour law, which would soon be in force, including payment of salaries at least once a month in a bank account; and the reform of the sponsorship system, which would allow for the change of employer and the improvement of the granting of exit permits. Discussions are also underway with other CCG countries for a standard contract for domestic workers. The entry into force of the new laws will be an important time to judge actions taken. Once these new measures have been promulgated, concrete implementation on the ground will have to be assessed with our European partners. I insist, in order to avoid amalgamation between all foreign companies active in Qatar, that my services are not aware of critical situations involving Belgian companies. I should like to remind you that this is important to take into account when referring to the provisions of the bilateral agreement on investment promotion and protection between the BLEU and Qatar or when referring to the next princely mission to Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. With regard to our bilateral contacts with Qatar, I can assure you that this issue is systematically addressed. The same will apply to my contacts on the occasion of the next Princely Mission. I can assure you that my services will continue to give all the necessary attention to the follow-up of this dossier, not only to the follow-up of the reforms that are in place, but even more to the monitoring of their implementation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u19	Minister, thank you for the briefing you have just made. I am particularly reassured by the attitude of your services and Belgian diplomacy to the various initiatives that have been taken at all levels, bilaterally and multilaterally. On the other hand, I am much less reassured by Qatar's attitude: nothing has been said about trade union rights. We must be extremely vigilant. I urge you to stay that way. I am pleased to learn that no Belgian company, to the knowledge of our services on the spot, is involved in this kind of disguised slavery. There has been a geopolitical element since my question was tabled in November: Qatar recalled its ambassador to Egypt on 19 February for consultation. That's diplomatically said. It was linked at the time to a statement by the Egyptian delegate at an Arab League meeting, which had reservations about Qatar and the financing of terrorism. This is an extremely strong and clumsy political act, which would at least justify the utmost caution with regard to the mission you are going to carry out with Princess Astrid in Qatar. Beyond the social and environmental dimensions that we have been working on for years in this Parliament, there is now also the geopolitical dimension. Qatar plays at least a troubled role in the crisis experienced by Daesh in Syria and Iraq, but also now in Libya. This would be to be extremely careful and to be able to put the points on the i by remaining extremely firm as regards the financing of Daesh or the ambiguous attitude as to what Egypt is doing, for example, on Daesh in Libya. That must be reminded of your Qatari counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u20	Minister, as acting non-Member State at the UN, following ratification of the Rome Statute, the Palestinian Authority applied for membership of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, after which UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon confirmed the accession of the Palestinian State to the International Criminal Court by 1 April 2015. Israel regards this action as a direct confrontation with Israel and has immediately blocked and threatened the monthly tax revenue, which is legally due to the Palestinian Authority worth 106 million, with heavier sanctions. The retention of tax revenues is an international violation of Israel's responsibilities under the Paris Protocol. Minister, the European Union, with Belgium in its lead, has always played a very active role in promoting justice and protecting human rights. What is Belgium's position on the accession of the Palestinian State to the International Criminal Court? Will Belgium encourage its partner Member States in the EU to support accession? Do you see the accession to the Rome Statute as a possible strengthening of the peace process? How serious do you think Israel is about containing Palestinian taxpayers' money, and thus the violation of the Paris Protocol? Have you spoken to Israel about this, possibly in a European context? How will you respond to any further reprisals of Israel? My next question is very closely linked to this. We call in the resolution adopted in the Federal Parliament on 5 February for the Palestinian State to be recognised at the most opportunity in order to achieve as many positive effects as possible in the context of the peace negotiations, preferably as a result of a concerted European action aimed at achieving a strong Palestinian government. However, Minister, I note a great diversity of views in Europe. How will you and your colleagues at the European Council of Foreign Ministers and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, approach the issue in the near future? Will you take concrete initiatives on behalf of Belgium or together with the EU? Are you aware of the initiatives taken by other European countries in relation to the situation in Israel and Palestine? Will you support certain initiatives? How did your conversation with President Abbas go? How do you see the continued support of the Palestinian Authority from Belgium? In summary, Minister, what strategy will you follow to comply with the parliamentary resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u21	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to my colleague Grovonius, who has also asked a question on the subject but is on a mission abroad. We chose to file the inquiry in order to finally be able to question you on the matter. On 5 February last, in your absence, while this was a key issue, the majority adopted in plenary session a motion for a resolution calling on the Government to recognize Palestine as a State and a subject of international law at a time that will be judged most appropriate on the basis of different elements. I am also surprised at my colleague's question, since she also supported this text with a number of elements: the positive impact of this recognition in order to revive or support an inclusive political process of negotiations between Israel and Palestine, the evolution of the dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and the efforts of the European Union to support the peace process with a view to a definitive and comprehensive solution respecting the legitimate aspirations of peace, security and prosperity for the Palestinian and Israeli peoples, and the exercise of a full-fledged Palestinian Government with authority over all Palestinian territories. Moreover, according to this text, the recognized boundaries of the territory of the State of Palestine will be the 1967 borders, only amended by agreement of the two parties. Following this adoption, can you tell us, Minister, how the government now intends to implement this resolution and on what timetable and thus effectively and formally recognize the State of Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have always said to the two parties during the political dialogue is that they must return to the negotiating table. It is only through the resumption of the peace process that the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian State will be possible, a Palestinian State living in peace alongside the State of Israel, whose security should be assured. So we have taken note of the latest developments in Palestine's accession to the International Criminal Court, but that does not change either the substance of the matter or our basic position, namely that a lasting peace can only be achieved through a political negotiation process. All the steps that are being taken must therefore contribute to that process. We call on both sides not to take any further steps to prevent a rapid return to the negotiating table. In this context, we believe, as Federica Mogherini has also said, that a well-functioning Palestinian Authority is essential for a solution and that Israel's decision not to pay the taxes it collects in the Palestinian territories to the Palestinian authorities is contrary to the Paris Protocol. As for your question, Mrs Claerhout, I am not aware of any specific steps that other countries would have taken to discourage the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court or to prevent an investigation. At least that is not our policy. Accession to the International Criminal Court was not discussed during the negotiations on the Association Treaty with Israel. The Association Treaty was concluded in 2000, before the entry into force of the Rome Statute on 1 July 2002 and before the decision of the Council of the European Union on the International Criminal Court on 16 June 2003. I think it is appropriate for Members to debate the resolution adopted by Parliament, since it was a resolution. It is not essential for the government to be present, Mr Crusnière. You have set out the three criteria contained in the resolution that was voted on, to determine when Palestine's recognition will be most timely. It is difficult to say that the development of the current situation is likely to draw closer to these three elements. To stick only to the first of them, we do not consider that, in the present state of affairs, the recognition of Palestine would have a positive impact in reviving or supporting an inclusive political process of negotiation between Israelis and Palestinians. This does not mean that nothing is being done to bring both parties to the negotiating table. You will no doubt have read the statement of the quartet meeting in Munich on 8 February, which shows that the need to relaunch the peace talks is a priority shared by all its members. A special representative of the European Union for the peace process should also be appointed. I had asked for it since several meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council, in order to promote this return to negotiations. Initiatives are therefore being taken to ensure that the Middle East peace process can make further progress as soon as possible. However, we do not consider that the recognition of Palestine as a State is, at this stage, timely and effective in reviving this process. You know that in the coming days another process will begin, that of elections in Israel. It is not entirely correct to say that there is a strong diversity of views on the peace process in the European Union. It is a fact that some of the EU countries have recognised Palestine as a state and some of it has not. However, all EU countries agree on the fundamental principles that the EU's actions must guide in the peace process. The conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on the common position are very clear. We all have the same ultimate goal: the two-state solution, that is, the creation of an independent, sovereign, democratic and viable Palestinian State, which it exists side by side and in peace and security with Israel. This approach guides our policy in the peace process. Belgium is actively involved in the concrete implementation of this policy. Recently, only one new recognition of Palestine has been added, namely by Sweden. The remaining decisions to recognise Palestine as a state date back many years. So we remain on the same page, together with the other European countries, and we will try to take new initiatives to restart the peace process.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u23	Minister, I am of course pleased to hear that there is more consensus at European level on the approach and position towards a two-state solution than sometimes seems to be. Minister, we visited Palestine three weeks ago with some Members of Parliament. There is a feeling that the possibility of a two-state solution is getting smaller and smaller. We have also noticed that the Palestinians are expecting initiatives from Europe there. That is why I would certainly like to continue to encourage you to play an important role in this. In Belgium we have a lot of experience with very complex and complex political situations, and you yourself have built up a lot of experience and expertise. I think that Belgium can really play a much greater role in the peace process than it is at present. I think several other committee members feel the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u24	Minister, I thank you for your answer, which – as you may know – does not appease my concerns about the timing of the effective implementation of this resolution. To hear you, one can indeed wonder when one will reach the most opportune time to implement this resolution. That is why I have tabled a motion to seek the immediate recognition of the Palestinian State, in accordance with the discussion we had in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u25	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, responsible for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the federal government 1. to proceed, in effect and immediately, to the recognition of the Palestinian State within the 1967 borders and in accordance with UN General Assembly Resolution 43/177; 2. In this context, consultations should be held with the European partners in order to - work towards the mutual recognition of the two States as an indispensable step towards a just and lasting solution; - to plead with the European Union for the establishment, within the framework of its Euro-Mediterranean neighbourhood policy, of an area for constructive dialogue on peace in the Middle East. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Stéphane Crusnière and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs with responsibility for Beliris and the Federal Cultural Institutions, calls on the federal government 1. to recognize the Palestinian State effectively and immediately within the 1967 limits, in accordance with United Nations General Assembly Resolution 43/177; 2. to consult with the European partners in this regard, in order to: - to promote the mutual recognition of the two States, as an essential step in achieving a just and lasting solution; - to urge the European Union, within the framework of its Euro-Mediterranean neighbourhood policy, to provide a forum for a constructive dialogue on peace in the Middle East. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Richard Miller and Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Richard Miller and Mr Tim Vandenput. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u26	Mr Minister, my question is to a large extent about the same subject that has just been discussed, namely the International Criminal Court. My question was tabled on 10 December, even before the Palestinian Authority's application to join the Criminal Court, which makes the matter even more difficult. I would therefore like to delete my introduction and confine myself to the question. Have you already raised the issue of accession to the Rome Statute or will you bring it up in the context of your political dialogue with Israel or Palestine, because, as Mr Claerhout has just said, Israel has stopped transferring taxpayers' money, the Palestinian Authority's money for the sake of clarity? We have heard on the ground that this is causing problems, not only in terms of administration, hospitals and schools, but also in terms of the security dialogue between the Palestinian Authority and Israel. This is a security dialogue which has so far been fairly hassle-free. We have heard this from both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides. Of course, such a step because of Israel complicates the matter. It was also noted that the Israeli authorities blamed the Palestinians for taking a unilateral step in applying for membership of the International Criminal Court. I think we can all imagine the despair of the Palestinian Authority if the illegal settlement policy continues and thus complicates any peace process. I don't think it's a unilateral move. On the contrary, I think it is an involvement in the multilateral organisation which is the International Criminal Court. Moreover, since the Criminal Court can investigate war crimes, there has been an opportunity at the time of the Gaza conflict, war crimes that may have happened on both sides for the sake of clarity. Perhaps you could open up this question a little, since the current situation has changed compared to 10 December last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u27	Mr Minister, my question dates from 12 December and I think it stands. I begin with the observation that the European Member States took over a decision by the Council of the European Union on the International Criminal Court, namely that the Member States consider that as many members as possible should become members of the International Criminal Court as soon as possible. According to media reports, some European Member States would have discouraged the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to launch investigations into the situation in Gaza, and Palestinian policy makers would also have been advised not to ratify the Rome Statute. What position has Belgium taken on Palestine's accession to the International Criminal Court since the adoption of the above-mentioned decision by the Council of the European Union delivered to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, the PLO or the Palestinian Authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u28	Unfortunately, I have the same answer as for Mrs Claerhout, but I would like to go into a few more details. Mr De Vriendt, it is clear. I have already said that we are following the same reasoning as Federica Mogherini regarding Israel's decision not to pay out taxes it collects in the Palestinian territories to the Palestinian Authority. This runs counter to the Paris Protocol, but it also runs counter to a possible positive development in the peace process. I repeat that we are against all unilateral actions in that story. I have heard your reasoning about a unilateral decision that is not unilateral when it is possible to go to a multilateral organisation. I've tried to follow, but it's a very dubious reasoning. There is a contradiction between a multilateral organisation and a unilateral decision. As far as I am concerned, however, that does not change the decision itself. As far as accession to the International Criminal Court is concerned, Mr Van der Maelen, we have always advocated, like many others, the accession of all possible states to the Rome Statute. That was a question, as it was asked by many other European countries, to all states. I repeat that we are still in favour of the accession of as many states as possible. I have given an answer on the current situation regarding the recognition of Palestine by the Belgian Government. I have not been given any information on a possible attempt by a European country to push a partner such as Palestine in one direction. Belgium has not taken a specific initiative in this respect. With regard to the Treaty of Association with Israel, I referred to the Treaty itself and to the Rome Statute, which came later. We maintain the same reasoning. For us, it is very important for a very large number of states to be able to apply the Rome Statute, but we have not taken specific initiatives for Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u29	You say that you are in favour of as many states as possible becoming an effective member of the International Criminal Court. I hope that in your political dialogue with Israel you have urged them to join the International Criminal Court. You know that Israel signed it a while ago, but Parliament has not yet wanted to ratify it. Israel is therefore not yet a member of the International Criminal Court. It seems to me that you do not welcome that step because of the Palestinian Authority. You say it has no positive impact on the peace process. What are they supposed to do? They are faced with a partner in negotiations that are not negotiations and continues to set up illegal settlements. They are looking for a way out, a lever, an accession to a multilateral organisation. We all encourage the multilateral organisation of the world in accordance with international law as a large global framework. That step must not be rejected and disqualified, taking into account the difficult context in which the Palestinian Authority finds itself. Keeping their own taxpayers' money is counterproductive in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u30	Mr De Vriendt, you said just now that you cannot follow Mr De Vriendt's reasoning. I'm having trouble not following them. Any accession to the International Criminal Court is an individual decision of a state. That's not unilateral. If one takes the step to submit his actions to the International Criminal Court, that is progress. I'm really having trouble following the position you're defending. The PLO, the supporting force of the Palestinian authorities, was on the terrorist list 25 years ago. After all that has happened, with intifada............................................................................................................................................................................................ What is the response of the United States? Beware if you do so, because then we will stop supporting the Palestinian authorities. What is Israel's reaction? If you do so, we will withhold tax revenue. That's the world upside down, isn't it? If an organisation which was not known as a terrorist organisation more than 25 years ago wants to register in the international legal order, then the person who takes the step will be sanctioned, and that will be done by two countries that refuse to engage in the international legal order themselves. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am going to be short in my question because some of the issues have already been raised in yesterday's debate on trade treaties. But a question didn't get an answer, so I'm starting. We have learned that the European Union is negotiating, in the utmost secrecy, an agreement on trade in services or Trade in Services Agreement (TiSA), thanks to a leak from WikiLeaks. Since then – the question was asked in December – much more is known. WikiLeaks revealed the existence of an internal working document dating back to April 2014. The negotiation of a new free trade treaty would regularly bring together representatives of the United States, the European Union and 22 other so-called developed countries on the premises of the Australian Embassy in Geneva. These fifty countries are called "very good friends of the Services" (I quote) and they negotiate outside the usual WTO chambers, even though all the parties involved in this negotiation – and it is original – are members of the WTO. According to its supporters, the TiSA aims to reduce, from the perspective of maximum free trade, "barriers preventing mutual investment" and "stimulate business growth". These barriers include, for example, national quotas, reserved public procurement, state monopolies and health, social and environmental standards. In applying these principles, it is a kind of global TTIP, with an equally opaque or even more opaque mode of operation. My first question was about the mandate, but as it was unveiled yesterday in the first place by your collaborator here, I don't need to ask you any more. On the other hand, what would be interesting to know is whether you are ever going to demand transparency of the final mandate, as the Commission obtained in Council, as you did for the TTIP. Then, as far as the negative list is concerned, can you confirm to me that you are rather in favour of a positive list of subjects on which we can negotiate in contrast to what has leaked in recent months, namely a negative list (= we can discuss everything, except some topics)? So, in the mandate, was it a positive or negative list? And, if it was a negative mandate, could you clarify the content of that list? The last question, which was not addressed at all yesterday: unlike TTIP, TiSA was not preceded by an impact assessment by the Commission or the Belgian Government. We know that the TTIP has a lot of disadvantages, but we can at least recognise that the Commission has made an impact assessment. For TiSA, this is not the case. Can you clarify whether your government is considering asking, as it did for the TTIP and as you said a few months ago in committee, for an ex ante impact assessment at the SPF Economy, knowing that the Office of the Plan had already refused to answer for the TTIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to raise a number of points yesterday in connection with the exchange of views on all these negotiations. I confirm that the mandate of the European Commission has been declassified. I hope that we will continue in this direction and that in the future we can continue to work in the same way and move towards greater transparency. The competent Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, shares this view. Now we still have to convince the partners to move forward in this direction. Prior to the formal launch of the negotiations, the countries participating in the TiSA agreed on the parameters on which the agreement could be based. These parameters were discussed with the Council. You will have found that this is discussed in the negotiating mandate. One of the parameters is that the parties to the agreement will make a horizontal commitment to national treatment. This means that any person or undertaking in a Member State will receive treatment no less favourable to that granted to nationals once it has been authorised to enter the national market. Parties may make horizontal or sectoral exceptions to this treatment in the Annexes. These exceptions constitute one of the three guarantees provided for in all EU trade agreements in the field of public services. These guarantees relate to the regulation, monopolies and national treatment mentioned above. They allow EU member countries to remain fully free to manage public services as they see fit. With regard to national treatment and market access commitments for publicly funded services such as health care, social assistance, education and water supply, national authorities are not obliged to treat persons and businesses outside the European Union in the same way or to open their markets in these sectors. On the contrary, the countries of the European Union may favour European companies in relation to foreign companies, prevent them from providing or investing in these services or defer any decision to allow foreign companies to provide or invest in a specific service. These three guarantees still apply regardless of the approach taken to reflect the EU's commitments to services in these trade agreements (positive lists or negative lists). As I mentioned yesterday, I plead that we should be able to work with positive lists, but for the moment I do not have much echoes around the European table. In other words, I do not have much support in this area. But – I repeat – one can achieve the same result through one step or the other. For the moment, we are working regularly with negative lists simply because there is no consensus to go in another direction. The following areas are excluded from any commitment: publicly funded health and social services; public education; water collection, treatment, distribution and management services; and audiovisual services. In addition, services provided exclusively by governments, such as justice, police or defence, are by definition excluded from the scope of the Agreement in accordance with Article 1.3 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). The schedule for launching the negotiations agreed by all the countries participating in this initiative did not allow the Commission to carry out an upstream impact assessment. Nevertheless, it mandated an external company to conduct an assessment of the impact of this agreement on sustainable development, the "Sustainability Impact Analysis". This evaluation is under way. The first results were published on the Commission's website. An impact assessment for Belgium can be requested. We have already done so with the FPS Economy, which now has to decide how to implement this analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u33	Thank you for your answer. I understand that negotiations started in Geneva when the impact assessment did not exist, either in the head of the Commission or in Belgium. If there are economic or social benefits of such a treaty, it would be interesting to be able to measure them before taking the decision to put the finger in the middle of such an important negotiation. It seems to me that's what this is all about. I understand that the studies are going to be carried out now and that it is an external society, as far as the Commission's study is concerned, which will deal with them. I assume he's a consultant. I find this disturbing as far as methods are concerned. We'll have to keep an eye on this. Let us never forget that, within the framework of the TTIP, the Commission's preliminary study is now the subject of strong challenges, as it seemed to be oriented. Attention will have to be paid to this study commissioned by an external consultant by the Commission. I encourage you, if you do not be able to stop these negotiations on which we have the worst fears, to continue to fight, even if you cry alone in the desert, for these positive lists. We don't know what the economy of the future will be made of in ten years' time. Perhaps it will be collaborative and social and will not be excluded from this future free trade treaty. We must be able to say that we are ready to involve a series of sectors where Europe has advantages, rather than involving all but a few sectors. We'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u34	Minister, my questions are numerous. I'll summarize them. I would like to ask you about the extent of the inclusiveness of the policy of the new Iraqi Government, for example when it comes to implementing the agreement on the distribution of oil revenues and the payout of salaries for Kurdish officials. I would then like to look at the state of play in the Iraqi Government's reforms to remove or reduce the breeding ground for radical Sunnis. I also have a question about the consequences of the air strikes. How many of Daesh's fighters died in those air strikes? Do you have any idea? Are there any figures on this? What is your department's assessment of the coalition's current strategy and approach? How does Daesh's access to its sources of income evolve, in particular a number of oil sources and others? Another question concerns our country's operation to train Iraqi troops. I asked the Minister of Defence about this yesterday. It was a question of the extent to which we asked for guarantees, before we started these training operations, that the soldiers we were training really form a mirror of Iraqi society. The point is that we would not only train Shiite soldiers, but also a Sunni representation. What diplomatic means do you use to monitor the situation? I ask you this question because I have heard that the Netherlands has strengthened its diplomatic network on the ground in the region. Have you taken the same measure or are you planning to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u35	Mr President, Minister, among the many terrifying stories that come to us about the occupation of Iraq and Syria by the Islamic State, sexual violence seems to have become systematic and thus clearly used as a weapon of war. In particular, the Islamic State tries to attract new recruits with promises of money and women, and sells them in the markets of Mosul and Raqqa, Syria, a bit like mouth products. It seems that such mass sexual violence, both unacceptable and destructive to society as a whole, is unfortunately only one of many elements on the endless list of abuses of this organization. However, it is particularly difficult to account for them, as the victims of such attacks tend to remain silent as they face considerable taboos and social pressures. Minister, the sexual violence committed by the Islamic State destroys the stability of a society, as do the murders and ethnic cleansing. Addressing them from the perspective of the humanitarian impact of a conflict is restrictive. This is a real tactic of war, to be taken into account as such in the organized fight against the Islamic State. How does the international community take this weapon of war into account in its overall fight against the so-called Islamic State? What initiatives could this be or have already been taken by the various bodies of the international coalition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u36	Mr President, I shall sum up in one of my two questions, which are already dated. Mr Minister, at the Council of Ministers on 27 February, the Belgian government agreed to send 35 soldiers (20 instructors and 15 men for security support) to train Iraqi soldiers, in cooperation with the Netherlands and Norway, in various tasks: shooting, medical care, commando techniques. There is also a question of training in training. If the Belgian military contribution to the fight against ISIL terrorists in Iraq adopts a new form that falls outside the scope of the resolution adopted by the House, the diplomatic, political and humanitarian aspects of our contribution are much more discreet when they were explicitly requested by the House. Minister, are these new military missions integrated within a broader international community framework in contributing to a lasting stabilization of the Iraqi and regional situation? What is the added value of Belgium in this context? From the beginning of the operation, it was agreed that the international coalition against ISIL should intervene in accordance with the 3D strategy. So far, the intervention of the international coalition has been essentially military. What initiatives and what budget will be taken at the diplomatic level by our country or even by the European Union? Have you ever discussed with your colleagues the exit strategy for the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u37	Minister, the context of the question has already changed a bit. The question was about the captivating moment when a Jordan pilot in the hands of IS died a cruel death. There followed an act of revenge, which is emotionally understandable, but which may not be the right way to act in a state of law. Minister, we operate from Jordan with our F16 devices. Have these events affected the Belgian operation in any way? Has the changed situation had any effects on the ground? Yesterday, I spoke with the serving ambassador of Iraq, following the meeting at the IPU. There are operations on the Iraqi side, which are rather optimistic by those involved. In the spirit of the code of ethics which we still use, will you urge Jordan to exercise restraint in the exercise of the death penalty in similar cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u38	Mr De Vriendt specifically asks for his apologies. He had to ask a question on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u39	The interim agreement of 13 November 2014 between Baghdad and Erbil temporarily puts an end to tensions between the central government of Iraq and the Kurdish regional authorities. The Kurdish region can export 150 000 barrels a day on its own account, which is currently half of Kurdish production. In return, Baghdad pays civil servants' late wages for the months of October and November. Apparently, the agreement has been implemented. Outstanding payments are still outstanding. A final and comprehensive agreement is still under negotiation. It should be noted that the 2015 budget is still under discussion in Parliament in Baghdad and that falling oil prices have an impact on the debate. Observers have the impression that the fight against IS in Baghdad is a priority. According to UN Special Envoy Mladenov, the political and religious leaders have now beaten up to save the country. This process has led to the formation of a national unitary government, which seeks an inclusive agenda. The Special Envoy welcomes Baghdad's efforts to improve cooperation with local tribes. It is said that Prime Minister Abadi is made of the right material. He sees the problems and wants to do a genuine job of inclusiveness. He's growing increasingly in his job. His style has clearly stirred up the political situation in Baghdad. Soon after the formation of his government, he stopped the artillery bombing of Fallujah, which did not distinguish between civilians and fighters. On 13 February 2015, the Iraqi Government reached agreement on the establishment of a national guard, which will increase Sunnis' involvement in security and the re-entry of ex-Bathists into public services. These proposals will now be submitted by the Iraqi Government to the Iraqi Parliament. The Iraqi Government is in any case responding to important questions from the Sunnis. However, it is still early to measure the results of the policy of reconciliation, but observers say that the right path has been taken. The government's first priority is to tackle security issues and ensure the unity of the country. However, the Iraqi Government clearly states that socio-economic developments must also be addressed. Indeed, the Iraqi Government states that the disadvantage of Sunnis must be reversed, including in order to promote security and deprive ISIS of its support. Development and security are therefore closely interlinked. ISIS finances itself in different ways: kidnappings against ransom, extortion, all kinds of taxes and the sale of oil from Syrian and Iraqi oil fields. These fields produced 300 000 barrels a day before the war. A UN report early November estimated production under ISIS at 47 000 barrels per day. Half of the crude oil is sold and sent to neighbouring countries. It is estimated that the proceeds are between 500 000 and 1.5 million dollars per day, but there are many missing elements in the calculation of yields. ISIS also receives financial contributions from private donors from abroad. In autumn 2014, installations were destroyed. It is claimed that the revenues of ISIS have now been reduced. However, it is difficult to assess precisely the impact of the bombing, as the destruction of fixed refineries can be compensated by the commissioning of mobile refineries. UN Security Council Resolutions 2170 and 2178 are important tools in the fight against the financing of ISIS. I always insist on the full implementation of those resolutions. On 9 November 2014, Bahrain organised a conference that resulted in the so-called Manama Declaration, which specifically aims to address the funding of ISIS. Our experts participate in such specific conferences on the funding of ISIS. They attended the conference in Bahrain and participated in the International Working Group on Sanctions Targeting ISIL, al-Nusrah Front and the Assad Regime, Washington. At the meeting of the anti-ISIS coalition in Brussels on 3 December 2014 and in London on 22 January 2015, combating funding was a priority item on the agenda. Moreover, a working group on financing will be set up in the coalition. During these and other international contacts, I call for systematic action on the basis of the guidelines set out and against the funding of ISIS. With regard to our networks, while saving on many other posts, for example on the number of deployed and locally recruited staff, the occupation of our Amman embassy has remained the same, with one ambassador, one diplomatic officer and one consul. The embassy was given the agreement to replace a locally recruited staff member, but the budgetary constraints prevent us from deploying additional diplomatic agents. However, we are committed to the additional appointment of a consul in Baghdad. For some time now, I have had a special envoy for the region and especially for Syria. As you recalled, Mr Crusnière, Belgium has joined the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq. The Chamber had indeed invited the government then in day-to-day affairs to contribute actively to this collective effort by making available the Belgian F-16s for combat missions in Iraq. The new government continued this commitment by extending it until 31 December 2014 and until 30 June 2014, following a decision by the Council of Ministers on 18 December. On the same day, the government agreed, on the proposal of the Minister of Defence, to also participate in the Building Partner Capacity programme, developed by the coalition, which aims to give Iraqi military forces the ability to guarantee their own long-term territorial sovereignty. Following the decision of the government on 27 February, thirty-five Belgian soldiers went to Iraq to participate in the collective effort to train Iraqi forces. This mission, Train & Advise, does not involve any involvement in combat operations. The external protection of our contingent is provided on the spot by the American forces. This commitment is fully in line with the overall approach desired by Belgium and implemented within the framework of the coalition of approximately sixty countries under the leadership of the United States. This strategy aims not only to weaken and hopefully eventually destroy ISIL, but also to stabilize Iraq. I have already had a long opportunity to speak in this same forum. Our action is multifaceted, combining humanitarian, political and military aspects. She's trying to fight Daesh in the area. The danger this organisation poses to our own security is just as important, with the involvement of foreign armed fighters in terrorist attacks such as in Brussels, Paris and Copenhagen. We must be aware that nothing has yet been achieved and that our efforts will bear fruit in the long term. With our coalition partners, I have always stressed the need for a coherent political approach. I am convinced that we must constantly check that our efforts on one or the other of our lines of action are in line with the objectives. The small group meeting of the coalition countries, in which I participated on 22 January in London, was part of the more operational follow-up to the plenary meeting in Brussels on 3 December. Only the most active countries of the coalition were invited to attend. The topics addressed fully reflect the multidimensional nature of the operations to be conducted against Daesh. We have, of course, talked about the airstrikes campaign, which has helped to limit the military capabilities of this organization. However, more time has been devoted to global political discussions and other dimensions, namely the fight against the financing of Daesh – I have just responded to Mr. De Vriendt – the phenomenon of foreign fighters, humanitarian actions and the ideological delegitimization of Daesh – the counter-narrative. The modalities for the implementation of all these actions were discussed as well as the need to strengthen cooperation between the Western countries and the States of the Middle East. In addition, the meeting provided an opportunity for my counterparts and myself to focus on resolving the fundamental problems in Iraq, including through greater political inclusiveness and socio-economic development for the benefit of all parts of the country. A very frank dialogue took place on these and other equally important issues, such as the regional situation or the impact of the crisis on the countries of the region. I am pleased that this meeting of the small group or core group was able to synchronize our views and guide the coalition's actions for the future. Five thematic working groups were set up: one on military actions, another on counter-financing, a third on foreign terror fighters, a fourth on counter-message and a fifth on stabilization. These various working groups are being set up on a voluntary basis. They'll meet soon. The coordination of humanitarian efforts is the responsibility of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. Belgium continues to advocate for respect for the impartiality necessary to ensure the effectiveness of humanitarian aid and the safety of staff. The small group will also meet regularly to coordinate the activities of the working groups and the general political objectives. All the results of this work will be presented to the coalition meeting in plenary. In conclusion, I repeat in response to Mr Crusnière's questions on this point, the problem of the fight against Daesh and the resolution of the crisis in Iraq and Syria is infinitely complex. As a result, our multi-faceted actions will have to focus on the long term, without it being possible at this stage to set a precise timetable and a deadline. Our objective, however, is clear: we must stop and eliminate Daesh and at the same time, if possible, strengthen regional stability with the establishment in Iraq of a society in which all religious and cultural components can participate in the governance of the country and in which socio-economic development will benefit all. The efforts of the coalition and Belgium will be long-term and, as I have already pointed out, we have no guarantee of success, but I think you will agree with me that doing nothing in the circumstances was not an option. To answer Mr Blanchart's questions, I obviously share his concerns about the atrocities committed by ISIL or Daesh in Iraq and Syria. Belgium supported the organisation of a special session of the United Nations Human Rights Council. At this session, which took place on 1 September 2014, Belgium expressed its dismay at the atrocities committed by Daesh and its concern about the precarious situation of ethnic and religious minorities, as well as that of other vulnerable groups such as women and children who are the target of violence. The resolution adopted at the end of the session condemned violence against women and children in the strongest terms. In the same resolution, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is also requested to dispatch an urgent mission to Iraq to investigate the allegations of human rights violations committed by ISIL. The universal periodic review of Iraq took place on 3 November 2014. During this review, Belgium reiterated its condemnation of the deliberate attacks against civilians and its deep concern for the deterioration of the human rights situation since the attacks by the terrorist group Daesh. Given the massive human rights violations committed by the terrorist group Islamic State and its associated militias and in order to prevent impunity for war crimes or crimes against humanity committed on Iraqi territory, both now and in the future, Belgium recommended that the Iraqi Government ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Court. Finally, I come to the answers to Mr De Roover's questions. No official question has been asked to Belgium to step up Belgian operations against ISIS following the death of the Tunisian pilot, a barbaric act which I strongly condemn. According to our information, the United Arab Emirates are once again participating in the operations. There has indeed been a temporary interruption, apparently on the basis of a debate between the United Arab Emirates and the United States, on rescue operations for possibly crashed pilots, search and rescue operations. This disagreement would have been resolved by now. It goes without saying that it remains important for the coalition to be broadly opposed to IS, including in the Arab world. However, each member of the coalition makes its decisions in a sovereign way. Jordan's long-term plans are difficult to estimate. As Foreign Minister, it is difficult for me to speak on behalf of another country. At the moment, the coalition's strategy is based on air strikes and strengthening Iraqi security forces. In this context, I am thinking of the operation of Defence in Iraq for the training of Iraqi soldiers. With regard to the execution of the convicted terrorist by Jordan, I agree with the statement by the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Policy, Federica Mogherini, that we must do everything possible to stop these terrorists, but that our response must not go against our common values and respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. Like the rest of the European Union, Belgium is convinced that the death penalty must be abolished and that it has no deterrent effect on future terrorists. I have just underlined our position on this in a press release. In the billateral contacts I will have with Jordan, I will not fail to convey these elements. In addition, Belgium understands the difficult conditions in which Jordan finds itself, with the reception of hundreds of thousands of refugees, the direct threat to the terror of IS and the conflict in Syria and Iraq. As far as the death penalty is concerned, I was in contact with all the ambassadors from the Gulf this afternoon at the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). I have said, among other things, that we are calling for the abolition of the death penalty. I have also said that we understand the difficult situation of certain countries, such as Jordan. However, we are continuing our plea for the abolition of the death penalty in the widest possible number of countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u40	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u41	Minister, you are talking about the long term, but we are all aware that this will not be resolved quickly. I am concerned that in terms of defence, the funds available for on-site military action are planned until June. So when we talk about the long term, we can ask ourselves what solutions will be taken in the coming months. We also know that the solution will not only come from the military side and that you will indeed have an important role to play in diplomacy, as well as your colleague from Development Cooperation. We will be paying attention to the actions to be taken in the coming months and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u43	Mr President, Minister, we wanted to turn our sights to South Sudan, where there is another terrible civil war. We are talking about rebels who are on the side of the former Vice-President against the supporters of the President, in an armed conflict with an ethnic dimension, which has caused a somewhat snowy major humanitarian crisis. The practices of which both parties are accused are not minor: mass murders, rapes, the use of child soldiers, in short, all kinds of things that make us horrified. The United Nations has deployed one of the largest peacekeeping missions with 14 000 soldiers. The extension of that mission was approved in November. There are more than two million refugees, and more than seven million people are at risk of disease and famine. There are thousands of deaths on which no precise figure can be stuck. According to the think tank, the International Crisis Group, the number of deaths would be around fifty thousand, but it might as well be a hundred thousand. More than 12,000 child soldiers would have been recruited. This is enough to ask perhaps the following questions. Is there any possibility that the United Nations could proceed to a more accurate assessment of the number of deaths? What are the possibilities for us to get a better idea of the tragedy that is taking place there? My second question has to be reworded, because it has been overtaken by the facts. The negotiating deadline is over. The United Nations has adopted a resolution to allow for sanctions. What are your expectations about that? What is the situation with regard to relations between our country and South Sudan? Are there any plans by our country, which is not participating in the mission in South Sudan, to provide humanitarian aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u44	Mr President, on Sunday 14 December 2014, a year after the armed conflict between President Salva Kiir and his former Vice-President Riek Machar, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations estimated the number of deaths in South Sudan to be tens of thousands. The UN estimate corresponds to estimates from other organisations. On the ground there was never a real ceasefire, despite a first agreement on this at the end of January 2014 between the Government of Kiir and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/ Army in Opposition of Machar and the subsequent agreements of early May and late August, which were reached under the auspices of the Regional Organisation Intergovernmental Authority on Development of IGAD. From the start of the conflict in South Sudan, Belgium and the European Union have chosen to support the mediation efforts of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, as demonstrated by the Foreign Affairs Council conclusions of Monday 20 January 2014. My fellow Members and I had then called for an immediate ceasefire and asked all political and military leaders to protect and act in the interests of the people. At their sixth summit on the South Sudan crisis on 7 November 2014, the seven IGAD Heads of State had given the warring parties 15 days to reach an agreement on the division of tasks between the President and the Prime Minister and an interim government. The IGAD also threatened for the first time with concrete sanctions and/or military intervention if the cease-fire was not respected. Despite the deadline, no agreement was reached and the fights continued. The most recent round of negotiations from Thursday 18 December to Sunday 21 December 2014 did not lead to significant results either. Unfortunately, therefore, there is a fear that a solution is not yet within reach. The effective establishment of the ceasefire and the start of an inclusive political dialogue remain the main challenges in the framework of the IGAD mediation efforts. On Friday 5 December 2014, the African Union Peace and Security Council decided to set up a high-level committee composed of five Heads of State and/or Government to support the IGAD efforts. Following the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday 15 December 2014, one year after the start of the armed power struggle in South Sudan, Belgium and the other 27 EU Member States once again expressed their dismay at the lack of a solution to the destructive conflict. The EU called on the parties to stop the conflict and reach a political agreement. So far, both sides have undermined the process by failing to honour their promises and to fight on. On 1 February 2015, President Salva Kiir and his former Vice President Riek Machar signed an additional agreement in Addis Ababa. However, the important questions about the distribution of power and the transitional government remained unanswered. Once again, it has been promised that the successive ceasefire agreements will be respected since 23 January 2014, but no action will be taken. During the final round of negotiations under the auspices of IGAD, which started on 23 February 2015, with a view to a full peace agreement on 5 March, the parties still did not reach agreement. Afterwards, IGAD chief negotiator Seyoum Mesfin suggested the option of a more direct role for the African Union and the United Nations to end the conflict. On Tuesday 3 March, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution with a sanctioning regime, including travel bans and the freezing of financial assets. Thirdly, Belgium and South Sudan have diplomatic relations. South Sudan belongs to the jurisdiction of the Belgian Embassy in Kampala in Uganda. South Sudan has an embassy in Brussels, which is also responsible for relations with the institutions of the European Union. The Kingdom of Belgium recognised the Republic of South Sudan as a sovereign and independent state on Thursday 14 July 2011. On Friday 14 October 2011, diplomatic and consular relations were confirmed through verbal note. The Royal Decree of Thursday 1 December 2011 on the recognition of the Republic of South Sudan was published in the Belgian Official Journal of Wednesday 14 December 2011. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that humanitarian aid does not fall within my competence, but falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Development. You can address your question to Minister De Croo. Questions about the possible participation of Belgian military and/or police personnel in the UN mission in South Sudan can be put to the Minister of Defence and/or the Minister of the Interior if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I urge that we closely monitor the situation in South Sudan. After all, South Sudan is getting a little less media attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u46	Mr Minister, there has also been a development in this dossier, but unfortunately not a pleasant development, quite the contrary. At the time I tabled this question, there was a major hunger strike on Kurdish political prisoners in the Iranian Orumiyeh prison. Some of those inmates were sentenced to death. They have begun their protests following the abolition of Article 12, in particular the specific section for political prisoners. They would be mixed by the new measure among serious criminals, drug addicts and other convicts of common law. According to certain Kurdish news sources, there would be a deliberate policy to subject those political prisoners to physical and psychological abuse by other detainees. Other Kurdish political activists joined in other prisons. In the meantime, this protest may have led to results. The hunger strike is over. If we are well informed, little is known about the fate of the prisoners. Iran continues to claim that human rights are an internal matter that other countries do not have to interfere with. It is nine years since Iran granted access to the country to a UN rapporteur on human rights. Of course, we can only regret that. I have a few questions about this. We are sure that a number of those sentenced to death have in the meantime actually been executed. Are you aware of the fate of the others? Are there any possibilities, in the light of the very great reluctance to use any other word in Iran for the UN or for human rights organisations to at least map the conditions of the detainees and, of course, to improve them if possible? Following on from the question just now, we would also like to ask you to exert political pressure on Iran not to execute the death penalty of the remaining prisoners and to respect human rights in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u47	Mr De Roover, I am aware of the fate of Kurdish political prisoners in Iran. According to our information, the prisoners concerned have stopped their hunger strike after their demand to be separated as political prisoners from the prisoners convicted of crimes of common law was met. In early January, one of the former hunger strikers was executed in Orumiyeh prison. Of course, it is primarily up to the country concerned itself to improve the conditions of the detainees. In any case, the UN is paying attention to the situation in prisons. For example, the recent UN resolution of the General Assembly on the human rights situation in Iran expressed deep concern about the poor conditions in Iranian prisons. Also during Iran's Universal Periodic Review, which took place in Geneva on 31 October 2014, the poor conditions in prisons were largely addressed in the questions and recommendations formulated by other countries. I see both bilateral and multilateral opportunities to express our concern about the human rights situation in Iran in general and about the issue of the death penalty and prison conditions in particular. I can assure you that in my bilateral contacts with the Iranian authorities I always place human rights on the agenda. This happened, for example, during my visit to Iran last year. In addition, our country supports the resolutions on the human rights situation in Iran of the United Nations General Assembly and of the Human Rights Council. This last resolution provides for the annual renewal of the mandate of the special rapporteur for the human rights situation in Iran. To support his work, Belgium intervenes during the interactive debate with the special rapporteur. Finally, our country intervened during the Universal Periodic Review of Iran, which I just mentioned. In particular, our country expressed its concern about the frequent use of the death penalty and made recommendations on the death penalty, the right to a fair trial and freedom of expression. We are moving in the same direction in all contacts with Iran at bilateral or multilateral level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your continued attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u49	Mr President, Minister, this is a question in which a fellow countryman may be involved. In October 2014, British media reported that there was a trade between IS fighters and Turkish hostages, who were employees and diplomats of the Turkish consulate in Mosul. The Turkish security services reported that this was a pre-planned operation and that no ransom was paid. This means that 180 IS fighters could possibly be re-assigned. The British media reported that among those jihadists were also people from EU countries, namely British, French, Sweden and also a Belgian. That attracted our particular attention. Do you now have the guarantee that he is a Belgian Syrian warrior? If so, do we know who it is? Has there been an arrest warrant issued against this person? How are we faced with the fact that Turkey would have transferred someone of Belgian nationality to IS? Were you informed of this exchange by the Turkish authorities, at least if it took place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u50	Mr President, Mr De Roover, unfortunately I cannot confirm that information. I will contact my colleague, the Minister of Justice. Maybe other services, such as the Federal Office or State Security, have more information that might confirm your data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u51	Minister, I would ask that this matter be followed up. If it really is a Belgian national, it should be our special interest. In the meantime, I have heard from Mr Bellens that for the time being the Minister of Justice has little, not to say no, information. Maybe it'll come. I am counting on you to inform us in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u52	Mr President, Minister, in the Burmese state of Arakan, the Rohingya, a minority Muslim population, are being persecuted by the regime. Displaced in 2012, they are housed in police-controlled camps. There are reports of deplorable living conditions and severe violations of human rights, including diseases, malnutrition, summary executions, forced labour, rape, torture and various forms of abuse. Stateless, they are considered by the UN as one of the most persecuted minorities in the world. Korea's Yanghee Lee, Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Burma, presented an overwhelming report on the situation to the UN General Assembly in July. An identity problem is at the root of this crisis, which is heading towards a humanitarian catastrophe: the official thesis of the state of Arakan and the central government is that they are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, although they have been living in Burma for decades. Mr Minister, the observers on the spot testify to a very tense situation and to the risk of massacres. What is the current status of this threat? How has the situation changed since the submission of the report to the UN General Assembly? In the context of Burma's reforms, what measures have been taken with regard to the situation of the Rohingya? What is their place in Burmese society? What initiatives have been taken to ensure that the Burmese Government fulfils its obligations to assist that population and to respect human rights? Has Belgium taken any bilateral or multilateral initiatives in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u53	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, you are right to say that the situation of the Rohingya people has been worrying for a long time and certainly continues to be so. Their living conditions in Burma are still dramatic and they continue to be discriminated against. We are also concerned about the situation of the tens of thousands of Rohingyas who have fled the country. The international community, of course, does not remain inactive in terms of both diplomatic pressure and resources. The United Nations addressed the issue of the Rohingya when it presented a report on the situation of human rights in Myanmar to the General Assembly. An appeal was made, inter alia, to end discrimination, stop violence, stop human rights violations, restore the rule of law and make every effort to improve the humanitarian situation. The European Union has maintained a human rights dialogue with Myanmar since 2014. The Rohingya issue was extensively addressed during the first dialogue, which took place in May 2014 in Rangoon. In addition, the European Union is investing large sums of money for the state of Arakan, where the Rohingya are located. More or less €70 million was spent in 2014 to improve the humanitarian situation. Belgium finances a EUR 150 000 UNESCO project in this state through conflict prevention. It aims at better understanding between communities through access to education. Finally, in all my meetings with the dignitaries of this country, I have always pleaded for citizenship to be granted to Rohingyas and for unlimited humanitarian access in the state of Arakan. I will not fail to argue in this direction again in the future. In addition, I would like to express my support for the statement made by the European Union delegation in Myanmar on 12 January on anti-Muslim bills. They relate to interreligious marriage, religious conversion, monogamy and population control. In its statement, the European Union called on Myanmar to comply with its human rights obligations and pointed out that elements of those projects were not compatible with the ongoing democratic transition. This process of democratization has entered a crucial phase. Intercommunal tensions, including the Rohingya issue, the peace process with ethnic groups and the upcoming elections scheduled for this year, are major challenges for the democratization of this country. The European Union and Belgium are following the situation closely and will continue to assist Myanmar as much as possible so that these challenges can be successfully addressed and, you are right to recall, try to ensure that minorities can be genuinely protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would simply say that, despite the current situation on other issues which unfortunately concern us, attention should be paid to such situations which are far less media, but which are just as disastrous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 1 1005 by Mr De Roover and Mr De Roover, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr De Vriendt's 1325 amendments were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u56	Mr President, Minister, on 16 December 2014 the report of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights on the state of human rights in Hungary was published. The report is severe. It poses a threat to media freedom, a rise in racism, intolerance towards Roma, Jews and a denigration of homosexuals and the homeless. The lack of appropriate sanctions for the perpetrators of acts of incitement to racial hatred was also pointed out, as was the lack of progress on the rights of persons with disabilities. In short, Hungary under Viktor Orbán is not improving. That is the least we can say about respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. As a reminder, on 26 January 2012, the House voted a resolution on the new Hungarian Constitution that failed to recall legally binding international obligations, such as the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. The resolution called on the federal government to support all the Council of Europe's efforts to ensure Hungary's respect for international conventions protecting fundamental rights. It also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to report periodically to the House on the progress of the measures taken by the European Commission and the European Council to ensure compliance with the European Treaties. The report of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights gives us an opportunity to do so. So, Minister, can you let me know what the results of the measures taken by the European institutions are? Do you consider that these measures are sufficient in the light of the report of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights? Is there regular consultation with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs on this issue? What are the suites reserved for it? Will the human rights situation in Hungary, as clarified in the report, be addressed during the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe? Finally, if necessary, is an interview with the Hungarian Prime Minister planned during this presidency to invite him to make his government more respectful of international commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u57	Mr President, Minister, violations of certain fundamental rights and infringements of freedom of expression are a major feature of Prime Minister Viktor Orban's policy. The various bodies of the European Union (Council, Commission and Parliament) recognise that this lack of respect for European values is a problem, but seem to find it difficult to remedy it. Yet it is the credibility of the European Union to counter these attacks on European values when they are proven. As Hungary is an integral part of the European Union and the Council of Europe, this is a famous paradox. A new legal framework was presented by the Commission in March 2014 to safeguard the rule of law in the Union. It is intended to fill the political gap between the investigation procedure and the use of Article 7 of the Lisbon Treaty. It would put pressure on the Member States concerned and penalise their drifts. Minister, in this heavy context, how is diplomatic relations between Hungary, Belgium and the European Union evolving? What is the status of the Commission's plans to better protect the rule of law in Europe? In 2012, the House adopted a motion for a resolution, referred to by my colleague from the PS Group, on the revised Hungarian Constitution. One of its demands was that you periodically report to the House on the progress of the measures taken by the European Commission and the European Council to ensure compliance with the European Treaties. What is the development of the situation in Hungary, particularly in the implementation of its new Constitution? Do other Member States have or could they adopt legislation threatening European values and be involved in monitoring the European institutions? In the same theme, the Fidesz-KDNP coalition, which has dominated the Hungarian Parliament since the 2000 and 2014 parliamentary elections and brought Viktor Orbán to power, no longer has its superb two-thirds majority that it had previously enjoyed. In practice, the impact of this partial vote will be minor, since Viktor Orbán has already profoundly changed the Hungarian institutions by, among other things, having a new Constitution rejected, but entered into force on 1 January 2012. Minister, how do you view the Hungarian Conservative government's loss of its superb majority? Are there any projects that have been criticized in the light of European values that are blocked in Parliament? What are the implications for diplomatic relations between our country and Hungary in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is one of our partners in the European Union. Our bilateral relations are generally good, which does not prevent us from remaining attentive to developments in the country. The new Hungarian Constitution has strengthened the position of the executive branch, which has helped the Hungarian government to implement its programme. But this strong position also carries risks in terms of pluralism. In this respect, I can only agree with the statements made by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who, during her visit to Budapest on 2 February, stressed the need to respect the role of the opposition, civil society and the media. The European Union has not remained inactive on this issue. Following the second revision of the Hungarian Constitution, the European Commission launched an infringement procedure. This procedure covered the provisions relating to the independence of the Central Bank, the retirement age of judges and members of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the independence of data protection authorities. As a result of this procedure, Hungary has made amendments to its Constitution. The fourth revision of the Constitution also provided for certain provisions which, according to the European Commission, were not in conformity with European law, such as the possibility of transferring cases between different courts or the limitation of the possibilities of election advertising during the pre-election campaigns. The Commission sent a letter on this subject to the Hungarian authorities. They made a series of commitments in response to the questions raised. The European Commission remains vigilant. At the end of 2014, the Hungarian government withdrew its proposed internet tax after the European Commission denounced this measure as a limitation of fundamental freedoms. On the other hand, there is no consultation on the subject with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Policy. The situation in Hungary does not fall within the Union's external relations for which Mrs Mogherini is competent. The infringement procedures launched by the European Commission, even if they are effective, remain limited in their purpose. They assume that the Commission can prove that the Member State in question has infringed a provision of European law. It's not always possible. Infringement proceedings can also take a long time to complete. Therefore, some Member States, including Belgium, have argued for a mechanism for the Union to respond more quickly to a clear threat of infringement of the rule of law within a Member State. Following this invitation, the European Commission presented a communication on the subject in March 2014. This Communication specifies how the Commission intends to respond to threats to the rule of law that would be of a systematic nature, i.e. that could not be settled by the domestic legal order of the Member States. In such a case, the Commission foresees a process which develops in several phases: an evaluation and consultation with the authorities of the State concerned, the formulation of recommendations and the follow-up of these recommendations. At the end of last year, conclusions were adopted by the General Affairs Council. These conclusions provide for the establishment within the Council of the Union of an annual dialogue on respect for the rule of law in all Member States, as well as the possibility of holding debates on thematic issues. On the occasion of the first debates on the constitutional changes in Hungary, I spoke on behalf of the Benelux in the General Affairs Council on the specific situation in Hungary and on the measures to be taken to put in place new instruments in the hands of the Commission. We'll probably have the opportunity to come back. I also spoke in the context of the General Affairs Council to stress a pace of consultations on the dialogue on the rule of law. Indeed, there is no reason to engage in a very active dialogue – at least it can be said – on the observance of economic criteria such as the Maastricht criteria for joining the euro, and not to engage in such a dialogue on political criteria. The Council of Europe, for its part, is a pan-European forum for dialogue and cooperation on the basis of commitments. This is the system of conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights, and binding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Belgium has always supported these instruments as well as mechanisms or institutions such as the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights, which monitors the effective implementation of these commitments and judgments. As an illustration of our commitment, I recall that our country is using its privileged position as chair of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to strengthen these mechanisms by organizing, next spring, a ministerial conference dedicated to the execution of the Court's judgments. Mr Blanchart, I can inform you that I took note of the victory of the independent candidate Mr Zoltan Kesz in the by-elections in Veszprém on 22 February. In addition, I note that the Hungarian government, despite the defeat of its candidate, still has a comfortable majority in the parliament in Budapest, with 132 seats out of 199. Bills generally require a simple majority. However, in a number of cases specified by the Hungarian Constitution, the support of a two-thirds majority of parliamentarians is required, for example, for the amendment of the Constitution and cardinal laws – the equivalent of our organic laws – the election of the President of the Hungarian Republic, the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court or the deployment of Hungarian military personnel in the context of international military operations. That being said, most observers on the Hungarian political scene believe that it is not in the Hungarian government's intention to present bills to parliament aimed at changing the Hungarian Constitution considerably in the immediate future. It has already been amended five times since 2010. Moreover, it remains to be seen whether the heterogeneous opposition, particularly the far right party members of Jobbik, will use its blocking minority in a consistent manner should the government put forward initiatives requiring a two-thirds majority. In general, the results of by-elections, whether in Hungary or elsewhere, do not affect Belgium's bilateral relations with the countries concerned. Belgium respects the choice of voters in democratic and transparent elections, as was the case in Veszprém.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u59	Mr President, I thank the minister for his very detailed answer. The positive initiative it has taken to propose other mechanisms for monitoring compliance with legal commitments within the European Union deserves to be underlined and supported. Undoubtedly, this is one way to get the Hungarian government to comply with some of its commitments under European law. However, it is clear that the Hungarian government is playing cat and mouse games with the European institutions. Honestly, it is a succession of initiatives that must always be the subject of an appropriate and firm response from the European Commission, but basically the Hungarian government does not seek to respect European legality in a general and consistent manner. The problem may become more political than legal. The procedures and the strengthening of the European Commission's powers of injunction or intervention are necessary when there are shortcomings which are not a matter of a constant and deliberate will, such as that demonstrated by the Hungarian Government, to undermine the achievements of the Union. These procedures are useful in bringing the states, if I may say so, back into the grip of European law. For example, there may be violations of European law in less sensitive areas. The question that will eventually arise is, in particular, within the European Council whether a more significant initiative should not be taken and whether a common analysis (starting with a number of states) should not be carried out on how to accept or not Hungary's participation in certain European bodies. I think there's something to do about it. I am not talking about inviting them to leave the European Union. However, it would be useful to know whether they felt more clearly the political reprimand of the governments and the European institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u60	Minister, I will go in the same direction. It is time to act for the credibility of the values of democracy in the European Union and their respect, particularly at the Council of Europe level, where it is sometimes difficult to pass a number of messages on to countries that are not members and which demand accession. Here, we're in an awkward paradoxical situation. We must give significant and significant political signs in order to regain a form of credibility in the light of our common values.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u61	Mr President, Minister, on 17 December, US President Barack Obama announced the normalization of relations between his country and Cuba after more than half a century of freezing relations between them. An American embassy should open its doors in Cuba soon and the lifting of the economic embargo would be discussed. In his speech, the U.S. President motivated his decision, in particular, by the fact that Cuba is living in extreme poverty and survives only through tourism and the help of Venezuela. The U.S. President has confessed in half-words that the American strategy of isolation has not borne fruit. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How do you view the announcement of normalization of relations between Cuba and the United States? What is the current state of diplomatic and socio-economic relations between Belgium and the EU and Cuba? Will this change in the attitude of the United States have an impact on the Belgian and European position? The 28 Heads of State and Government had decided in February 2014 to open a dialogue with a view to normalizing relations between the European Union and the Cuban regime. Can you give me any information on the progress of this dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u62	Mr Crusnière, I welcome the announcement of the normalization of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba at this stage. I hope that in the future the two countries concerned will find a positive way to resolve their differences in a comprehensive manner so that the American and Cuban peoples can live side by side but in good-neighbourliness. Belgium and Cuba have maintained unbroken diplomatic relations since 1902, the date of the island's independence. Both countries have an embassy in the respective capitals. Political and diplomatic contacts take place on a regular basis while a memorandum of cooperation between our two foreign ministries was signed in July 2013 in Havana. There is a climate of constructive dialogue between the Belgian and Cuban authorities. Moreover, Belgium is the only European country to have ever ceased its bilateral development cooperation with Cuba, which the Cuban authorities like to recall. At European Union level, our country is in favour of negotiations to reach a new framework for relations with Cuba in the context of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement. From an economic point of view, the latest full figures for 2013 indicate that Belgian exports to Cuba amounted to EUR 45.6 million, while our imports amounted to some EUR 111.7 million. Only one significant Belgian investment is worth mentioning: it is the Belgian participation of AB Inbev in the emblematic Cuban brewery company Bucanero. A major obstacle to our bilateral trade, however, remains the still limited availability of export credit insurance and, of course, the U.S. banking and financial regulatory and legislative restrictions still in force under the Helms-Burton Act passed in 1996 by the U.S. Congress. Relations between the European Union and Cuba continue to be based on the common position adopted in 1996. This common position provides, in particular, for the European Union to pay great attention to respect for human rights in Cuba. There is no institutional and legal link between the European Union and Cuba. In 2012, the High Representative, Catherine Ashton, received a mandate from the Council to explore the possibilities of negotiating a framework agreement, while keeping in place the common position mentioned above. On 10 February 2014, the Council agreed with the draft negotiating mandate. On 29 and 30 April, a first round of negotiations took place in Havana, followed by a second round in Brussels on 27 and 28 August. A third round, originally scheduled for January 2015 in Havana, was submitted at Cuba's request. In this way, the Cuban authorities wanted to express their dissatisfaction with EU contacts with members of the opposition. Nevertheless, a third round has been accepted by Cuba and will take place in March or April next. Belgium has, from the outset, supported the dialogue between the European Union and Cuba and the negotiation of the framework agreement and will continue to do so. I am convinced that such an agreement will provide the Union with even more means to plead with Cuba for respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u63	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u64	The strong popular mobilization launched against Haitian President Martelly plunged into violence last December. The population, plunged into misery, demanded the resignation of the president and the holding of general elections on the island. The appointment on 25 December of Prime Minister Evans Paul and the signing on 29 December of the tripartite agreement between the representatives of the three major powers of the state around the pre-election crisis paved the way for a resolution of the institutional and political crisis. But just a few days before the fifth anniversary of the terrible earthquake that had devastated the island, left more than 220,000 dead and more than 2 million Haitians homeless, the humanitarian situation remains dire. It is estimated that more than 350,000 people currently live in 496 camps where living conditions are gradually deteriorating. How do you view the political situation in Haiti? What are the prospects for change? Could you provide us with an account of the situation on the spot? What is the status of the reconstruction process? The situation still seems catastrophic in terms of housing, health and education. Have long-term policies and reforms in these areas been put in place by the international community and/or agencies supported by Belgium? In 2010, the Belgian Emergency Consortium had raised more than 26 million euros. Which projects Belgium has thus been able to help set up? After our country's emergency assistance, what was our contribution to the reconstruction process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u65	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, I will try to take stock of all the issues raised. Since the failure of the negotiations between the government and the opposition to keep Parliament in operation beyond the deadline of 12 January, the political situation in Haiti has experienced a very precarious balance. Against the backdrop of tensions and demonstrations on the streets, a new government was formed, headed by an opposition figure, Prime Minister Evans Paul. The latter, appointed without the constitutional approval of Parliament, leads a new fragile cabinet that struggles to reach consensus around its members. Similarly, the establishment on 22 January of a provisional electoral council with a view to holding the elections repeatedly postponed in the country was a source of criticism as to its independence. As we understand it, the context is difficult and everyone must act with responsibility and restraint so as not to aggravate an already very delicate situation. Faced with the many unknowns of the Haitian equation, our priority must be the functioning of democratic institutions in Haiti. The will shown by the power to hold elections in the coming months is a step in the right direction that will naturally have to be judged by the actions. It is up to the Haitians to find a solution to the crisis and I note the involvement of the international community that encourages the maintenance of the dialogue between the power and the various political parties. In the event of a blockage and slippage, the action of the United Nations will be decisive in bringing the country out of the crisis. The international community as a whole must remain mobilized to maintain pressure and ensure that all conditions are met for transparent, credible and inclusive elections as soon as possible. It is a fact that after five years, Haiti is still struggling to recover from the terrible earthquake that struck the country, also the poorest country in the region. However, significant progress should not be overlooked. According to the latest figures from the International Organization for Migration, there were 1.5 million people and 1,555 camps in June 2010. Today, some 80,000 people remain in some 100 camps, representing a 94 per cent reduction in the number of internally displaced persons. Thousands of homes have been built or repaired. Despite the cholera epidemic, which has claimed more than 8,500 victims since 2010, there has been a downward trend in the number of cases recorded since the end of 2012. Some 75 per cent of the 20 million cubic metres of debris caused by the earthquake were removed from the streets. Primary school enrolment increased from 50 per cent in 2006 to 77 per cent in 2012. Nevertheless, despite efforts by national authorities, civil society and international actors, the situation of vulnerable people is deteriorating due to a decline in funding and the number of humanitarian actors. The needs remain enormous. The most basic public services in health infrastructure and education work very badly, making the country extremely dependent on external assistance in all its forms. From the beginning of the reconstruction phase, Belgium was anxious to install its action for the duration by financing programmes and projects that emphasize not only the basic needs of the island (capacity-building, agriculture, food security, education, early childhood protection) but also the approval by the Haitian of their development strategy by being part of the national programmes of the Haitian government. Belgium is also present via Europe, which allocated an overall allocation of EUR 883 million during the tenth European Development Fund (EDF), covering the crucial period 2008-2013. The major sectors were humanitarian aid and risk and disaster reduction for € 234.3 million, as well as road transport for € 267.5 million. In addition, European programmes have improved food security for 750,000 Haitians. The eleventh EDF for the period 2014-2020 provides for an allocation of EUR 420 million in four intervention sectors, including education, vocational training, the disabled, food security and nutrition. The humanitarian aid provided by ECHO to Haiti over the period 2010-2013 exceeded €213 million. Belgium participates in reconstruction efforts through its contributions to United Nations agencies such as UNDP, UNICEF and FAO, as well as MINUSTAH. Belgian contributions to financial institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank should not be overlooked. In Haiti, UNDP selected five priority areas of work, including recovery and poverty reduction, as well as the fight against AIDS and tuberculosis. Total UNDP contributions to Haiti for the period 2011-2012 amounted to $92.7 million. UNICEF has also been highly engaged in Haiti since the disaster by involving itself in projects related to education, nutrition, health, water sanitation. As of June 2014, $10 million had been disbursed for health, nutrition and water. In April 2014, FAO provided $500,000 to support an emergency agricultural assistance project for rural populations affected by a drought in the lower northwest. In addition to its mandate to restore a secure and stable climate, MINUSTAH is also mobilizing logistical resources to contribute to efforts to address the cholera epidemic of October 2010. At the end of October 2014, a total of 8,896 military and civilian personnel were deployed. A budget of $500 million was approved for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015. In June 2010, the IMF's Board of Directors approved $60 million in credit to Haiti under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF) agreement, which aims to strengthen macroeconomic policies and stimulate economic growth in the context of the Government's plan of action for reconstruction and development. Studies at the beginning of January 2015 show that the EIF has contributed to maintaining macroeconomic stability and progress in structural reforms has also been noted. As of February 2014, Haitian GNP had increased by about 4%. Currently, the World Bank is engaged in 17 active projects for a total of $495 million. In October 2014, the World Bank announced a new $50 million investment for water and sanitation. Despite these impressive figures, we also realize that all of Haiti's recurrent problems have not disappeared in four years. For example, mothers or small traders who lost everything during the earthquake do not necessarily have a better life at present, even if they have been relocated. But reconstruction and good governance are long-term goals and each State, institution or person concerned can contribute to that. Development aid is the responsibility of my colleague in charge of development cooperation. I can simply tell you that, although Haiti is no longer one of the partner countries of Belgium's Direct Cooperation, our country remains very active through its indirect bilateral cooperation and multilateral cooperation, as I mentioned. In four years, between 2010 and 2013, the overall amount of Belgian official development assistance to Haiti amounted to more than 41.8 million euros, of which more than 22 million euros, or 52%, in humanitarian programmes. The Belgian government has kept its promises made at the donors' conference for Haiti in New York in March 2010, releasing 11 million euros for the emergency phase and 20 million euros for the reconstruction phase. Shortly after the earthquake, a B-FAST team was sent by the federal government to Haiti to provide relief to the victims. This B-FAST team comprised about 60 people divided into three groups: a medical intervention team with a field hospital, a USAR team (Urban Search and Rescue team) with four trackers dogs and a drinking water purification facility. For the years 2010-2011, B-FAST emergency aid amounted to almost 500,000 euros. Many programmes, projects initiated in 2011, 2012 and 2013 were still under implementation in 2014, including food security, agriculture, health, access to water and natural resources, and education. Finally, we remain convinced of the absolute need to involve local actors in the reconstruction of the country, which is why one of the conditions for the financing of Belgian NGOs active in Haiti is their close collaboration with the local Haitian fabric.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u66	I thank the Minister for this very detailed description of the situation in Haiti. I just have a subsidiary question to ask, Mr President: until what time do we work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic115x.u67	I'd like to consult the committee and the minister. I got the message from your cabinet that you could stay until 5:45. May I suggest we close the meeting here? I would like to thank the courageous colleagues who have stayed for so long.
