ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday there were elections in Greece. For the first time, the Christian Democrats and the Socialists have been expelled from power. Those are the parties that are responsible for part of what has gone wrong in Greece. From now on, Syriza is calling the shots, a coalition of radical left-wing parties. It's interesting to find out why this is happening. It was clear that there were limits to the absorption capacity of a democracy under the jurisdiction of Brussels and Washington. The question now is: how will Greece recover? Syria is firmly in favour of debt forgiveness and sees this as the only beauteous solution. We think that's wrong. There will indeed have to be a debate on the Greek debt and the country must again have a perspective, a positive project. At the same time, Greece really needs to work on structural reforms and the fight against clientelism and the cumbersome bureaucracy. We are concerned that the new government has decided to reverse a number of decisions taken by the old government, for example the privatisation of the port of Piraeus and the national electricity company. Thirdly, the reform must go hand in hand with investment in growth and jobs. The Juncker plan and the ECB's enlargement operation can bring relief. Maybe there will be new entrepreneurs like Onassis at the time. Minister, I have three questions. How do you estimate the consequences of the Greek election results? What space do you see in any redeployment or relief of debts? What are the diplomatic consequences of Syria's victory? I understand that you are meeting with your European colleagues this afternoon on additional sanctions against Russia following the attack in Marioepol. However, the new Greek government seems to have sympathies for Russia. Will you be able to reach unanimity within the Council this afternoon for any additional sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have great respect for democracy, including in Greece. It is a logical government created after the elections in Greece, which is worthy of the congratulations of the Belgian Government. Secondly, we have already seen a first decision by the new government. A first ministerial council took place on 28 January and there were some rather tough decisions taken, which did not really surprise me with the Syriaza programme, the great winner of the 25 January elections. In this context, I am thinking, among other things, of the end of the privatisation process at the port of Piraeus, at the end of the privatisation process of the national electricity company, of the rehiring of a number of officials who have been made redundant in recent years and of the preparation of a law to improve the Greek standard of living, in particular by raising the minimum salary. At international level, there is indeed the will to soften the European position vis-à-vis Russia. Those are the facts. Now we must wait for a clear and clear position from Greece and from the Greek Government in the European institutions. In this respect, I believe that there were already contacts within the Eurogroup. The President of the Eurogroup, the Dutch Finance Minister Dijsselbloem, is visiting Athens today and tomorrow for a discussion with Prime Minister Tsipras and the new Finance Minister, Mr Varoufakis. We share the view of other governments that Greece must first and foremost respect its commitment to the European Union. We are now waiting for a clear position on the part of Greece in the various Councils, including the European Councils. This afternoon I am thus waiting for the position that Greece will take on the Foreign Affairs Council before answering your question. So I'm gonna stay very careful. Once again, Greece must fulfil its commitments to the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u4	Minister, the Greek debt issue is very complicated and will require the necessary attention. Rejection will indeed be paid in cash by Greece. I am glad to hear you say that the Greeks must keep their commitment. Now it is up to the troika to find a solution. Pistes such as extending the duration or perhaps a small interest rate adjustment are certainly worth investigating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, no one is unaware of the diplomatic practice that when a Head of State dies, the country is not represented by its highest authorities, especially when that State is part of the first circle of friendly states in the European Union. Nevertheless, the presence of King Philippe at the initiative of the government to go and offer condolences, on behalf of the Belgian State, to the family reigning in Saudi Arabia calls and, to say the least, shockes! We must not remind you here, Saudi Arabia is really not a model of democracy. It is even a country that implements the sharia, as Daesh wants us to fight elsewhere. Saudi Arabia has financed radical extremist networks. It is she who seeks to restore herself to a proper role by being allied with the powers that intervene against Daesh, but one can wonder about Saudi Arabia's responsibility for the degradation of this part of the world. For many Democrats, the presence of the Head of State was not desirable in Riyadh last weekend. I cannot therefore understand this rather mediocre justification given by a statement on behalf of the government: "Saudi Arabia is a country with which we maintain diplomatic relations. It is therefore normal to go to Riyadh – "normal" – to pay homage to the king of the country." I would have liked more will on your part, despite the presence of other Heads of State and Government. The courage is sometimes to be able to dissociate themselves from those who, through the policy of cynicism, believe that it is enough to align themselves with the powers of money represented, in particular, by these countries of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Saudi Arabia is a country that violates human rights in a three-fold and systematic manner. Just look at the numerous reports by Amnesty International, the detention of dissidents without trial, the rights of women and the public decapitations that are regularly taking place there. Be sure to look at what happened to Raif Badawi, a blogger, who published his opinion on the internet and got a thousand lashes before that. What is our country doing, Prime Minister? We organize a visit from the highest royal level. King Filip, and therefore also the government, legitimizes a rogue regime. I wonder if you're aware of what you're doing. Do you realize what cynical signal our country sends to other countries that violate human rights? As long as you sell us oil, you actually say, "Do whatever you want, do whatever you want, whatever you're doing." Therefore, Prime Minister, a visit is not only horribly misplaced, but also unwise and counterproductive, if we want to promote human rights throughout the world as we claim to do. I come to a second element: the terrorist attacks in Paris and Verviers. Saudi Arabia is a notorious financier of international terrorism. Both Saudi Arabia and the Islamic State rely on wahabism, an extremely conservative interpretation of Islam. So, on the one hand, we are all Charlie, but on the other hand, we are going to shake hands with a regime that punishes free speech with a thousand lashes. That's not consistent. I come to my questions, Prime Minister. Was that decision taken collectively, including the other majority parties, CD&V, N-VA and Open Vld? How can you justify that decision and the royal visit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u7	Prime Minister, I have three questions for you and for your government. Firstly, do you agree with the whole international community and certainly the objective observers that Saudi Arabia is not a democracy? Do you agree that it is the cradle of radical Islamism that causes so many problems in the region and beyond? Do you agree that this country has a very bad reputation in terms of human rights, as the previous Members have already mentioned? I would like an answer from the government to this first question. Secondly, Prime Minister, I would like to read to you from your coalition agreement: Belgium will always pay attention in its bilateral relations to the respect of human rights by its partners. Prime Minister, is this a piece of paper, or is this something else? This visit by the King does not for a second follow the text of your coalition agreement! Thirdly and finally, Prime Minister, I invite you to make a critical comment on this regime where you, under your responsibility and under the responsibility of the government, sent the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listen very carefully to the arguments that are being developed. As far as I am concerned, I would like to stick to the facts. What are they? His Majesty the King visited Riyadh on January 26 to offer his condolences to the royal family and I covered this royal visit as part of the funeral. I do not resist the temptation to give you the few examples of the Heads of State and Government who were present. For France, President Hollande, for Spain, King Felipe, for the Czech Republic, President of the Chamber, for Denmark, Crown Prince Frederick and the Minister of Defence, for the United Kingdom, Prince of Wales and Prime Minister Cameron, for Italy, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for Poland, Deputy Prime Minister, for Sweden, King Carl Gustaf, for Germany, former President Wulff, for the Netherlands, King Willem-Alexander and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for Hungary, the Prime Minister and for Austria, the President of Parliament. U.S. President Barack Obama and the Crown Prince of Japan were also present. Then, since 1935, Belgium has maintained diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia. Very high-level visits are regularly organized. The last one took place in May 2014. The federal state and the Regions were represented as Princess Astrid was accompanied by Ministers Reynders, Marcourt and Frémault. At the political level, Saudi Arabia is an important partner of the anti-IS coalition. King Abdullah presented – some may recall – the Arab Peace Initiative proposal for the Middle East. Finally, it is crucial to defend human rights. To do so, we need a bilateral channel. That is what we are doing, in Geneva, for example, as well as in our bilateral relations. If those relationships exist, it's an opportunity to defend our opinion. That is why we choose effectiveness. As a result, you will have understood that I am defending and I maintain that King Philip's presence was justified and timely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u9	Prime Minister, your answer was agreed in advance: the follow-up! The follower, that's your only courage. Do not come and tell us the long list of the heads of State, of all those who indeed have, either a financial interest – we know what France is going to look for in Saudi Arabia to sell Rafale fighter planes – or a geopolitical interest, except that we can never deny Saudi Arabia's responsibility for financing international terrorism. When your party, Prime Minister, is going to organize the foundations of interculturality to worry about the financing of terrorism and radicalism in Belgium, ask yourself what is Saudi Arabia's role in this financing, including in Belgium, and in radicalism. So you once and for all say that there are whippings in this country, that raped women are not defended and that beheadings are made because of your hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u10	Prime Minister, first of all, you clearly say that the royal visit was covered by you. In other words, the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V have agreed to this. Secondly, you say that if other countries put their economic interests above human rights, and you have listed them, Belgium simply joins in. Prime Minister, there was a time when we were a pioneer in ethical foreign policy, not so long ago. Then we were celebrated for our principles. You are now defending a royal visit to a rogue state, a state that decapitates the public, that executes people, that in certain respects has exactly the same practices as that disgusting Islamic State, which we are all so opposed to. You're defending that regime. You also call it a chance for the King to go there. Did the King talk about human rights there? That is an open question, and I ask for an answer. I shall also put that question to the committee. Prime Minister, this is where we fight terror, the terror that is supported by a country where we go for coffee. That is not consistent and it is time for you to choose. Either you say "Je suis Charlie" or you say "Je suis Abdullah" to the Saudi king about it. You cannot continue to eat both sides: you cannot continue to propagate human rights and at the same time, when it comes to economic interests, you cannot continue to promote human rights. You can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, I have noticed that you have not even made a very slight criticism of the regime roll out of your mouth. I have also noticed that only the MR Group has applauded. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we feel that there will still be shipments to Saudi Arabia. Prime Minister, what we are already asking for is this. If there are any more shipments, please don't let them be just about oil and money. Belgium must also send a signal about human rights, about decapitations, about lashes for bloggers, about the export and financing of radical Islamism from Timbuktu to Peshawar and also about support for extremist groups. Prime Minister, that is what our country expects of you. We regret that you, together with your government, have covered a mission from the King and a regime that every objective observer considers to be a scandalous regime. We have sent the highest person in our country without any critical comment to that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, last night the social partners, the Group of Ten, left without agreement once again. It is known that the context is delicate; with the government agreement that you have sealed, it is not obvious to conclude agreements. But the social partners had the wisdom not to speak out at the end of this meeting and to give a chance to dialogue. On the other hand, in your government - I was able to witness it yesterday in the Social Affairs Committee - there are different points of view. On the one hand, the N-VA, through Mrs Demir, says that it does not trust the social partners because they are not sure that they work in the general interest, and on the other hand, Mr Peeters says that if an agreement is reached, the government will honour it. In your government, Prime Minister, some people throw oil on fire, others say they want to put oil in the workings of social consultation. And you, on which side do you stand? Above all, what does the government intend to place on the table to allow for an agreement? Historically, we know that social agreements are supported by government decisions, budgetary measures. Are you ready to contribute to social peace, necessary for our country's economy, to move on and to consider the social, environmental and societal challenges facing us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is clear that the Socialists attach great importance to social consultation; we have proved this for a long time, if not forever. Indeed, we are convinced that social dialogue is fuelling the richness of our social protection and welfare system. Having said that, we also believe that it is not enough to include it on many occasions in a government agreement; we must create conditions for dialogue and respect them. We would therefore like to recall that the Group of Ten is negotiating today, within the framework of the 1996 law, which guarantees, inter alia, automatic wage indexation and provides for discussions to be based on the report of the Central Economic Council. In short, a tripartite framework has been established. In order to achieve the goal of eliminating the wage gap by 2016 – your goal – two paths seem possible: either to abandon the index jump and to follow a relatively low wage standard, turning around 1%, or to maintain the index jump and set a more generous wage standard of the order of 2.5%. It is up to the social partners to choose the most appropriate route in the context of social dialogue. But we are concerned about Mr Peeters' statements. Indeed, he said the index jump would take place anyway. We therefore question the real margin of the social partners: does not your government simply intend to impose both? One might ask: would he want to impose index jump and maintain a low standard? This would be a breach of the original framework of negotiations as defined: in such a case, you would no longer respect that framework. Finally, the objective would no longer be the elimination of the wage gap, but the creation of an inverted wage gap, which would be unacceptable, dangerous for us and would risk reviving the social conflict that we experienced at the end of last year. Prime Minister, what is your government's objective? Is it to maintain the elimination of the wage gap, or would you like to go further? Is there a hidden agenda in this area? If the social partners were not to reach a comprehensive agreement, would your government make every effort to achieve the components on which the social partners would have concluded an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will once again reiterate that the government's will is to give all its chances to social consultation. I must not remind you that, before Christmas, the first agreements between the social partners and the government were reached on important issues, such as worker-employee status or career ends. In addition, immediately in early January, we reached out to the social partners in the Group of Ten. We have presented a framework, modalities, to give every opportunity to social consultation. It is in this context, which takes into account the proposals for timetables and subjects to be negotiated, that, as you mentioned, the social partners in the Group of Ten have been conducting negotiations for several days. I would like to try to remain serious. As soon as the social partners, together within the Group of 10, have to negotiate on a number of issues, and the government has an appointment with the social partners tomorrow morning at 8 a.m., I will not speak in this forum to complicate the processes that can take place in the coming hours. On the bottom, what is the subject? The aim is to check whether the social partners are likely to agree on the distribution of social envelopes which have been greatly valued in comparison with the previous legislature. The aim is to check what conclusions the social partners can draw from the report of the Central Economic Council and to present them to the government. And on a number of collective agreements, it is a question of how they can be extended or adapted. These are the topics under discussion. It is true that the whole government hopes that it will be possible to have an agreement between the social partners and to continue on this basis a quality dialogue between the government and the social partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, giving every opportunity to social dialogue must not only be translated into words, into a slogan; it must also be translated into action. To avoid sowing zizania in social dialogue should not only be translated into words; it should be translated into action. Yesterday, in the Social Affairs Committee, a government partner clearly acted as if he wanted the dialogue to stop. Prime Minister, on the social front, your government agreement is even worse than the previous one. We have to do it! Social peace is necessary. To get it, you need to do some gestures. We mentioned the removal of the index jump. We ask you to give the social partners the ability to secure agreements that go back to your government's options: wage increases, a coherent and effective social policy. Those aren't big words! This is not against the economy, on the contrary! This can make it possible to redeploy the latter and restore consumer confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, unfortunately, your answer is neither more nor less than a non-response. Having a quality dialogue is all we want you to do. But we regret that you have not taken a position on the fundamental issues, namely wages and indexation. We hope, in any case, that an agreement will be reached and that, in the end, you will give up – this is an ideological position – the index jump that is absolutely not justified. On the other hand, if there is no comprehensive agreement, will your government at least implement the points that have been agreed, as has been the case in the past? I regret the absence of an answer on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have hesitated to ask you a question today, because I know that it is not good to debate much in a troubled climate. That is one of the difficulties in this respect. I would therefore like to thank you for finding time, despite your busy agenda, to look at local problems as well. I know that a lot of your services, security services, things are moving and things are moving forward. I can only appreciate that. Nevertheless, I have come here to ask you this question and, more importantly, to make an appeal. For this, I base myself on what was said by all the parties at the last meeting of the committees gathered, on which everyone agreed that anxiety and fear destroy a society. That was said by members of the majority and of the opposition. However, there is a great deal of concern and fear. Hence my appeal to all democratic parties, majority and opposition and at every level of policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our democratic duty to join forces and to fight that fear together. I note that there is a turbulent debate, with members of the majority calling into question measures decided by the majority and Ministers now saying that they are no longer realistic on certain decided measures. I also note that things are being said other than what has been decided. As a blow to the head, and that is the real problem, there is the clash between the federal government and the Brussels government. That creates unrest. That weighs on the minds of those who have to protect us, of the security services. Prime Minister, what measures do you intend to take to achieve a real unity of command? Do you really consider the appointment of someone who can form the bridge between the different policy powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are all aware of Mr Vervoort's statements, followed by statements of support from Mr Moureaux. It is in no way acceptable that innocent victims of World War II should be compared with terrorists. That's not gonna happen to me. Everyone's convicted of that. However, it also says something about the opposition strategy of the PS, which had apparently changed. After the massive aggression following the inquisition debate, the rifle would be changed from shoulder to shoulder. There would be only socio-economic opposition. However, such statements have shown that this has not taken long. However, that is not the most important thing. Prime Minister, you have condemned all of this. However, Mr Vervoort's statements have given rise to questions to the public about the practical implementation of the measures announced by the government. These measures were announced in a timely and forceful manner. However, the question arises as to whether they will be implemented equally vigorously. Will they give rise to lengthy debates on legal aspects, privacy and so on? Prime Minister, the people are expecting a strong signal. My question is whether you can give this signal to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Bonte for his words. I share his reasoning. In these crucial matters, it is very important to work seriously together in order to provide a strong response. It is right that we are faced with new dangers and new risks. Excellent cooperation is therefore very important. That is a first point. Secondly, I repeat that the government has very quickly decided on 12 concrete measures. There is no doubt that it is the political will of this government to implement these measures as soon as possible. We want to come to Parliament as soon as possible with drafts on which Parliament will have to vote. Other measures are more of an administrative nature. You are all aware of the twelve concrete measures that we want and must implement. Thirdly, over the last few days and weeks, we have found that greater coordination at local level between Brussels and the areas around Brussels is also an important point. We have received a few signals about this. The Minister for Security and Home Affairs and the Minister for Justice have taken decisions very quickly to organise coordination between the Brussels zone and the areas around Brussels, under the leadership of a magistrate, in particular the federal prosecutor. This is also an important political signal to the local authorities. It is not obvious or easy, but the political will of the government is to give the strongest possible support to all local actors who are directly involved in the concrete difficulties in the field. Another important point concerns the security services. We know that more resources and support for the security services are also important. The Minister for Justice and the Minister for Security also decided to strengthen the resources for intelligence as soon as possible. We are aware that, over the next few days and weeks, we will carefully consider how we can always support our security services. We are also aware that, in the fight against radicalism and terrorism, there are certain responsibilities and powers at the federal level. There are also capacities and responsibility for cooperation at local and federal level. A few days ago, the first official meeting of the Consultation Committee took place. Together with the Länder, the government has taken a first decision to establish a platform to better coordinate the fight against radicalism and terrorism with all actors involved in this important issue. Finally, we are determined. We know that our fundamental values, our democratic values and fundamental freedoms are at stake. We are determined to overcome in the fight against terrorism and radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u20	Prime Minister, I can indeed see that, even in the region where I am locally active, various initiatives are being taken very quickly by a number of bodies. However, I would like to stress once again that security policy is not progressing very well, although efforts are being made in a number of cities or regions, if little is being done in addition. A security against terrorist threats must be done everywhere. We need boldness and speed, but also unity of command, if I may call it that, across all democratic parties. I am a little disappointed by what my colleague once again brings to the fore, apart from the fact that he may be right about the way in which Mr Vervoort approaches the debate. I believe that majority and opposition should discuss together and take action in this respect. Finally, in connection with the Consultative Committee, I read in the newspaper statements of ministers such as'screw', but no more'screw', or 'we wonder if this talk barracks can still make a difference'. Mr Prime Minister, once again, be firm and seek cooperation at all levels of policy. For us, it is really necessary to clarify who is coordinating and how we are all progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u21	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. I certainly do not doubt your good intentions to continue the fight against radicalism and terrorism. All I ask is that you, along with the entire government team, continue and maintain the course. I would like to call on my fellow Members in this House, once the draft laws have come in here, to deal with them constructively and very quickly, because that is in everyone's interest. Mrs Onkelinx, I have a small message for you. I have read that you have also rebuked Mr Vervoort. That is a good thing, even if you did it with a water gun, unlike the weapon you used a few months ago when you thought you had to put other colleagues on trial. That incident may be a lesson to you, that it can always be handled a little more modestly. Something in me tells me you use the water gun better than the machine gun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, as part of the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz camp, you delivered a strong speech at the Great Synagogue in Brussels. In particular, you said: "The fight against anti-Semitism is a failure. The gaps are glaring in our learning about citizenship and in the transmission of universal values to younger generations." It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the slogan "Never again!" Unfortunately, it seems less relevant than ever. The attacks at the Jewish Museum in Brussels or more recently at the Hyper Hider in Paris were distinctly targeted at Jewish populations. According to a study by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, published in 2013, 28% of Belgian respondents said they had been subjected to anti-Semitic attacks, whether verbal or physical; 40% of them were planning to leave Belgium, their country, not feeling safe because they were Jewish. I dare not even imagine, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what the results of similar research would be if it were to be undertaken today. It is also known that more and more Belgian families have already made the choice of departure. Prime Minister, you said you wanted to make the fight against anti-Semitism a national cause. Can you tell us what your government's actions and initiatives are in this direction? Your Government has already taken a series of steps to ensure the safety of all but also to protect the most sensitive targets. Further measures are envisaged. Minister, what are your government's initiatives at European level to combat anti-Semitism and negationism that are developing throughout Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wilmès, you are right: unfortunately the facts are there, they are tragic and sad. In the aftermath of World War II, all of us, with their hands on their hearts, said and thought, "Never again!" However, we are faced with an upsurge in anti-Semitic attitudes, behaviour and acts, as well as radicalism, up to the dramatic acts we have experienced. Just a few months ago, a young woman, a child, had to leave the Athene Emile Bockstael because she was harassed by comrades in her school. She was the last Jewish student in this school. A few months ago, in Antwerp, a bus carrying young Jewish children was riddled with stones. You have highlighted studies that show this rise in anti-Semitic attitudes and acts. No one can accept that Belgian citizens should consider leaving our country because they do not feel safe there. We can't just stand up to that. I confirm this: I considered it necessary to say that the fight against anti-Semitism must be a national cause. This means that we must put in place zero tolerance for anti-Semitism. Each act must be the subject of a complaint. Each complaint must be monitored by the authorities concerned. We have taken steps to secure sites, places and buildings. We are in contact with representatives of the Jewish community to see how it is possible to further improve efforts in this context. In general, in connection with raising the level of alert to 3 on a scale of 4, some additional measures have been taken. At European level, we will have in a few days a European Council devoted to the fight against radicalism and terrorism. I will ensure that Belgium shows a great deal of determination to bring this issue also to the attention of European bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u24	Prime Minister, first of all, I thank you for your strong words at the Great Synagogue in Brussels, but also for your words today. These remarks are extremely important to the Jewish community, but not only. They are fundamental to all of us. As you also said, Prime Minister, when an anti-Semitic act is committed in Belgium, it is not only the Jews who are affected, it is the entire Belgian society that is attacked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u25	Prime Minister, we are always in favour of fundamental federalism for cooperation. The basis for this is governments that jointly tackle challenges under their own autonomous powers. Thanks to the sixth state reform, which had broad support here, the Consultation Committee gained more body. The law finally recognises the Consultation Committee as a central point for policy coordination. It is no longer, as in the past, the place where conflicts are fought or settled. Nor is it the place where delay manoeuvres are deployed. It is above all a place where, as the word itself indicates, the federal government and the Länder are consulted. Prime Minister, you held your first official meeting yesterday. You already had an initial informal contact with the Prime Ministers on this matter. That meeting won't be too soon. After all, the greatest challenges facing our country today require a coordinated response from all governments. I am thinking here of the budgetary exercise and the European test. I am thinking here, as you have just mentioned in the previous reply, of combating terrorism and radicalisation. However, I am also thinking of the climate problem, for which all the governments of our country are partly responsible. Prime Minister, I understand that a monthly meeting will take place and that a series of inter-ministerial conferences will be set up, which is good news. Firstly, can you explain to us the decisions you all made yesterday? Secondly, how will the ministerial consultations proceed? Has there been any kind of internal rules, which provide guarantees to the various governments for a smooth consultation? What are the substantive priorities that the Consultation Committee sees for consultation? My third question, since I am chairman of the Subcommittee for the Court of Auditors, will not surprise you: to what extent can the work of the Consultative Committee be monitored? The sixth state reform gives the agendas and decisions to the various governments and thus to the federal Parliament. How will you take care of things?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the reasoning that the sixth state reform, which we wish to carry out, gives new scope to the Consultation Committee. In the past, there were few meetings of the Consultation Committee, only two or three times a year. We have now decided, together with the Länder, to hold a meeting every month. Yesterday, there was the political will to see the Consultative Committee not only as an instrument for solving problems, but also as a means of taking good decisions together preventively. This is a different approach and I hope that it will be possible to cooperate with the Länder in a positive and constructive atmosphere in the coming months, in the interests of all citizens in our country. Mr Van Biesen, you asked about the first decisions made. There were 18 items on the agenda yesterday and some of them were already decided yesterday. We have set up a platform in the Consultation Committee for combating radicalisation and terrorism and adopted a draft law on regulation in the telecommunications sector. We have also defined the modalities of the discussions on other important issues. This is the case, for example, for the climate debates, which are not evident between the Länder in our country and the federal level. We have also approved the modalities for concluding agreements on Burden Sharing over the next few weeks and months. I also call for positive federalism, a federalism with solutions. Your last question was about Parliament's follow-up and how Parliament will be informed. I am open to coming to the Chamber regularly to explain the decisions of the Consultation Committee, in all transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, we have received an enlightening answer here, which determines the functioning of the Consultative Committee for the future. In my view, it is indeed necessary for Parliament to have full access, not only to the agenda, but also to be informed of decisions. There's the saying good deals make good friends. This must be the essence: one must work together and tackle the challenges together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u28	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the regions of Mons and Charleroi are flourishing with large advertising banners praising the Polish labour site.be. It is in fact an advertisement for a company, Poolse Vakman Belgié, which has developed in Flanders, Brussels and, recently, in the regions of Mons and Charleroi. It makes low-cost workers available to companies; they are welders, electricians, masons and even cooks. This clearly does not date from today, as the company has been operating in Belgium for six years. The Confederation of Construction has pronounced itself and affirms that this company is outlawed. Of course, it is not up to you, Minister, to say how much these practices endanger our businesses and job seekers. Minister, are you aware of the existence of this society? Is it really outlawed? How is it that it could have been created when its name is not confusing? LabourerPolonais.be leaves no doubt as to its social object. Have there been social inspections in this society during these six years? If so, what about it? Is this not further proof of the shortcomings existing not only at European level but also in Belgium in terms of social dumping and unfair competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I will be very brief. The Social Law Inspectorate has already begun an investigation into this enterprise. This survey takes place in both Flanders and Wallonia. It is not limited to the monitoring of compliance with the legislation; controls will also be carried out on compliance with ONSS legislation, for example. It is impossible for me to communicate the results of this investigation to you since it is still in progress. As stated in the Government Agreement, the fight against social dumping is a priority and we will organize round tables with sectors at risk in order to empower them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u30	Minister, thank you. The investigation is under way and we expect its results. Since this company has been in operation for six years, I hope that we will not wait too long to clarify this matter and take the necessary action. That being said, this shows the shortcomings of the Social Inspectorate because this society has existed for six years! This shows the flaws in how this company was created and the flaws in the fight against social dumping and unfair competition. A series of questions arise at European level and we will have to move forward on social Europe and fiscal Europe. Furthermore, since this Parliament does not seem extremely busy, I think it would be particularly good if we could start the major debate on reducing the cost of work. Nothing prevents us from getting to work on proposals in tax matters. I hope that the government, and even more so the parliamentarians of the majority, will agree to move forward on this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u31	The Minister of Finance replies in place of the Minister of the Interior. Mrs Muylle has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u32	Minister, last week it was reported that the Flemish government only approved six months after the facts the recognition as a disaster of the abundant rainfall that occurred in several municipalities in July 2014. Unfortunately, the federal level cannot present such a fine report. Unfortunately, at the federal level, eleven accreditations have still not happened. However, the facts date from 2012 to the Pentecost weekend of 2014. That's a long time. Some people have been waiting a year and a half or even two years for the facts to be recognised. It's about thousands of files. All my fellow Members are involved, because for each province there are files at the Rampen Fund. I therefore find it irresponsible that there is still no answer today. I'm following the file very closely. In the past it has been answered that there was insufficient budget because in current cases sufficient resources could not be made available. It was also said that the transfer had taken place to Flanders and that there was insufficient staff. I think that after a year and a half of such answers, action can actually follow. There is a great deal of private damage that is not covered by insurance, such as the hail damage of Pentecost. It's about a lot of farms. Often people see their business lost, because there is already a crisis in the sector. My question is very clear. Why hasn't the recognition taken place yet? Is it for budgetary reasons? Is it for personnel reasons? When will the federal level proceed with recognition? After that, the road is still long, the people affected have to file files, expertise needs to be provided and the payout still needs to be made. I think they've waited long enough. Now they expect an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u33	Mrs Muylle, as you have said, there are still 11 emergency cases to be recognised. Nine of those 11 files are fully ready. For the other two, the final opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate is still awaited. These dossiers will be put into a package for the Council of Ministers. It's about the latest files that will be federally arranged. All the following dossiers, as you have already indicated yourself, will be dealt with at regional level. In this last federal package, if I may call it that, there are still files from 2012 and 2013. Now it can be relatively fast: once a disaster has been recognized by the Council of Ministers and after publication in the Belgian Official Journal, the affected citizens have three months to submit their individual files. Most people have already done this proactively, so most of the files are inside. The 11 disasters together contain some 25 000 completed files. My colleague from the Interior, who I am replacing here, will ensure that the necessary personnel are deployed to deal with these files as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say it can be relatively fast. I've been here ten years, and it's not the first time I've been standing here on such files. I've heard many times that it could happen quite quickly. Last year, during the current period, I was also promised that it would go to the Council of Ministers rather quickly. You are quite right to say that we are dealing with 25 000 dossiers. Some of them are between EUR 50 000 and EUR 60 000 per file. Let us see that we have to wait two years to get EUR 50 000! I am pleased that you say that you will employ and work together for this purpose. I know the governors have declared their willingness to do so. I ask you one thing: it can happen quite quickly, but I hope that it will happen for the next few weeks. It will be a big deal to pay out another euro this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u35	Mr President, Minister, just after the Greek elections, you said in the news, and I quote you: "The Greeks will have no choice but to continue the clean-up and restructuring". If I understand you correctly, Syriza, the party that won these elections, must not implement the programme on the basis of which he was elected. I can understand your analysis, of course, since that's a bit of what you tend to do at the moment. However, I invite you to reflect on the Greek case. In fact, you are asking the new Greek government to implement the measures imposed on this country by the European Union for six years now, the result of which is a devastating failure. Indeed, Greece has been applying the measures imposed by the Troika for six years. It should be noted that this represents no less than 800 measures per year, hundreds of laws. What is the result? Wages in this country have fallen by 40 per cent, 61 per cent of employees earn less than 1,000 euros per month and the minimum wage is 480 euros. One million pensioners receive less than 500 euros. Unemployment reached 26 per cent, representing 1.3 million unemployed. Only one in ten unemployed people receive an unemployment benefit of 360 euros, which is not huge. Finally, 2.5 million people are below the poverty line. This is for the results of this antisocial policy. At the same time, there are economic results. Competitiveness is an issue you like to talk about, Minister. In terms of competitiveness, Greece has moved from 67th place to 81st place worldwide. The tax burden has increased by 900 per cent and GDP has decreased by 25 per cent. We are facing a crisis as serious as that of the 1930s. Mr Minister, at the next ECOFIN Council, do you intend to call into question this policy which has literally killed Greece and which poses a serious threat to Europe as a whole, including Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u36	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I will therefore repeat the position of the Government with regard to Greece, which corresponds to the position taken unanimously at the Eurogroup of Finance Ministers last Monday, with all due respect for the electoral results in Greece. This position consists of two essential elements. First, in a monetary union, the rules and commitments made must be respected. Secondly, the finance ministers of the Eurogroup are prepared to observe the proposals of the new Greek government in a positive spirit. However, let me remind you of one important point: being a member of a monetary union requires certain rules, regardless of the composition of the government. Without this respect, economic and social life, economic and social development become impossible. These rules concern budgetary discipline, the safeguarding of competitiveness and the health of the banking sector, among others. Whatever the composition of a government, from the moment it joins a monetary union, it is necessary to respect the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u37	Minister, I hear you: we must respect the rules! But that is what Greece has been doing for six years! What's the result? It's catastrophic! And the more she bows to it, the less her debt will decrease. Indeed, the rules you impose on Greece increase the debt instead of reducing it. The Greek government today does not refuse to pay the debt, but asks to renegotiate it and wait for a more opportune time to be able to repay it. With regard to this Greek debt, ask yourself whether it would not be appropriate to conduct an audit on this matter to determine who is responsible for it. Is it the Greek population, as some say a little too easily or are it the big European banks? Personally, I think the second track is to be explored. I invite you, in any case, to work on this exercise of analysis of this debt and the responsibility of the major European banks in Greek debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u38	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago, in November 2014, we had a good debate in the Finance Committee on the financing of local authorities, in particular on the problems encountered by municipalities in paying the additional income tax. The municipalities themselves may levy an additional personal income tax on top of the personal income tax levied by the federal government. However, collection and recovery are carried out by the federal government. In recent years we have noticed that there is a considerable delay in the collection, recovery and collection, which has resulted in a much slower transfer to the municipalities. This leads to budgetary problems and liquidity problems for these local authorities. When this acute problem was raised in November-December 2014 when discussing the advance payments for 2014, you promised that there would be additional advances by the end of 2014 that would give local authorities some relief in terms of liquidity. That's what happened. You kept your word. I have heard from several local authorities that there have indeed been estimates and additional advances, but still less than they would be entitled to in 2014 in terms of recovery and collection. These would also be repayable advances. The possibility would be for these advances to be recovered in the coming weeks, thus reducing the liquidity of the municipalities. However, the problem of advance payments is not the worst problem. There is a more structural problem with the collection, collection and recovery. In this respect too, you promised in November 2014 that you would work on a final solution as soon as possible in 2015. As a result of a debate in the Flemish Parliament this week, I heard that in December 2004 there was a total of EUR 26 million, while in December last year there were some EUR 200 million. This problem has been raised this week in the Flemish Parliament, because the financing of local authorities is very urgent. Minister, what is the state of play in the elaboration of the definitive advance payment system and thus also a definitive solution for the collection, recovery and transfer of funds? Do you think it would be appropriate to consult with the VVSG and the Flemish government and your colleagues in the regional authorities in the coming weeks and perhaps to reach a global tax pact for local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u39	Mrs Smaers, my administration is currently developing a structural advance system for the processing of the additional personal income tax for cities and municipalities in order to make their financial planning and budgetary situation more manageable than hitherto. Such a scheme will, among other things, bring more closely into line with the real fiscal capacity of the latter, the estimates provided periodically by the federal administration on the planned revenue flows to local authorities. By fiscal capacity, I mean the global receipts that each municipality or city can potentially receive annually, taking into account the returns of the personal income tax and considering this, of course, over an assessment year. Since the federal tax administration started accelerating the collection of personal income taxes in the 2007 tax year, local authorities have sometimes collected a lot more revenue in relation to that tax capacity in certain financial years. This has led to the mistaken impression that this tax capacity was actually a lot higher than it actually appears to be. After a few years, however, it is clear that despite all the accelerations, there will inevitably be a return to this real fiscal capacity of the cities and municipalities. The above system should therefore be interpreted in that perspective of fiscal capacity. First of all, revenue flows to the municipalities are expected to be much less dependent on the fluctuations which inevitably occur during the process of collection. This is also important in terms of both the rate of collection and the income mix of the returned taxable persons, which can always be different from one year to the next. Let me give you some more figures on the revenue from these additional municipal taxes on personal income tax. There is a lot of confusion about this at times. For the whole of Belgium, this was 2.89 billion in 2014, compared to 2.7 billion in 2013, i.e. an increase of 7.15 %. For Flanders, this was even an increase of 11%, from 1.58 billion to 1.76 billion. Finally, as soon as the scenarios are ready, which are now being worked on within the administration, I will of course involve all those involved, including the VVSG.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u40	Thank you, Minister. It is clear that you are taking this dossier to heart and are making efforts to improve it for local authorities, both at the end of last year and now in March, when an important deposit of revenue is expected from these local authorities. The rhythm of the incoherence and collapse really needs to be improved and fundamentally addressed. As long as this does not happen, the problem remains of working with advances and additional advances. If this is not tackled in a fundamental way, the problem will be dealt with every year. Thank you for working out this fundamental solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u41	Minister, every good politician is an enthusiastic customer of the catering industry, or should at least be. That is also why we are following the dossier of the catering industry very closely and with suspicion, why we also know that the warnings of the sector are coming true and that a number of problems are now beginning to become critical, not to mention the file of the white register. The day before yesterday, the sector argued in a playful and sharp manner against the government's proposals. In the margins of that demonstration, some of your government partners had a meeting with the representatives of the catering industry. One minister was more enthusiastic about the sector than the other. I have noted in particular that Secretary of State Tommelein stated in the press that he was prepared to make a number of concessions and to take a number of government measures in this respect. I know the sector is demanding a lot. A general reduction in charges may be out of the question. A reduction in VAT on beverages from 21% to 12% may also be too much to ask. As far as flexi-jobs are concerned, we believe that some things were possible. Mr Tommelein undertook to take the necessary initiatives in this respect. Was this policy of announcement or is the government prepared to respond effectively to some of the sector's aspirations, more specifically with regard to flexi-jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the horeca sector has organized a relatively important event in Brussels this week. This is an area that I particularly like. I think we share that feeling. It should be noted that the Horeca sector does not call into question the introduction of the smart cash system, a system decided by Mr. John Crombez under the Di Rupo government during the previous legislature. What the sector is waiting for are measures to amortise the introduction of smart banks, which, I would remind you, are designed to tackle the problems of social fraud. Therefore, Minister, my questions are simple. Will you take these requests into account? What measures do you recommend? Within what financial margin and within what time frame can you act to reassure the sector in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government wants to pursue a policy that encourages and supports enterprise. It is our ambition to create a framework within which entrepreneurs will have every opportunity. The catering industry is an important sector. It's one of the biggest employers in our country. Our country has 50 000 catering shops with some 125 000 staff. They are often SMEs. Our SMEs are the backbone of our economy. The horeca sector has reacted strongly to the cash register, adding this to a series of other situations that the sector has previously faced, such as new provisions and obligations, the ban on smoking and the global economic crisis as well as international competition. The Government Agreement does not provide for the deletion of the cash register or the postponement of the cash register. This is the subject of previous provisions which have been counterbalanced by a series of measures in favour of the sector. The cash register is also intended to clean up the sector of a number of practices, of work in the black, but also to avoid unfair competition from a number of cowboys in the sector. This is obviously not a generality or the most common situation. We therefore hope that the Horeca sector, which is a very labour-intensive sector, will be able to obtain quick answers, particularly as regards the implementation of the elements provided for in the government agreement. Firstly, the current system of inexpensive overtime for the catering business is extended from 180 to 360 inexpensive overtime per year. Second, the occasional work system will increase from 100 days to 200 days per horeca establishment per year. Finally, the flexi-job system will be implemented quickly. The aim is to enable people who already work at 4/5 hours to be engaged in the sector with a maximum of 25% of employer contributions to the ONSS. I would add that the provisions on student work will also be amended so that the calculation of the maximum 50 days allowed to students is now based on an hourly calculation. I would point out that these points are in addition to the points previously decided in favour of Horeca: the reduction of the VAT rate on meals in 2010 from 21 % to 12 %, the reform of casual work in 2013, the increase of the overtime quota. Regardless of this, we wish, together with my colleagues, Elke Sleurs and Bart Tommelein, to respond to a series of practical elements related to the functionality of the caisse, at its cost, and to make progress on social and tax deductions, because the sector really deserves our full attention and additional measures that we will propose to the government in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I confirm that the sector is not only economically important, but also socially important. In our society, there are few places where citizens really come together. Restaurants are one of those places where that happens. That's good for the social fabric of our society. In the past, the catering sector has been hit by government measures of all kinds, i.e. the smoking ban as one of them. I hope we can avoid further blows. You are taking a number of steps in the right direction. I note that Mr Tommelein's commitments have been achieved. I'll draw that up from your statements today. This is now written in black and white in the report of our high assembly. I also hope that you and your colleagues will continue to consult the sector with a view to other measures, which I believe are more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u45	Minister, hearing colleagues from Vlaams Belang talk about living together always makes me smile. Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you, I come from a very touristic region that needs this important part of the economy of Horeca. I hear that some action has been taken. In the past, I was also the first to wear them with your predecessor. That is why I welcome the creation of the 'flexi-job' which seems to me a rather interesting system. Further efforts will be made in conjunction with your government colleagues. Minister, I will be with you to help you implement them, without a doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u46	Mr President, Minister, these are difficult times for the catering industry. On Monday the sector was still on the streets because it is asking for more compensation for the introduction of the white register, as my colleague has just said. Since last week, food controls in the sector have also proved to be a problem. Last Friday, De Standaard published a series of inspection reports from the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, which show that four out of ten restaurants, including star restaurants, are not in order with the regulations in the area of equipment, infrastructure and hygiene. These are often minor problems, such as the absence of thermometers in refrigerators or insufficiently separated waste containers. Minister, we all know very well that food controls are important. The hospitality industry fully agrees with that view. Of course, it is also important that inspection reports are transparent and that consumers can read where they can eat without too much risk. However, Minister, the reports that have been published have been dated for a long time now. Most restaurants have already dealt with their problems. In some cases, even new checks would have been requested, but they never received them. For example, a certain star restaurant from Brussels has been waiting for a new check-up since 2009, which means that it has been waiting for a new check-up for more than five years. In the meantime, it is still not appreciated in the inspection report. In other words, the BFSA controls very strictly, but then it does nothing anymore. Minister, are you aware that publishing outdated information is damaging to catering business, even though they are now in good shape with the regulations? How come the hospitality stores that request a new check didn't get them? Finally, Minister, my most important question is what is the result of the publication of out-of-date information? How is it that there are no recent reports available for many restaurants? Does this have to do with the staff shortage or is there another dysfunction within the BFSA?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Hufkens, I will answer your question by linking it with the articles that have been published recently. Unfortunately, the series of articles recently published on the publication of the audit results does not tell the whole story. The BFSA's theory in the past was that the inspection results are confidential because they have personal data attached to them. A judgment of the Council of State clearly sees that differently. The BFSA has then chosen to work together with all relevant sectoral organisations to develop a system that was clear and user-friendly for consumers, without stigmatising operators. The BFSA has therefore chosen an alternative method for the publication of the results in the business-to-consumer sector, including for the catering industry. This method is based on a scoring system that provides an overall picture of the result in a simple way, just like some guides. The operators concerned were recruited in autumn 2014 to explain the new system, which will enter into force by June. In order to comply fully with the judgment of the Council of State, the BFSA also provided that the reports of the official inspections and the analyses carried out by all operators under its control plan could be requested. For this purpose, the applicant shall submit his or her application via a form on the Agency's website. He is then invited to the central board of the BFSA and can look up the results himself in the database and obtain a copy of them. The second system, which was easier to develop, is already operational. So there is some difference in timing between the two. I have the figures for you on paper, the results of the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u48	Those figures will be handed over on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you are already in the process of publishing these reports and that the catering industry will soon be able to consult them itself. Yet there is something that surprises me and what I think is important. The catering industry itself contributes annually to the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. Fifteen percent of the income of the BFSA consists of levies, of which 26% is determined by the catering industry itself. Now the hospitality industry only gets strict controls, but after that nothing happens. We would like to ask you to follow this up, to ensure that the BFSA better aligns its services to the catering industry and not just to strict controls. The N-VA absolutely does not want to put the catering industry in the cold and hopes to continue to use it in the following months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u50	Colleagues, I congratulate Renate Hufkens on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard of the existence of discussions concerning the imminent abolition of the Walloon and Flemish dorsals as regards high-speed trains. That's what we're seriously worried about. The Walloon dorsal covers 136 000 passengers a year and gives the Liégeois, Namurois, Carolos and Montois the opportunity to reach Paris directly. The occupancy rate for these trains is more than decent, reaching 52% after Mons and 60% on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. There are far fewer users for the Flemish dorsal, according to the figures available to me. These discussions take place at a time when much is being said about the new transport plan and the difficulties it creates for many users. The previous government had foreseen that this transport plan could be reviewed and evaluated as early as the first half of the year. I encourage the government to work on this issue and make changes to address all the criticisms heard. Madam Minister, in the already complicated context of the implementation of the transport plan, are you really going to make the situation even more complicated by removing these TGV lines from the Flemish and Walloon dorsals? Do you confirm the retention of the Flemish and Walloon dorsals as part of the public service obligations contained in the SNCB management contract? Is it true that SNCB is now studying alternatives to these TGVs? If so, what is the content? Do these alternatives guarantee the same offer and speed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u52	Mr President, dear colleague, as you have said, Article 23 of the SNCB management contract provides that, in cooperation with foreign rail carriers, SNCB will serve inland destinations with high-speed trains. The TGV of the Walloon dorsal transports about 100 000 passengers per year and the TGV Brussels-Ostende transports about 40 000 passengers per year. Together, these two axes have a net loss of 7 million per year and the cost coverage rate is, on average, only 22 per cent. As part of the Belgian network equipment plan in ETCS, as recommended by the Buizingen Commission, a first section of the Walloon dorsal will be equipped with operational ETCS equipment in April 2015. It had been planned that the ETCS version of the Thalys trains would also be modified by April 2015, but the latest outlook for this operation under SNCF's leadership indicated a delay of several months. A sufficient stock of suitable Thalys trainsets is unlikely to be available until the end of 2015. In order not to block the general planning of equipment in ETCS of the Belgian network, the commissioning of fixed equipment on the Walloon dorsal between Namur and Charleroi must be maintained. This involves field trials with active ETCS tags in the coming weeks. However, it has recently become apparent that Thalys trains, even with their activated ETCS system, cannot circulate on active ETCS tags. In conclusion, the movement of Thalys trains on the section in question will be impossible for several months from 31 March 2015 until the end of 2015. In the past, due to special maintenance of rolling stock, two non-circulation periods from Thalys on the Walloon dorsal have already been recorded, namely from 17 July to 25 August 2012 and from 12 November to 30 March 2013. In any event, I asked SNCB to propose all possible alternatives of desserts to Paris. My goal is, of course, that customers will be offered an alternative as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u53	Minister, thank you for these answers, which, however, cause me great concern. I know that equipping the Walloon dorsal with security equipment is a priority, but serving users is at least another priority and you have been announcing these two priorities since the beginning of your departmental function. You know that the entire country carries a cultural capital in Hainaut, leading to an increase in traffic between Wallonia and Flanders; you know that we hope to welcome travellers from Lille, Paris and elsewhere. So to say that in March, without a credible alternative... we decrease, we abolish... March, it's tomorrow, it's late January! You are announcing these decreases and deletions for April 1. It is urgent to obtain credible alternatives in terms of transport plan and to meet the needs of Mons, cultural capital, by March 30!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are announcing that you have asked SNCB to put in place, within the next twelve months, a new offer, a specific urban and suburban network in Brussels in rail matters. This seems to me to be an excellent news which is, however, tarnished by your announcement, at the same time, that you do not have the budgetary means to finalize the ER today. You need 500 million euros and this project could again be postponed almost to the Greek calends. We were already talking about the year 2022, 2025. Today, we'd be after 2025. I recall that Didier Reynders, in the election campaign, had promised the RER for 2019, while everyone knew that it was impossible. So today, Minister, there are two announcements that look at each other a little bit and I would ask you to make it clear. You're announcing a new network. What is it? What additional offer will you offer? Is it just Brussels or are commuters going and coming outside Brussels also involved? What would be the additional capacity in terms of commuters? Many Brussels people do not know that Brussels has about 30 stations. They are sometimes poorly maintained, underserved, poorly known. The journeys are sometimes very complicated to go from one corner of Brussels to the other. Will there be any shortcuts or additional trains? Will the stations finally be maintained? Any infrastructure work will be carried out. We know that there is a loop missing in the south of Brussels to have a real Brussels loop. Is that what this is about? You are also announcing tariff simplification. What exactly is the situation? Can you clarify all these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u55	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, I am aware that this suburban offer is long awaited by many travellers, including many workers and customers who wish to travel to Brussels without being stuck in the constant traffic jams. The federal government agreement provides for a suburban offer that needs to be put in place in an accelerated manner, despite delays in these projects, including difficulties in obtaining permits and various remedies. Thus, regardless of the existence of railway lines and the work to bring the main lines to and from Brussels to four lanes and thus to increase the frequency of trains, there are still other elements which must contribute to the added value of specific urban and suburban traffic in the capital. In this context, I have asked SNCB to set up a specific urban and suburban network in Brussels within the next twelve months. The specific nature of this offer will also help to enable highly targeted communication in this respect. Appropriate financial resources will be devoted to this. I do not understand why nothing has been done in this direction by my predecessors. A number of elements are under consideration in order to propose this offer as quickly as possible: information and communication with regard to passengers, quality of rolling stock, tariff integration and ticketing in consultation with other public transport companies, dangling at railway stations, etc. In addition, in the medium term, it is important that the frequency of this offer be increased and integrated into the overall supply of SNCB trains by the next transport plan in 2017. Since taking office, I have been conducting close consultations with SNCB in order to determine the best specific transport offer possible in and around Brussels and the elements that could convince the potential public to make use of this urban and suburban transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, you will not be surprised, that I am disappointed by an answer that gives me no concrete element. You're talking about budgetary means, but in reality, you're missing $500 million today for the RER. Of course, the infrastructure exists, but it needs to be renovated and connected. Additional frequencies must be set up. An additional loop must be created. I do not see how, in twelve months, we can create this railway loop. All I'm asking is to take your word and give you an appointment in twelve months. Nevertheless, I fear that with the concrete elements that you are bringing today, it is again an announcement effect. And you are right – you were also part of this government – there have been a series of announcement effects in this area and you have not been one of the last. Mr Reynders, as I recall, announced the most rocky timing you can imagine in this area: 2019! But all I'm asking is to take your word, Madam Minister. I think it's time to get out of the publicity effects and have a rail offer for Brusselsers and commuters, which is up to the challenges of mobility. See you in twelve months! And I hope it won't be like one of the radio commentators said this morning: "A RER in 12 months for 12 meters!"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u57	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 January 2015, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session:- the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004 on the transposition of Brussels International Airport Company (B.I.A.C.) in a public limited liability company governed by private law and on airport installations, Nos 725/1 to 3; - the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 granting the operating licence of Brussels Airport, Nos 732/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 January 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004 relating to the transformation of Brussels International Airport Company (B.I.A.C.) in private limited liability companies and airport facilities, Nos. 725/1 to 3; - the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 granting the operating licence for Brussels-National Airport, Nos. 732/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u58	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u59	Mr President, I thank the colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for having appointed me rapporteur for this first bill adopted in our committee. I refer to the written report and state that this draft was adopted unanimously. My speech on behalf of the MR will be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, my political group supports this bill, which makes it possible to strengthen the reliability of passports, of the travel documents issued to European citizens and, ultimately, our citizens. Enhancing the security of these documents through biometrics avoids falsification and therefore makes it more difficult for suspicious individuals to move. The purpose of this bill is to combat those who would like to obtain a document under a false identity. Secure data can be used reliably and efficiently in border controls by, for example, the federal police. We therefore plead for the progressive extension of automated checks via passport readers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through this project our political formation stands for a balance between security and privacy requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u60	Mr President, my speech will be very brief. During the debate in committee, I spoke asking many questions about both the form and the substance of this draft. This project is of course technical, but it raises many questions both with regard to the fight against false identity documents and the protection of data and, more broadly, of privacy. All the questions that I asked the minister in committee, having found an answer, my group obviously supported this project. However, one question remained unanswered because it was outside the scope of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In the context of the fight against fraud, the data can be consulted by the police, magistrates or intelligence services. In committee, the minister replied that he did not exclude expanding the scope for consultation of this data in certain criminal investigations, particularly in the event of an attack. However, this issue was more within the purview of the Minister of Justice. I'm sorry he's not here today. Does the government intend to introduce a bill to that effect? Finally, at the rereading of the report, a second question appeared to me. The Minister spoke about the implementation of a pilot project at the Brussels-National airport which provides for the installation of six or seven e-gates, automated controls. If my group is ardently defending the principle of freedom of movement and the legislation that encourages it, then we must not eliminate any human control and replace it with automatic portals. When we know that minors who do not have parental authorisation are able to fly by passing the automatic portals already present for European destinations, I wonder! Would it not therefore be preferable to maintain certain human controls, without using machines that have already shown their faults and thus avoid the departure of minors abroad without their parents' permission? Can an airport take such automatic control measures without consulting the authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u61	Mr President, I would just like to answer Mr Crusnière's question. First of all, the Privacy Commission has given a totally favourable opinion on this bill, without any ambiguity or restriction. While she had made remarks, this was answered in the context of the discussion and drafting of the bill. With regard to the investigations you are talking about, it is clear that this is not a restriction on the place of justice in these investigations. Whatever the subject of the investigation, it remains under the control of a magistrate. It seems to me to be a necessary guarantee for the protection of privacy and simply for the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u62	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (731/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (731/3) The draft law has 30 articles. The bill has 30 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u65	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u67	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u68	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u69	We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 725. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (725/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 725. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (725/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u70	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 732. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (732/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 732. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (732/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u72	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (731/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (731/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u74	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (725/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (725/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (732/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (732/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-29-54-plenair-ip029x.u76	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 5 February 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 5 February 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 February 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 5 February 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
