ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u1	Mr President, Minister, with the sixth state malformation, a division was carried out immediately in the judicial district of BHV. This resulted in the creation of a judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. Unfortunately, this judicial arrondissement is not a fully-fledged judicial arrondissement, but depends in many respects on the judicial arrondissement of Brussels. We had already warned at that time that this would have serious consequences, especially for the administration of justice in Halle-Vilvoorde and for the proper functioning of the structures. The Governor of Flemish Brabant, Mr De Witte, has recently pulled the emergency brake in this connection. He pointed out that the number of burglaries in the Rand is much higher than in the rest of Flanders. The numbers aren't lying about it. He also pointed out that the judicial authorities were unable to deal adequately with this problem because of a number of structural problems facing the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde. In concrete terms, the governor points to a number of specific problems. The federal police department would lack 33 investigators on a total of 97 investigators. There would also be staff shortages in other police departments of the public prosecutor's office. Furthermore, there is no technical investigation of their own; the Brussels services are called upon to do so, but they are not always available. I questioned the Minister of Justice about this, but he referred me to you for the staffing of the federal judicial police, to the local police and, more specifically, to the technical lab. The technical lab would be much less involved in Halle-Vilvoorde than in the other judicial districts. Brussels has already announced that it will not make its lab available to Halle-Vilvoorde as of next year. Hence my next specific questions. Firstly, can you confirm that there are indeed clear staff shortages? Secondly, can you give me an overview of the frameworks and the real occupation of the various services? This may also be written if this requires a lot of figures and tables. Thirdly, are you prepared to remedy this? Have you had any discussions with Minister Geens, as he announced in his reply? Fourthly, what is your response to the governor's statements regarding the crime scene? What will you do about it? As far as the technical lab is concerned, Minister Geens already presented three possible options, suggested by the Attorney General. The first is a full technical and scientific lab for the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. The second is a joint technical and scientific laboratory for the judicial district of Brussels. The third think is a common technical and scientific lab for the entire resort Brussels. Of course, we prefer our own fully-fledged technical and scientific lab for Halle-Vilvoorde. What is your preference, Minister? What timing do you propose to find a solution on this issue? This is a pressing problem at the moment. Finally, how much resources do you provide for a technical lab in Halle-Vilvoorde?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Pas, we are currently working with an organic table 2b, which dates back to the previous period. We are preparing the following organic table 3. I will therefore split my answer into two shutters. As far as the current workforce is concerned, i.e. on the basis of the former organic table, the federal judicial police of Halle-Vilvoorde have been provided with 98 places. Of these 81 have been effectively completed and there is therefore a deficit of 17 people. Of those 98 places, 34 are intended for researchers employed at the airport, to tackle airport-related crime, and 64 for staff working from the site at Asse, to address other phenomena assigned to federal judicial police. There is therefore a deficit of 17% on the current organic occupation. This deficit is partly compensated by 5 seconded investigators and 4 outside staff. The latter are employees employed by the federal judicial police, but for whom no functions are filled in the organic table. I know this is a civil servant. There are 17 staff members too short; 9 jobs we have filled with temporary workers. Here's what's more important. In the light of the optimization of the federal police and the preparation of the new organic table OT3, first and foremost in February the managers were asked to present and defend their personnel needs plan for this year before the management committee of the federal police. By bringing together the proposals of the federal police entities, it was decided to redistribute the available staff within the closed envelope. The total number of effective staff of OT2ter across all police zones and levels remains the same, but is redistributed. The personnel needs plan of the judicial director of the Halle-Vilvoorde Federal Judicial Police refers to the transfer of tasks carried out by the Brussels Federal Judicial Police prior to the reform of the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde judicial district. Those tasks were thus transferred to his management, without a shift of employees at the time. In addition, he argues that the national airport in Zaventem falls within his competence and that therefore the traffic and monitoring of passengers and airport staff require a permanent, specialised deployment of detectives, which means that there is little flexibility within that management to shift investigators. So he says that a large part of the capacity is stuck on Zaventem, which allows little flexibility for the rest. The discussions on those last assignments requiring additional capacity, i.e. on Zaventem, are ongoing. I'll get back to you on that. As far as the new establishment plan OT3 is concerned, I did indeed receive the overall staffing needs plan of the federal police in March of this year with Mr Geens. In the context of the reorientation of the resources of the federal police, it was decided to substantially strengthen the federal judicial police in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, and thus also for the FGP in Halle-Vilvoorde. This global staff needs plan OT3 is now part of the ongoing trade-union consultation. We have a proposal. We are now in consultation with the trade unions. The law prescribes that. Hopefully the plan will come. I can tell you, without mentioning any figures at this stage, that this represents a sensitive expansion of the FGP in Halle-Vilvoorde, both for the FGP and for the CSD. As regards the response to the Governor's signals, the need to develop a fully-fledged judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde, both on the police and on the judicial level, stems from the sixth state reform. The Governor of Flemish Brabant informed me and the Minister of Justice of the problem at the provincial security meeting on 28 November last and by an additional letter dated 19 December. Together we have examined the situation and examined what measures are best taken. A first consultation meeting was held in autumn, on 1 December. This was attended by the Minister of Justice, the Public Prosecutor, representatives of the local and federal police, the governor, a mayor and myself. A follow-up meeting with the same actors will take place in my cabinet at the beginning of June. On 16 March 2015, following a working visit to the federal provincial department of Flemish Brabant, I had the opportunity to discuss this with the governor and the two DirCos of the federal police in the province. In addition, as far as technical investigations are concerned, the necessary short-term and long-term measures are provided for at federal police level to deal with shortages and provide the necessary training and guidance. A comprehensive answer to the lab work was given here in Parliament two weeks ago by myself and by the Minister of Justice to a question from Mrs Van Vaerenbergh. I would like to paraphrase the governor of Flemish Brabant. I quote: 'So there has been a long way to go and there is therefore a need to continue together to promote the further development of the facilities of police, public prosecutors, justice and welfare in Halle-Vilvoorde, for the municipalities and the population in the Rands.' Believe me, all the actors who sit around the table work together in that sense. As far as the three possible options for the technical lab are concerned, we should not hide the fact that we are in a difficult budgetary context. People and resources are lacking to respond fully to this from one day to the next. A phased solution is indicated. I explained this to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and she basically says that Halle-Vilvoorde will have a full lab in 2017. In the meantime, decisions have been taken to be able to go to both Leuven and Brussels. Founding a lab also means training people and finding a suitable location. They don't do that in a fingernip. The political will is certainly there to establish a fully-fledged lab for the judicial arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. Indeed, a number of things overlap with the statements of the Minister of Justice. The transfer to Asse creates a lot of practical problems. For example, staff loses a lot of time in traffic. The shortage of staff is greater than it should be. I am pleased that there will be an increase in staff in Halle-Vilvoorde and that the deficit appears to be smaller than the governor indicated. There is a shortage of 17 staff instead of 33. I do have a question about timing. When can we expect the new organic table? Have you set out a timetable in the next consultation with the trade unions? I know you cannot pin yourself on a date, but we would like to have some idea of that. I am convinced that everyone realises that home invasions and crime there are a very serious problem, remains and even gets worse if these crimes are not dealt with efficiently. I understand that much preparatory work is needed, but the 600 000 inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde have the same right to support and a judicial organisation as similar districts. The sooner this works out, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u4	Drones are a relatively new phenomenon, at least with us in Belgium. I dare say that we are also a little behind in the legislative framework, when we benchmark ourselves with the countries around us and beyond. Although the aircraft themselves have been around for several years, we are mainly the pioneering companies and a number of hobbyists who use drones. Today one can, so to speak, buy a drone for about 1000 euros in the supermarket. There is currently no legal framework governing the use of the devices. Fortunately, the draft law prepared by Minister Galant will soon change that. The bona fide use of drones is not under discussion. I think a drone offers countless possibilities. In this context, there are only opportunities that will benefit the economic and technological development of Belgium. The problem is more common among the malicious users of the drones. The aircraft can become useful tools for criminals and terrorists. They are an additional challenge for our security and order services. The devices are often small and light and move relatively slowly. That makes it difficult to be detected by radar, for example. Once they have been detected, it is of course also an issue to be able to neutralize them, should it prove necessary. In order to better understand the challenges, I would like to put the following questions to you, Minister. Out of curiosity, have there been incidents with drones so far that posed a threat to public order and/or our security? What means does the police have at their disposal to track, track and, if necessary, neutralize the drones? Do you think these resources are sufficient? If so, are there plans to provide the police areas with these resources? If not, what is your approach to matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u5	As far as we know, there have been no incidents so far with drones threatening public order or security. There have been two signs of drones in the vicinity of nuclear power stations: once in Doel and once in Tihange, nicely distributed at Community level. Although they flew near a nuclear power plant, they turned out to be no danger after research. I know that occasional reports of drones being spotted in the country appear in the press, but these devices are always in the recreational atmosphere and are used by hobbyists to take aerial photographs. At central level, in the ANG, the national police database, there are currently no figures. The phenomenon is not yet a real threat. As far as your second and third questions are concerned, I have to admit that there are currently no technical means specifically designed against the malicious use of drones, to detect, track and even neutralize the devices. Contemporary drones are also not powerful enough or sufficiently equipped to pose a great danger. They have little thrust and strength. So there's very little threat at the moment. All security actors, both police and defence, regularly discuss and monitor the issue. We are also looking for accurate solutions at national and international level. After all, what is not a threat today could be tomorrow. The poacher must not lead the ranger. So we're following things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u6	Mr Minister, with that last sentence, you take the words out of my mouth. It is not because, fortunately, nothing has happened yet, that we do not have to arm ourselves or prepare ourselves. I look forward to the plan of action with a lot of curiosity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the fire in Ukraine in the Chernobyl contaminated area, which spread over 400 hectares of forests, is now under control. The radiation rate is monitored regularly and would not exceed the standard. However, this situation has given rise to a wave of panic, not only on the spot but also in Europe. Since the 1986 accident, the surrounding forests have been heavily contaminated with caesium 137. This radioactive element is particularly concentrated in needles and leaves agglomerated on the ground, but wood also contains them. When the forest burns, this radioactivity is suspended in the air and can then travel according to wind and rain. For the Radiation Protection Institute, there will be repercussions in France but without impact on public health. The phenomenon has already been examined by the Institute in previous fires in this area, which are increasingly frequent due to the increased lack of wood maintenance. In 2002, 2008 and 2010, during spectacular fires, there was a level of radiation in French air three times higher than normal. Minister, in France, the rate of radioactivity measured in the air is multiplied by three times during fires in the Chernobyl zone. What does this rate represent in terms of impact on public health? Is this rate alarming? What about the situation in Belgium? What are the risks? What are the figures for the rate of radioactivity observed as a result of this fire? What is the monitoring of such phenomena?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u8	Mr President, my colleague, the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN) has indeed observed an increase in the rate of radioactivity in caesium 137 in the air in France during fires in 2002, 2008 and 2010 in contaminated areas following the Chernobyl accident. The measured rate, however, remains extremely low as it refers to just over one millionth of Bq/m3 of air. This rate is not in common with the Bq/m3 concentration measured in Belgium in May 1986. Such concentrations have no discernable impact on public health. The situation in Belgium is comparable to the situation in France, mainly in view of distance. Air and dust sampling rates, collected and measured by the SCK-CEN and the IRE at the request of the AFCN as part of its territory monitoring program, are still below detection limits. This is also verified for 2002, 2008 and 2010 data. These detection limits range from 4 to 18 microBq/m3 in 2002, from 2.5 to 22 microBq/m3 in 2008 and from 2.2 to 27 microBq/m3 in 2010. These detection limit values are generally higher than those obtained in France by IRSN through its network of very high-flow aerosol sampling stations which enable them to reach lower detection limits up to less than one microBq/m3.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u9	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer. I note that the rates are very low and have little or no impact on the population, which is reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u10	Mrs Temmerman's question will be asked later. At the moment, she is present on another committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 4166 was converted into a written question. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will also come later because she is still on another committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer's 4177 question was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, for twenty years now, the Transit LBAS has been urgently welcoming people with substance abuse problems at all times of the day and night. This centre has a low-threshold policy, which is unique in the Brussels Region given its capacity to accommodate. This centre is accessible to all those who suffer from drug abuse and have difficulties, without administrative conditions and without time limits. In the Brussels context, this is particularly important. Initially, this centre was financed exclusively by the security contracts of the Ministry of the Interior, then the sources of funding have diversified and the Brussels Region also intervenes today. The ASBL Transit is now funded through the Strategic Safety and Prevention Plans (PSSP) and the Brussels Region. These plans need to be renewed regularly and, therefore, these funds are also regularly called into question. The current plan ends in 2017 and the ASBL is therefore concerned for the future. You were a member of this ASBL's board of directors, like your predecessor. You've decided to withdraw. Is it because you don't want to be involved in the actions of the Transit Centre or because you don't want to support this type of intervention anymore? Or are there other reasons? What federal budgets are allocated and planned for Transit in 2015-16 and 2017? How is post-2017 preparation organised between different levels of power and actors on the ground? It is necessary to anticipate these developments in budgetary and operational financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u12	Mrs Gerkens, as regards my representation on the Transit Board of Directors, I have never been a member in my personal capacity. As Minister, I was represented by the Director General of the Security and Prevention Branch. I wanted to put an end to it, believing that I could not be both a judge and a party. Indeed, given the fact that the ASBL Transit receives subsidies through the Strategic Security and Prevention Plan, it is subject to the control of my administration, under my responsibility. The controller was therefore also the controller. So I wanted to put an end to this situation that I thought was uncomfortable. Changes in institutional landscape structures have meant that other actors are better placed to take the lead in operations. My decision should in no way be interpreted as a value judgment on the purpose of the Transit LSA. With regard to the question of the budget, I should like to make it clear that my Department of Internal Affairs does not provide direct funding to the ASBL Transit. It is the Brussels Region and several Brussels towns and municipalities, with which Transit establishes an agreement, which provide direct funding for this structure. The fact is that some of them do so through the subsidies granted under the strategic security and prevention plans, in the name of preventing drug-related offences, offences and crimes. This choice belongs to the Brussels municipalities themselves. The regulations currently governing the strategic safety and prevention plans do not require the municipalities in question to grant part of their subsidies to the ASBL Transit on their own initiative. This to tell you that I cannot therefore answer your question about the budget for Transit for the years 2015 to 2017. Rather, it is appropriate to question the Brussels municipalities with which Transit has concluded a convention. For this same reason, it is difficult for me to answer the question about the preparation of the post-2017 ASBL Transit. It is also up to the subsidising authorities to inform you. On a more general level, however, the government agreement on strategic safety and prevention plans does not provide for their deletion, but rather refers to the conduct of an impact assessment. It will soon be launched under the aegis of my department before the end of the legislature. The results of this evaluation will identify possible adjustments to the regulatory framework for the next cycle of these strategic safety and prevention plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u13	Minister, I thank you for your answer to my question, which was deliberately provocative about your withdrawal from the LSA. Indeed, it seemed to me important to allow you to clarify that this withdrawal was not related to a lack of interest or disapproval of the Transit Centre. I have noted that you do not directly finance the centre but that the funding is provided by the municipalities that receive the grants linked to the prevention and safety plan. The difficulty in fulfilling this kind of mission lies in the continuity and security aspect needed to determine rights and how to operate over time. Indeed, if each municipality, for budgetary reasons, is free to renounce funding, this centre, which fulfils a function for the whole population of the Brussels Region or the people present in the territory, may encounter problems. Since funding is not directly covered by you but by the plan, would it not be interesting for a representative of the federal government to be part of the board of directors or the general meeting? Currently, you do not control your policy or the financial resources. I thought that the confit of interest you mentioned was a result of the direct funding at the centre as you pay the municipalities who have it at their own discretion in the context of security. So you have no control over what you attribute. The Region could perhaps, beyond the municipalities, play this role in the management of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u14	Mr. Demon is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u15	Mr President, Minister, data that can be obtained from the population register is an important source of information. Under the Public Administration Act, public authorities, including local municipal authorities, are obliged to disclose certain dates and administrative documents. Legal persons and schools may also request personal data from the population register from local authorities as part of the public administration. However, it is not always clear to municipal authorities what information they may or may not supply to legal persons, taking into account the privacy provisions. Especially in the case of schools, there is a problem, because according to the Privacy Commission this can only be done in the context of teaching assignments, not to recruit pupils. Minister, what is the legislation in force regarding the provision of data from the population register? What information can be provided to legal persons? Can data from the population register also be provided to schools in order to build up a school base, not just to recruit pupils?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u16	Minister, Mrs Hufkens, for the protection of privacy, the provision of information from the population registers and the register of aliens is subject to strict conditions. Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on the acquisition of information from the population registers and from the alien register provides that a third party may, to be regarded as a natural or legal person, but may obtain data from the population registers in the form of an extract or certificate drawn up on the basis of those registers, provided that a written and signed request and where the issue of those documents has been prescribed or authorised by or by law. Documents the issue of which has been prescribed or authorised by or by law should include documents necessary for the execution or continuation of proceedings provided for by the law, decree or decree, in particular the Civil Code, the Civil Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, or by a decision taken in implementation of the law, decree or decree, where the administration of justice requires the designation of the place of residence of the person to whom it is to be enforced or prosecuted and where the place of residence in this case must be treated as the place of residence in the population registers and the alien register. The application should therefore make explicit reference to the applicable procedure and to the specific legal provision requiring or allowing the issue of the relevant document in the context of this procedure. Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 prohibits the provision of lists of persons to third parties, except to public authorities or public institutions authorised by or under the law to obtain such lists. Article 7 of the same Royal Decree lists four exceptions to the above-mentioned prohibition in principle. For example, lists of persons may be provided, inter alia, on written request and on condition that the use for which they are intended is mentioned, to institutions of Belgian law which carry out tasks of general interest and which do not have access to the National Register. This is accompanied by an explicit statement that the College of Mayors and ships must judge the validity of this application. For your question which personal data may be provided to third parties, please refer to Article 4 of the Royal Decree. It expressly provides that extracts or certificates may not contain any information other than that provided for in Article 3 (1) of the Law of 8 August 1983 regulating the national register of natural persons. This means the so-called legal data of the National Register, including name and first name, date and place of birth, gender, nationality, main residence, civil status and descent. As regards the delivery of lists of persons to schools, I can refer to the letter of 6 January 2014 and to point 127 of the general teachings of 1 July 2010 on the holding of population registers, which deal in detail with this problem. The question of whether a local authority can provide a school with lists of persons depends on the specific purpose for which this information is requested. This objective should be specifically linked to the school's task of general interest. To this end, any person wishing to obtain lists of persons must submit a written application to the College of Mayors and ships, together with the necessary justifications indicating the general interest pursued, the specific purpose for which the information is requested and the need to have the information requested. This objective should also be part of the applicant's statutory or regulatory remit. Thus, when assessing applications, the College of Mayors and Ships should exercise some caution. The mere fact that the institution applying for the list of persons carries out tasks of general interest is not sufficient in itself to deliver to that institution the requested lists of persons. For example, a school's mission is to provide good education as a teaching project. This is a task of general interest for the school. If, as part of its teaching mission, the school needs information from the population registers, e.g. in order to carry out a task entrusted to it by the Department of Education, the school may be provided with lists of persons. This also applies if a school would ask for lists of persons as part of a charitable, cultural or philanthropic purpose it pursues. However, recruiting pupils and positioning on the school market is not one of the core tasks of a school and cannot be regarded as a task of general interest. Consequently, no lists of persons can be provided to a school in order to enable it to enrol pupils of the last year of a primary school or their parents in order to encourage them to enrol in them to begin university studies. In this context, it should also be noted that the use of data from the population register is not the only available means for a school to reach the public. For example, the municipality can opt to list all schools on its territory on the municipal website or in the municipal information sheet, so that parents can contact a school of their choice. Finally, when issuing the list of persons, it should be notified that the list may not be passed on to third parties or may not be used for purposes other than those mentioned in the application. Thus, a school can perfectly obtain such lists as part of some teaching assignment, but should not use the lists for recruitment practices. It goes without saying that the list should be destroyed if it is no longer necessary for the specific purposes for which it was obtained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u17	Minister, your answer is very clear. The local authorities will be very happy about this, because the school holiday is at the door and the new students are coming in. It is a good thing that they are given a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament 4216 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumary's 4221 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandenput's 4249 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u19	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, many dramatic events have again shown this year how the fight for freedom and respect for human rights has become more topical than ever: the right to freedom of expression, freedom to believe or not in what one wants, with respect for the freedom of others, the right to be a woman equal to men, the right to love whoever one wants according to his sexual orientation. I had tabled my question on 6 May and we have just had the Belgian pride, where I point out with positivity that we are, the MR, behind that of the N-VA. Also, I would like to question you about the attacks and depredations of businesses owned by homosexuals the last week of February. In the Dansaert district, in Brussels, on the night of Sunday to Monday, a Molotov cocktail was launched in the window of a florist, on the night of Thursday to Friday, the rampage took place, without theft, except for a pair of scissors, furniture and papers of the hair salon "Ken et Fab". To these acts is added the breakage of the window of a gallery, rue de Flanders. The question is, therefore, what motivated these crimes, no graffiti, no message being left. Minister, since the facts, has the investigation under way led to the identification of the culprits and their motivation to act? Are these acts motivated by jealousy, the recently opened hairdressing salon having seen its reputation increased after offering free hairdressing sessions to the needy and homeless, or are we in the presence of homophobic acts, indicating that in this matter homophobics are still active in our country? Have you known of any other similar facts in Belgium? Can you tell us, how this has evolved since the "Ihsane Jarfi" law, increasing penalties for homophobic crimes? Is the police adequately and effectively trained to receive complaints from victims of homophobic acts, identify and categorize crimes as homophobic? Has a specific code been put in place to make it easier to obtain a body of data to enable studies to be carried out on the profile of offences, their importance, their evolution upwards or downwards? How do you intend to act, on the one hand, to prevent such acts, even though I know that prevention may in part be the responsibility of the Communities and, on the other hand, to ensure that the perpetrators of such offences are prosecuted without fail, even if it also depends on the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u20	Mr Flahaux, my answer is in two parts: first the facts in rue Dansaert in Brussels and then homophobia. As far as the facts in Dansaert Street are concerned, on the basis of my information and without commenting on the ongoing judicial investigations, it appears that the incidents that took place in the district of Dansaert Street in the first quarter of 2015 were, respectively, a matter of personal dispute, an attempted robbery and a burglary. These investigations did not reveal any homophobic character in the head of their authors. However, it is not appropriate to comment further on ongoing investigations, if not by the Prosecutor's Office of the King in Brussels. With regard to homophobia in general, crime related to homophobia and/or violation of other fundamental rights is unacceptable. Several measures are being taken by police areas to respond professionally to acts of a homophobic nature with both perpetrators and victims and/or society. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area has appointed an officer in charge of coordinating the fight against discrimination, whatever their nature. Training for field staff is also organized, particularly in collaboration with the Inter-federal Centre for Equal Opportunities. Police officers are therefore certainly aware of the problem and must act in this way on the ground. Guidelines are disclosed by the judicial authority. With regard to the answers to the questions on penalties for homophobic crime, I refer you to the Minister of Justice. The facts of homophobia are mentioned in the ISLP system, an integrated system of the local police. The police can therefore provide data. With regard to Brussels, 25 incidents of homophobia were reported through this system in 2014. However, I must point out that there is also a dark figure, that is, not in line with reality. In other words, each victim does not file a complaint and therefore does not make a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured about the facts of Rue Dansaert, which is a gay neighborhood as there is in Paris. Attacks and thefts are not motivated by homophobia. I know that I can count on you, Minister, to ensure that the police are both aware, trained and open to the problem of the fight against homophobia. In my opinion, and it is my feminist side that speaks, the feminization of the composition of the police forces helps to improve things. You are quoting 25 facts of homophobia in Brussels. Is this the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u22	Mr Flahaux, these are the six police zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u23	This therefore concerns the entire Brussels-Capital Region. It is, of course, still too much and it shows that there is still work! And as you have rightly said, unsaid is also an important element. In Amsterdam, recruitment was carried out among the homosexual community, with the positive and negative elements that this can represent. It may seem a little ghetto. I believe that the work of awareness-raising and the fight against homophobia that you are carrying out must take place beyond the Brussels police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, you know that Committee P has produced a report on the functioning and effectiveness of the work of the dispatching centres 101. From this report, it appears that the support work of dispatchers for police response teams could be improved on some aspects. If this report, recently published, is based on a field analysis carried out a few years ago, it still seems useful to me to hear you today on the subject. I would therefore like to know the conclusions of your services and the measures that have been taken by the police services to change the internal functioning and working procedures within the framework of the relationship between dispatching and intervention teams on the one hand. More specifically, in view of certain specific points raised in the report, I would like to ask you the following questions. 1. Are the standards for the operation of dispatches identical for all areas of the country? 2. Are continuing training modules at this level planned for 2015? 3. Are protocols and operating processes taught in police schools? 4. Has a recent inventory of the equipment used been completed? 5. Is the level of bilingualism of dispatchers being verified? 6. Is a periodic evaluation of the work of the 101 plants planned? 7. If there have already been evaluations, have there been improvements in response times? 8. Is a process of simplification of internal procedures under consideration or has it already been initiated? 9. Is it envisaged to unload 101 of non-emergency appeals by setting up a separate number?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u25	Mr President, Mr Pivin, so many questions require so many answers. So it's going to take a little time. 1. There is a standard offer for handling police emergency calls to 101. Each province, as well as the Brussels-Capital region, has a 101 provincial call centre. It is called SICA, which means the information and communication service of the district. It is managed by the federal police for the benefit of the integrated police. This centre carries out the entire call taking 101 of the province. Following the call taking, a standard electronic file is transmitted at the competent dispatching level. It is therefore an offer from the federal police to the provinces that currently 75 per cent of all police areas have subscribed to. Some areas have not responded to this offer and have their own call center. Rather, these are the big cities. So the data I'm going to give you is about this 75%. If you want the complete data, I invite you to ask me in writing and they will be sent to you. As far as dispatching is concerned, the government has already had to decide that the choice of how field teams are dispatched belongs to the areas themselves. They either follow the offer of service of the Federal Police and decide that SICA will also take care of dispatching their teams, therefore according to national procedures taught to SICA dispatchers. Either, the zones opt for autonomous dispatching with their own dispatchers and their own internal procedures. Provincial SICAs are required to comply with national standard processes that are determined within a national platform. Areas that have opted for autonomous dispatching follow their own philosophy and rules in organizing their dispatching. At the federal level, we have no information on how this is done for areas operating with autonomous dispatching. In view of the time allotted, I will therefore limit myself to the answers concerning the dispatches provided by the provincial SICAs, as I said earlier. 2. As standard operating standards and processes are provided for in all SICAs in the country, appropriate training for SICA dispatchers from the federal police has been established. The function of SICA dispatcher is also taken up in the Royal Decree on Functional Training and is therefore considered to be a specialized job. A specialized job is linked to obtaining the ad hoc patent following the successful completion of an examination. The Federal School is responsible for the training of SICA dispatcher, comprising a 16-day theoretical part and a minimum of 320 hours. 3. In the case of SICAs, in addition to basic training sessions, continuing training is regularly organised, either on the basis of the needs expressed by some of them or on the basis of initiative to respond to a new need. SICA will soon be using a new version of the call management software. Continued training sessions for the transition to this new version will be organized for all SICA staff. 4. The national standard processes to be followed by SICAs are continuously evaluated by the ad hoc platform. The change to the new version of the software obliges them to review them in the light of any new specificities. 5. At the SICA level, the inventory is permanent. This hardware will have to be replaced soon to be able to host the new version of the software. 6. Apart from Brussels, bilingualism is simply recognized as useful for a SICA dispatcher. It is therefore not mandatory to be bilingual, since a dispatcher is not in direct contact with the public – unlike the call-taker. 7. SICAs are subject to permanent management control. The latter may have to be somewhat adapted, due to the recent optimisation of the federal police, which saw the SICAs go under the responsibility of the SICA's directors-coordinators. At least once a year, a presentation on the monitoring of indicators and established findings is planned for SICA officials. 8. The process approach is stimulated in order to optimize the flow between call-taking, dispatching and field operations conducted by local and federal police response teams. Information systems do not allow us to demonstrate a clear improvement, but know that all the actors concerned are working towards this goal. In the case of SICAs, monitoring and comparison between centres leads to a desire for continuous improvement of service to the population. In this context, good practices are shared. 9. As previously noted, the standard procedures that must comply with the ACIS are revisitable based on findings and proposals for improvement. The goal is always that they are as simple as possible but also as complete as possible. 10. The split of 101 appeals into urgent and non-emergency appeals on the basis of short questions is not a good option, but if a separate new number that the citizen could decide himself to call for information, for example, was foreseen, this could possibly work. A project to this effect is under consideration under the name of the "blue line", on the basis of the Antwerp model, among other things to unload the reception of local police areas. The problem is that such establishment requires additional staff, which is currently not possible given the budgetary situation we are experiencing. Finally, in the current state of the file, directives have not been issued. Given the option chosen in the past, the choice of how field teams are dispatched is left to the areas themselves. Directives at my level will not be issued. However, the areas are, for example through the Standing Committee of the Local Police, normally well aware of the recommendations made by Committee P in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u26	Minister, it's great, you have answered the last question I forgot to ask you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the issue of road safety is, of course, a cross-cutting competence in our country. As I have been able to follow up on these issues in the context of Brussels' regional mobility policy, I have seen that the security of road infrastructure requires responsibility and multiple and varied implications at the level of policy-makers (land-use planning, urban planning, mobility at federal or regional level), all in addition to strictly police work. While I will be questioning the Federal Minister for Mobility in the near future on the same subject, I would also like to ask you a few questions about the work being done by the police in the area of road safety. Recently, the European Commission published the latest comparative figures on road safety in the Member States. While the figures for recent years for fatal cases on our roads continued a positive trend, it appears that the figures for 2014 for the mortality rate on Belgian roads are bad because only one less person died compared to 2013. Belgium is thus in a statistical position among the countries with "dangerous" roads, while our big neighbours are far better placed than we are. 64 people died on our roads in 2014, while the European average is 50 deaths. Of course, prevention measures need to be strengthened, but experience also shows that fear of a fine or photo works just as well. Minister, what are the means used at the federal level to secure our roads, in addition to what is provided for by your colleague in charge of Mobility? Do you think it would be useful for an evaluation of the measures currently in place to be carried out? Were the means changed between 2013 and 2014? What is planned for this year and for the next few years in consideration of the government agreement? Do you have any information on the number of deaths and injuries involving road workers in 2013 and 2014, whether they are perpetrators or victims? Is there sufficient coordination between the Federal Highway Police, the Federal Mobility Services and the relevant federal entities, especially since the last state reform? Finally, in the light of the European statistics I mentioned, could you tell us what European coordination and support are in place with Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u28	I counted six questions! First, I'll give you the general context of road safety for the federal police. The work of the police services, which is true of the Federal Road Police and the police zones, is part of the objectives set by the General States of Road Safety (EGSR). With respect to the Federal Highway Police, these objectives were translated into the Federal Highway Police Strategic Plan for 2010 to 2012 and 2013 to 2016. I quote: "Federal road police will contribute positively to the implementation of the recommendations of the general states of road safety in general and more specifically, to the reduction of the number of killed on Belgian roads to a maximum of 630 in 2015 and 420 in 2020. This strategic objective has been achieved through three operational objectives. The first is that, on an annual basis, the Federal Road Police will conduct an analysis of traffic accidents that have occurred on its priority action area and will follow quarterly developments. The second objective establishes that, in the interests of continuous quality, the federal road police will annually increase the number of checks geared to the priority phenomena underlying the accidents, and in particular: driving under the influence of alcohol or other substances affecting driving ability, excessive or inappropriate speed, accidents involving heavy vehicles, the wearing of seat belts and the use of children's seats, the use of GSM at the wheel, in order to contribute to the objectives of the EGSRs in reducing the number of road victims. For the third objective, in the period 2012-2015, the Federal Highway Police will increase the visible capacity by 10 per cent compared to 2011. This is the general framework. The road traffic action plan is updated annually with new figures, new studies, new good practices and new ambitions by priority accident phenomena. With regard to your first two questions, the road police currently count on its organic table of 1,083 members (88% in the operational framework and 12% CALOGs). The operational members shall in particular ensure road safety and traffic flow. These tasks fall under the mission and specialization of the Federal Highway Police. In 2013, federal road police personnel were actually 1,048 (87 per cent in the operational framework and 13 per cent in CALOGs). All technical means (radar, breath tests, tachograph readers, etc.) are being implemented to combat the five main causes of fatal accidents. We are fully aware of the importance of the application of technology in this context. In addition to the Federal Road Police, the local police services also contribute to the achievement of the objectives, complemented by local objectives aimed at improving road safety and the quality of life at the local level. To this end, police areas must provide a minimum of 8 per cent of their personnel capacity for road traffic. To this end, local and federal police services can count on the support of means available to them through the Road Safety Fund to implement their road traffic action plan. In 2013, police areas received over €98 million for this purpose. In 2014, this amounted to almost 100 million euros. The same fund also proposes, through joint purchases, integrated projects for greater efficiency in the identification and treatment of traffic violations. To this end, an amount of approximately EUR 10 million was made available in 2013. For 2014, it amounted to 17 million. During the 2014 operating year, an amount of EUR 9 million, from the 2009 balance, was also made available to the integrated police. Third, an interim evaluation of the SRGAs is planned for the end of the year. Fourthly, the involvement of road professionals is not specifically mentioned, either in the minutes or in the recording of road accidents. Therefore, it cannot be analysed. Fifth, the Federal Highway Police is actively part of a partnership policy. It is involved in a systematic consultation with the offices of the Ministers responsible for mobility and road safety and the administrations, both at the federal level and at the level of the Communities and the Regions. It is worth noting the good cooperation between the Federal Road Police and bodies such as the Belgian Institute for Road Safety, the Walloon Agency for Road Safety, Vlaamse Stichting Verkeerskunde, the Federal Commission for Road Safety, the Verkeershandhaving working group set up in the Flemish Region, etc. A biannual consultation is held between the Directorate of the Federal Road Police and the Agentschap Wegen en Verkeer of the Flemish Region, on the one hand, and the Public Service of Wallonia-Route, on the other. Contacts with Brussels-Mobility are also very common. The police have been heavily involved in the various working groups established during the implementation phase of the recent State reform. Finally, your last question falls within the competence of the Mobility & Transport FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u29	Minister, thank you. No reply. It's the advantage of asking a lot of questions instead of asking one or two and adding four or five as a replica!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u30	Minister, if the authorization to carry a lethal weapon requires a decision by the Minister of Justice, it is clear that the decision to expand the equipment of police officers also implies a choice to be made by the Minister of the Interior, who is the boss of our police services, as you know. While at present the police officer is equipped with only sprays and handcuffs, while his uniform and his missions expose him to certain threats in the public space as well as the inspectors, I believe it is necessary to hear from you on this subject. This issue has arisen for many years since, again in 2009, the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) had analysed and audited the Chiefs of Corps on the advisability of arming the police officers. The scope of the missions, as well as the budgetary impact of such investments, seemed to have been right at the time in the establishment of an arms enhancement for police officers. In 2010, after this reflection, however, the Permanent Secretary of the CPPL indicated that he would remain open to an initiative by the legislator if he wished to expand the powers of police officers. In mid-January 2015, the issue was logically based on the events that I must not recall here, as well as the threats that have since been faced by all the police services targeted by terrorist actions. It seems that at present the CPPL is again analysing avenues for reform on this subject of police equipment. Finally, and again this morning at the conference of the mayors, working groups on the negotiated management of public space (GNEP) are also looking at the arming of police officers during the maintenance of public order, not to mention the situations of alert level 3 when collective weapons are obviously available for inspectors but also for other security professionals, while the officers must remain in the police stations. Minister, is there an estimate of the financial cost of the technical and psychological training required in the event of a decision to arm the approximately 1,500 officers in the police forces? Is there also an estimate of the financial cost of reinforced weapons equipment for officers, whether it is a firearm, a taser or a sophisticated truncheon? Have you ever taken an initiative in this specific area with your colleague in charge of the Department of Justice? What concrete avenues have already been explored to decide on the most appropriate weaponry for police officers' missions and new skills? When will the analysis in the Standing Committee be carried out? Finally, would the working groups on the negotiated management of public space have already sent you interim conclusions regarding their analyses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u31	Mr President, Mr Pivin, at its last meeting on 12 March 2015, the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) spoke about the arming of police officers. As a result, the CPPL General Assembly does not support the arming of police officers. It is of the view that, if this option were to be made legally possible, the local authority should be given jurisdiction to judge whether it would be appropriate to allow arms. In view of this negative opinion of the CPPL, subject to a legal framework which allows the local authority to judge the advisability of authorizing an armament to police officers, the authority, the Minister of Justice and I can only take a decision taking into account a more in-depth analysis, i.e. legal, operational and risk assessment. This analysis will be requested from the Federal Police in consultation with the local police via the GPI Coordination Committee. The other steps are not yet under way. Indeed, you have just mentioned the number of agents (1,500). Most of these officers are linked to local areas (federal police). That is why we first sought the advice of the local police committee. With this opinion, we can continue and examine how to proceed at a later stage. As regards the financial cost for a service weapon and a baton, VATC for an agent, the service weapon, the Smith & Wesson pistol must be replaced every 20 years, the cost is 338.58 euros. The holster must be changed every five years: 50 euros; the loader: 20 euros; the loader: 7.25 euros; the ammunition: 0.25 euros per unit. Considering the use of 250 cartridges annually, the cost is 62.5 euros, not counting the rental of the shooting stand to do exercises. The telescopic baton costs 67.12 euros and the telescopic baton holder, 18,63 euros. I can provide you with the number of hours of training required, including 20 hours of training and 4 hours of training in accordance with IPM 48. An estimate of the financial cost of the technical and psychological training required in the event of a decision to arm the approximately 1,500 agents has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for this detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 4298 and Question No Mr Demon (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u34	Mr President, Minister, my question has a local Leuven approach. Like many local police forces, the police in Leuven are eagerly using social media, so that the public is very well informed about the city's ups and downs. In addition to its own Twitter and Facebook channel, the police also have Nick the student cop, who manages his own account for communication to the students; moreover, this account is not separate from his private account. Sometimes the information provided by the Leuven police goes very far. On May 6, the police sent a fun tweet into the world, which was quickly taken over by the national media: "Pumba, Mickey Mouse & Robin Hood arrested in Leuven, white rabbit still missing." This tweet was sent in response to a store robbery by some dressed and drunk students. As funny as this tweet was, he was not equally well received by everyone; a number of people thought it was even very unprofessional and found that something like this belonged to the profile of the Leuven student police rather than to the profile of the police themselves. The city of Antwerp recently started a baraemic course in social media for all its staff, including the management of private accounts of police personnel, after a number of misplaced tweets by members of its corps. This course is also mandatory. In addition, the Antwerp police also produced an internal note based on the federal police vision note. Both things fit into a more professional but also safer use of social media by members of the corps. Smaller corps are also moving in the same direction, but there is still a demand from the field for greater uniformity in the use of social media channels, for example with regard to the use of student police accounts and security measures. According to them, the federal police's vision text is a good start, but does not yet provide an answer to everything. What is your view on the use of social media by local police forces? What is your view on the use of social media by the so-called student police? Do you recognise the demand for greater uniformity in the use of social media channels? Will you provide separate, explicit guidelines for the use of social media by police forces in addition to the vision text "Social Media"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u35	Mrs. Hufkens, I am absolutely in favour of the local and federal police using social media to communicate. It is an easy way to inform the people, to contact them and to engage in dialogue. In this way, the police seek greater transparency about their tasks and results, which I can only welcome. Of course, the police must not lose sight of the traditional channels of communication. However, social media is an excellent additional communication channel. It also shows that our police services are involved in their time and are proactive. Some local police zones or specialised federal police services also want to communicate to a specific target audience. That is why the idea of the Leuven student cop is a very good initiative. Internal research within the Leuven police has shown that almost no one used to know the student cop and that, since he was active on social media, almost 70% of students know who he is and what he is doing. He manages to reach a very large number of students with his messages in a short time. Some other police zones have now taken over that initiative, e.g. Geel-Laakdal-Meerhout with the Facebook profile "Student Agent Police Zone "Geel-Laakdal-Meerhout" and the everyone-known zone "HAZODI" with the Facebook profile "Student Police." Antwerp has included in its social media strategy a plan of approach and training, to start with a student agent in the autumn of 2015. The 2011 integrated police vision text describes some general principles in the use of social media by local and federal police. That text invites any local body wishing to start with social media to draw up its own policy paper on its use. The federal police also did so in 2013 through an additional framework note. A certain uniformity is necessary, especially in terms of public recognition, such as the use of the police logo and a uniform designation of the profiles. This uniformity of channels for local police is pursued. However, this is not currently imposed from above. That is the case in the Netherlands, but that is what the structure of the police organisation allows for. The structure of the police in the Netherlands is more ubiquitous and sent from above. In Belgium we now have 192 local police zones and a federal police. I therefore believe it is important that each police area should have its own freedom to deploy these social networks as it deems appropriate and necessary. The web platform www.openpolice.be provides local police guidelines on digital identity and the use of social media by police services. The federal police are also working on a project to better coordinate all social media channels. As far as your third question is concerned, referring to my answer above, I am not currently planning separate explicit directives in this area. However, I encourage all support initiatives in the field of communication and, more specifically, those for the use of social media. This will certainly benefit freedom with uniformity. In concrete terms, I am thinking of the following three initiatives. Recently, a project has been launched within the federal police to optimize federal police communication through social networks. This will be done in several ways: a higher frequency, more interaction with the citizen and with the members of the police, additional channels, more prevention tips. In this way, the federal police want to improve services for citizens and fellow citizens and also to make themselves better known to the general public. The possibilities of social networks are also examined for internal communication. The people working on this project are also in close contact with numerous local police areas active on Twitter or Facebook, and with the Local Police Permanent Commission. Experience is exchanged very regularly and new initiatives are taken. That is the first initiative. I come to the second initiative. The National Police Academy ANPA is working on training on the professional use of social media for all police communication officers. This two-day training, the preparation of which is in the final phase, should be a practical hand-on training with practical tips and practices. In this way, all existing experiences and good practices will be exchanged and smaller corps that do not have their own communication service can also take the step towards the global web. A third initiative comes from the same police academy, which has been organising training for two years to raise awareness among police staff about the opportunities and risks of social media in their private use. This training, which is now being given in many police schools and local police areas, is very successful. It is not intended to impose strict rules on the use of social media. The intention is to make our police officers aware of their online behavior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u36	Minister, I fully agree that social media cannot be thought away today and that this shows that the police are on board with their time. There is also a lot going on to educate and sensitise them. I think the uniformity is appropriate. There are currently too many differences, such as a mix of professional accounts and private accounts, with the student police. There could also be some sensitisation about this. I had one question about the training within the ANPA for the communication staff. Is that compulsory training or is that voluntary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u37	That's an offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u38	We are going to make a change in the order of questions. This is done in consultation with the relevant committee members. We would normally have to deal with Mr Nollet's questions first, but he agrees with the question put by Mr Van Hecke and Mr Schepmans to allow them to speak first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u39	The kids ID is not mandatory, but it is necessary to travel abroad. The card can also be used for other purposes, for example as a library card or when registering at school. It's been valid for three years. When citizens' identity cards expire, they will receive a letter reminding them to apply for a new identity card from the municipality. The procedure for the renewal of the identity card is automatically used by the FPS Home Office three months before the expiry date. This does not happen by default for the kids ID. Some municipalities do it, others don't. Quite a few parents only find that the kids ID has expired when they actually need it, for example shortly before they travel, with all the consequences. They are often forced to set up an urgent procedure. In the worst cases, they can't even leave. Do you think it would be useful to inform parents in advance of the fact that their child's ID is about to expire and that, if desired, they can proceed with the renewal? If so, how do you plan to organise that? Is that a task for the municipalities or for the federal government? At what time would you implement that? If not, why not? Do you have figures on the number of emergency procedures for the renewal of kids IDs and ordinary identity cards and on the total number of renewal applications for both cards in the last three years? What conclusions can we draw from these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u40	The distribution of the electronic identity document for Belgian children under the age of 12, the so-called kids ID, was governed by the Royal Decree of 10 December 1996 concerning the different identity documents for children under the age of 12. This was later amended by royal decrees in October 2006 and October 2013. To date, it has never been a policy option to require an identity document for Belgian children under the age of 12 and to systematically call on the parents of the children to apply for and renew a child ID. Since the introduction of the kids ID in 2006, the department has made the necessary efforts in the spring and autumn of each year, through its cooperation with the municipal authorities, to sensitise parents to apply for their kids ID in time for travel with their children abroad. It is therefore not my intention, as for the ordinary electronic identity card for the Belgians from 12 years of age, to set up an automated and mandatory procedure for the summoning and renewal of a kids' ID. This would also require considerable budgetary and organisational efforts by the department and would entail increased logistical burdens on the municipal authorities. I have the figures here on the number of emergency procedures for kids IDs and electronic identity cards for 12-plussers, and on the total number of newly issued cards for both categories over the past three years, in particular in 2014, 2013 and 2012. I will give you the answer in writing. As far as 2014 is concerned, there were a total of 1.3 million issued identity cards, 360 000 issued kids IDs, 7 300 emergency procedures for issuing an electronic identity card and 5 900 emergency procedures for issuing a kids ID. Relatively, therefore, there were a lot more emergency procedures for kids IDs than for identity cards for twelve-plussers. The figures suggest that the number of kids IDs in emergency procedures is only a small and decreasing percentage of the number of newly issued kids IDs. [[In 2012, it was 6 000, 7 000 in 2013 and 5 900 in 2014.]] We are talking about 1.65 to 2.2 % on an annual basis. This shows that the current system is functioning. It is clear, of course, that the percentage of emergency procedures for compulsory identity cards, for which notification is made, is lower. The emergency procedure is therefore used on an annual basis for about 2% of the total number of kids IDs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u41	Minister, the conclusion I wish to draw is that of the latter. If we look at the figures, we can see that there are relatively more emergency procedures for the kids ID. That is because parents are very late in finding that the kids ID needs to be renewed, and that is because they are not automatically or systematically notified, although some municipalities do. You say that it is not the intention to introduce that systematic warning also for the kids ID because of, among other things, the significant costs. This is, of course, about the policy choices you make in relation to the service you provide to the citizens. If I had known that you would use the costs as an argument, I would have asked you about the annual cost of sending a reminder to adults. It is about four times as many memories for adults as for kids IDs, and then the amount can also be divided by four, so that we know the cost of sending memories for the kids ID. Perhaps that still needs to be considered, because it is not pleasant for families to find at the airport that they do not have a kids ID or that they have to initiate an emergency procedure when they leave abroad. I'd like to ask you to consider that. In any case, a continuation of the sensitisation campaign is certainly important. Sending an alert can also be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, in the context of budgetary control, you and the Prime Minister have recently announced your intention to fulfill the 547 officers assigned to the Special Units of the Federal Police (SSU), which represents an additional commitment of 50 people. Following your visit to the DSU headquarters in Etterbeek, you made two major observations: the lack of equipment and the lack of staff. Minister, following this announcement and your working visit to the DSU headquarters, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Is the recruitment of additional staff under way? What is the budget for this commitment? When will this staff be effective? With regard to the lack of equipment this time, the press indicated that EUR 12.5 million would be spent on the purchase of new equipment. Can you confirm that number? Can you tell us what kind of material this budget refers to? With the purchase of this equipment, can additional missions be carried out? I refer to the possibility of missions that the DSU would not be able to carry out at present. It was also said that €2.5 million would be allocated for the renovation of the buildings housing the special units. Do you have more information about this? Is there a part of the budget for training new staff? What will be the impact in organisational terms? What about a possible change in the distribution of special forces in several locations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u44	Mrs Schepmans, the recruitment of additional staff is not just a promise. It's already happening. Currently, a selection procedure is under way. It concerns 31 jobs with the DSU. In addition, in the very short term, it is envisaged that 17 additional staff will be recruited. Given the legal and regulatory deadlines for recruitment, selection and mobility, 25 people will start training on 1 September 2015. Depending on the duration of their training, they will be operational between February and June 2016. Other jobs will be opened through mobility within the integrated police force. Within the framework of budgetary control, appropriations of the order of EUR 12 million will be allocated to increase the capacity of special units, entities specialising in cybercrime and terrorism. Since the people who will join the special units come from several police horizons via mobility, external recruitment and at different times, it is not possible to quantify exactly this amount for the special units at this time. With regard to your second question, I can confirm that an additional budget of EUR 12.5 million is foreseen for the purchase of the additional equipment. This equipment will first be used to replace old and used equipment and then to purchase new equipment so that we can effectively carry out our tasks in the fight against terrorism, serious crime and organized crime. It goes without saying that the safety and protection of DSU personnel is central and a priority. A large part of the budget will be devoted to armaments: different types of weapons and eyeglasses for protective equipment such as armoured helmets, shields and jackets, equipment for working in a NRBC environment, personal protective clothing and special means to penetrate various objectives. Another part of the budget will be used to purchase technical equipment that is used to carry out the tasks provided for in the Law on Special Research Methods and Other Investigation Methods. I am thinking mainly of various kinds of day/night cameras, recording devices, night vision devices and localization devices. In addition, a large part of the budget will also be used to replace vehicles as well as to purchase additional armoured-type vehicles with a high level of ballistic protection. Finally, an investment in sufficient and efficient information and communication technologies is foreseen. The rapid exchange of information is a critical factor for success in the approach to large-scale incidents. As far as your third question is concerned, thanks to these investments, DSU will be able to carry out its tasks independently and satisfactorily. DSU will therefore no longer have to rely on the support of other foreign units for the loan of such equipment. As far as your fourth question is concerned, this amount is not only dedicated to the renovation of DSU's buildings. It is used to make the most urgent investments in the district, the Witte de Haelen barracks in Etterbeek. In response to your fifth question, in the budget of $12.5 million, the purchase of equipment for new members is planned as well as the costs associated with their training. As far as your sixth question is concerned, at present the management of DSU and a number of DSU services, namely observation, intervention, technical unit and under cover services, are located in Brussels and 4 regional units, POSA, in Ghent, Antwerp, Charleroi and Liège. They are therefore spread over the whole of Belgium. This organisation enables DSU to react quickly and effectively throughout Belgium. At present, there is no question of establishing other regional units.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u45	I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u46	Mr Minister, before you begin, you will remember that during our last committee discussion, you promised me that you would send me immediately the necessary documents to obtain the codes and references. I have asked you twice in plenary session. I still haven't received the documents. I see your co-worker is doing the right thing. But in the future, it would be good if the documents could follow a little faster. At the commission on 22 March, I asked you about the resilience of our oldest power plants to cope with the deliberate or accidental fall of an Airbus A320 like that of the Germanwings which had just crashed in the Alps. Today I would like to broaden my thinking and ask you what is happening to the ability of our plants to cope with the voluntary or accidental fall of larger carriers: Boeing 747 or Airbus 380, as can be seen regularly in Bierset, that is a few kilometers from the Tihange power plant. Such aircraft have a take-off weight that can be around 1,550 tonnes (three to four times more than an A320) and their kerosene capacity can be around 3,500 litres, four times more than the A320. Mr Minister, are the seven Belgian power stations able to withstand a possible shock from an Airbus A380 aircraft that would crash at full speed at one of their hot spots? By nerve points, I mean the tank and the core of the reactor, but also the cooling facilities well needed in case of a problem. Furthermore, can you confirm to me that during the stress tests, B767s were taken into account at a speed of 150m/s, that is, aeroplanes that emit potential energy during a five to ten times less impact than that of an A380 that flies at a speed of 260m/s?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u47	Mr Nollet, the information you are asking for is confidential! As explained in my response of March 22, 2015, the potential consequences of a crash were analyzed in 2011 and 2012 as part of the resistance testing program. The results of this evaluation are reflected in the Electrabel report on man-made events. This report is composed of a public part and a technical part. The public part of the reports for the Doel and Tihange power stations was published on the AFCN website. The technical part has not been made public for safety reasons. This information has been classified as secret, in accordance with the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and clearances, certificates and security notices. Because of their classification, the information you request cannot be disclosed since such a practice would run counter to an obligation of secrecy established by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u48	Minister, I do not see how this data is secret or confidential! I understand that elements of the report are classified as secret because precise locations are located in the power stations or because possible safety deficiencies are identified. But here it is simply a calculation that can be made by international or other experts. Moreover, these data are not unrelated to the ongoing debates in the Committee on the Economy. But you're invited next Tuesday. We'll ask you some questions. In casu, this is simply the application of a calculation. I don't see where the confidential aspect is. Next Tuesday, there may be a closed party in which we can discuss the confidential aspects. I hope that you will not do the same as your colleague who gives us the documents after the debates, but that we can discuss them directly with you. By Tuesday, could you then have this calculation? This is important to see if all the elements are taken into account in the security and safety choices that are being applied. They are planes that regularly fly over the region of Liège, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u49	Mr Minister, at the committee on 22 April, I was already asking you about this. On this occasion, you informed us that not only did the problem of cracks in the Tihange 1 pool persist, but also that such leaks also appeared temporarily in the pools of the Tihange 2 and 3 reactors – which was obviously far from reassured. In my reply, I announced that I would take the time to consider your answer and to come back to it at a later date. After an analysis, I would like to go back to this issue in order to measure the extent of it. Could you tell me, in this context, when the first clues of a leak at the Tihange 1 pool were identified? It was in 2006 that the AFCN reported this leak, but noted that it was not recent. Minister Milquet, who was competent at the time for the matter, declared in 2012 that the pool was losing two litres of water a day. What is the extent of this leak in litres today? Do you have the guarantee to recover all of the liquid leaking from the pool or are there any uncertainties? When were the first signs of a leak in Tihange 2 and 3 pools identified? What are the elements that allow you to say that, for Tihange 2 and 3, these leaks are temporary while, under the pressure of the water column, a leak is persistent and worsens with the erosion of the matter, due to the passage of the water? Are there also leaks in the cooling system for each of the reactors? Are these circuits equipped with a contaminated water recovery system? In addition, in your response, you specified that the flow rate of the water leak depended on the temperature conditions. This element surprises me a little. In fact, does the leakage flow not depend primarily on the pressure of the water column and the position of the cracks relative to the height of the pool? As far as temperature is concerned, I assume that it is relatively stable in this type of environment and that it has very little influence on daily flow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u50	Mr Nollet, the first mention of leak in the metal coating of the deactivation pool dates back to 1985. As a reminder, these are not water leaks outside the facility or into the environment. It is a low flow of borate water in the welds of stainless steel sheet which form the internal coating of the concrete walls of the pool. This water flow is collected between this metal coating and the concrete to be routed to a leak treatment and measurement system. This collection device is an integral part of the initial design of the installation, which therefore covered the possibility of leakage at this level. We do have the guarantee to recover all the water that could flow through this road. It is correct to say that, in general, leakage flows vary with the height of the water column. In the present case, however, the water flow depends on the mechanical stresses to which the metal coating is subjected under the weight of the loads placed in the pool and is also dependent on the thermal expansions. For this last point, the water temperature of the pool can vary by a few degrees during special operations such as the discharge of the heart. At the time of the most recent measurement, in May 2015, leakage rates were 0.25 litres per hour. By comparison, the pool in question contains 1.5 million litres of water. In Tihange 2 and 3, these leaks are located in pool compartments that are used only for spent fuel transfers. Furthermore, these leaks are located close to the surface so that the leaks that can be observed are temporary and limited. In the design of power plants, specific arrangements have been made to detect, collect and treat any leaks that may occur in hydraulic circuits. In addition, regular checks are carried out to ensure that these circuits do not show any degradation that could lead to leakage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u51	Mr President, I will analyse the answer in depth. Minister, you mentioned 1985. This means that these leaks have existed for 30 years and that we may begin to identify the exact location. In my previous question, you told me about a tarpaulin that was going to be installed by the end of 2015. You're telling me it's recovered, it'll be all that's missing! It's still challenging. Leaks have been going on for 30 years, but it's just a nuclear power plant! If it were a henhouse, we'd look at it differently!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u52	Besides, you talked about a quarter of a litre an hour. I am not mistaken, then, in saying that, over twenty-four hours, it is six litres, which is more than the two litres that Minister Milquet referred to at the time. As the pressure is continuous, these cracks are increasing. Six liters a day, it's not annoyance! For the rest, I prefer to take the time to analyze your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u53	Mr Minister, ONDRAF felt it necessary to go through a press conference to communicate its concern about the situation of the temporary storage facilities for nuclear waste. It's the ONDRAF, the official institution, it's not Greenpeace. These buildings are almost completely filled while many waste will still accumulate until 2025, all the more so with the measures your colleague is considering. We'll see if she can get her law passed. For the time being, it's still wailing a lot. We have a committee called in tomorrow morning as a matter of urgency. ONDRAF submitted an application for nuclear authorisation to AFCN in January 2013 and still does not appear to have received this authorisation. As you have the tutelage of the Federal Agency, I ask you the question: do you confirm this situation? Do you have any specific information about this? What is the work schedule? What are the steps to be taken? Moreover, such a facility must not only be safe and reliable, but must also be supported by the public. What do you intend to do about this and when exactly to involve the local population concerned and, above all, to verify, before the final decision, that the project has broad public support? Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you what is the status of the national programme for the management of nuclear waste streams which the Belgian government is to transmit to the European Commission before 23 August 2015. What are the steps already taken? What are the steps still to be taken and on what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we could indeed be faced with a lack of storage capacity at Belgoprocess. This situation is further reinforced by the problem of drums with the formation of gelatinous substances. The ONDRAF must quickly undertake the construction of additional storage infrastructure and submit the necessary applications for authorisation. ONDRAF did indeed submit an application to AFCN on 31 January 2013 for authorisation for the construction and operation of a surface storage facility for low- and medium-level waste with a short-lived life. After an initial rapid analysis of the large application file, the PSAN declared this application incomplete on June 15, 2013, specifying the twelve important points on which this application was to be completed. So far, the ONDRAF has finalized or almost completed three of these twelve points. The remaining points still need to be addressed. In addition, between November 2013 and July 2014, AFCN forwarded to ONDRAF a total of approximately 300 questions based on an in-depth analysis. By answering these questions, ONDRAF can complete its application and make it consistent. To date, AFCN has received an answer to almost 200 of these 300 questions. The AFCN has yet to receive an initial version of the response from ONDRAF for the 100 and some remaining questions. ONDRAF has planned to provide a response to all important issues by the end of June 2015. If ONDRAF complies with this schedule, it must be possible to complete its application file by the end of 2015 or the beginning of 2016. Once the file is complete, the AFCN may submit it for advice to the Scientific Council on Ionizing Radiation. If this schedule is met, the dossier can be transferred to the Scientific Council in the first half of 2016. Once the Scientific Council has given a preliminary interim opinion, the AFCN will forward this opinion and the file to the commune of Dessel and to all neighbouring municipalities within a radius of five kilometres around the future installation, with a view to organising a public inquiry. The dossier will also be sent to the province of Antwerp and to the European Commission. Once AFCN has received the opinions of the various municipalities, the province of Antwerp and the European Commission, the dossier will be submitted to the Scientific Council for a second time. The latter will then issue a final opinion, which will include a proposal for conditions of authorisation. AFCN will then prepare a draft royal decree establishing the authorization for creation and operation and submit it to the Minister of Security and Interior. It is not the responsibility of the agencies that I, in my capacity as Minister of Security and the Interior, have to ensure that the local population supports the surface storage project. This task was entrusted to ONDRAF. I refer to the decisions made by the federal government on January 16, 1998 and June 23, 2006. If you want to know how ONDRAF has implemented this task, you must address my fellow ministers who have Economic Affairs and Energy in their responsibilities. The safety of such a facility is, of course, an important element for public support. At this level, the AFCN takes on and controls its responsibilities. With respect to your question about the national program, I am in a position to announce that under the Act of 3 June 2014, this program is the responsibility of the CPN/NCC chaired by the SPF Economy. For an answer to this question, I refer you to my colleague minister who is responsible for this program.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u55	Minister, this is a bit of a hallucinating situation! There is a lack of capacity. You confirm it. The emergency is here. We agree. These are the terms you use in the first part of your answer. In January 2013, the file was filed. At the moment, we are still in a game of questions and answers. Points have to be finalized since June 15, 2013, the date of the Federal Agency's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u56	Mr. Nollet, the safety of people is not a game.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u57	Minister, this is an image! It's like a ping-pong game in which everyone refers the ball. This is not a game, we agree. You are right to insist on this waste, especially the drums that are a problem. The evolution of some of them is not very reassuring. I denounce the ping-pong game between ONDRAF and AFCN. He's a problem. At the press conference on 30 April 2015, ONDRAF said it is awaiting the green light of the Federal Agency. However, you say, and I am quite inclined to believe you, that the Federal Agency is still waiting for the completion of 9 out of 12 points and the answers to 100 out of 300 questions. The file is therefore referred to ONDRAF. It is obvious that I am going to ask your colleague from Energy. I would allow myself to be complete in my questions, even though I thought that these two last dimensions were more relevant to your colleague, to make sure that she could not say that I should have asked them to you. I have your answer, so I can ask him about the other two elements. But admit that this ping-pong is not good and is not healthy. I don't understand, and you don't understand, why ONDRAF did a press conference to worry about that. If there had not been a press conference, but a work between the two institutions, ONDRAF and AFCN, with a normal exchange of questions and answers, etc. But here, there's a kind of emphasis, the ONDRAF hit with a fist on the table. You say it's their fault because they haven't made enough progress yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u58	Mr Nollet, to be serious: I am not talking about ping-pong. Those are your words. I'm not responsible for the ONDRAF press conference. But it's not a ping-pong game. They introduce a file, the AFCN asks 300 questions. The current status of the file is that they have answered almost 200 of these questions. It's not about ping-pong. That's right: a file is received, questions are asked and ONDRAF needs some time to answer it, but it's not ping-pong. This is serious work on a serious subject. I do not want to call this a ping-pong game in this committee. Like you, I don't understand their position at the press conference, it's their responsibility. This is an important file, questions have been asked and two thirds of the answers have already been received. Work continues. But for me, it's not a game.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u59	Minister, I appreciate the fact that we are continuing the dialogue. This distinguishes you very strongly from your energy colleague, with whom I only have non-dialogues. I appreciate that and I'm going to go a step further by removing the word "ping-pong". I have no problem with that. I remove the word "ping-pong". We agree on the only remaining element, namely that this press conference is calling on us. Not to mention the ping-pong game, it is nevertheless true that this press conference is calling on us. For the rest, I hope the work continues, as you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u60	Mr.President, Minister, following the incident that occurred on May 4, 2015, Tihange 1 unit produced only 50% of its capacity. This decrease was the result of a switch-off at the Elia High Voltage Station in Gramme. The subsequent opening of the valve caused significant noise and vapor release. Fortunately, there has been no impact on staff, residents and the environment. It appears that this time the local authorities, the police and the firefighters were directly warned. We remember the other episodes. Minister, what are the causes of this incident? What steps have been taken to avoid such incidents in the future? What lessons do you learn from this incident with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Nollet, on May 4, 2015, Electrabel conducted tests of the pump speed sensors of the primary circuit of Unit 1 of the Tihange nuclear power plant. During these tests, the speed measurement signal was lost due to a cable connection error. This resulted in the activation of a turbogroup islet signal, a non-nuclear part of the power plant, and the activation of the circuit breaker at the high voltage Elia station at Gramme. Since the power grid was no longer able to absorb the power generated by the power plant, the power of the reactor was automatically stabilized at 50%. It was therefore necessary for the value produced to bypass the turbogroup. This operation is carried out by means of an atmospheric discharge valve provided for this purpose, which is also located in a non-nuclear zone. The opening of this valve resulted in a plume of water vapour accompanied by a significant noise. This event was classified at level 0 of the INES scale, as all safety functions remained available during the event. In addition, it occurred in the non-nuclear area of the plant. No specific measures have therefore been taken and no lessons can be learned from this event, which has not represented any danger and has no impact on the population, workers or the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. Can you tell me how long it's been at 50%? One day, two days? Not even one day? How long have they been able to restart full production? But perhaps you are not in a position to answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u63	That is indeed the case. I don't have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u64	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday, April 12, the procedures were not followed when rinsing a sludge settling pit at the Tihange 3 nuclear power plant. Rinsing water was released through a channel other than the single discharge manifold intended for this purpose. Before the release was carried out, it was normally necessary to ensure the availability of a radioactive detection chain on that channel, failing which the release would not have been allowed. In the present case, however, rejection was allowed without the availability of this detection chain being verified. This operation was therefore contrary to the technical specifications. We have since learned that analyses of the samples before and during discharge to the pit were fortunately below the release authorization limits. However, we want to understand how the incident took place and why it took place. It seems that it was a succession of human errors that led to this incident. If this is the case, the situation is particularly challenging, as this would mean that double (or multiple) protections are not enough and failure chains occur despite them. I would therefore like you to tell us more about this sequence in the specific case of the 12 April incident in order to fully understand how many protection barriers have been crossed in the wake of each other. As usual, I would also like to know what measures have been put in place to ensure that such incidents do not happen again, and what lessons have been learned from this new incident, as well as from you, as a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u65	Mr President, we are trying to work digitally, but the Internet is still not working properly. Perhaps you could pass it on to the President of the Chamber. Fortunately, we still have a good paper backup with us. One day, I wouldn't want to do that. I'm asking you to help me with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u66	You're not alone. The Conference of Presidents decided to work as paperless as possible. A number of investments may be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u67	Mr Nollet, in response to your question, I would like to clarify again the circumstances of this incident. This is a low-radioactive discharge of water, which has taken place without the chain of discharge measurements being available. This event was classified at level 1 on the INES scale, not from the point of view of the actual impact of this incident on the environment, but from a problem of procedural and organisational non-compliance. The chain of measures is the last part of a set to control low-level radioactive discharges into the Meuse. In fact, any such request for discharge is accompanied by an application for authorisation based on prior measurements of the radioactivity of the water. Regular measurements are also carried out in the pit collecting these waters. However, when an effective release to the Meuse is made, it is requested to measure the liquid to be released one last time. At the time of this incident, the measuring device was unavailable. However, authorisation was granted. The person submitting the authorization believed that the request for availability verification would be made prior to the rejection, and the person receiving the authorization assumed that the availability had been verified. The AFCN shares your concerns about the lack of rigour in the application of the procedures that appears here, which justifies the classification at level 1 on the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u68	Minister, we are not dealing with an innocuous incident. It is understood that this is a human error: one believes that the other did what he had to do and vice versa. In fact, neither of them did. The water was discharged into the Meuse. In this situation, minister, what lesson is learned for the future? Have any corrections been put in place? You gave me a very precise description of the incident. But I don't see what lesson we learned. Have new procedures been initiated? Were these people invited to resume training? I'm improvising. It's no use. It's up to you to tell me...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u69	Staff attitude is the most difficult aspect. It is easier to remedy a technical problem. We will reinvigorate training to draw people's attention to this issue. We have taken initiatives in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u70	Minister, I agree with you. The human factor is sometimes – not always – less easily understood than the technical aspects. However, the human factor is inevitably part of the operation of nuclear power plants. However, we note that, despite all the procedures and training that can be developed, failures can occur. Fortunately, in this case, this has not led to any consequences. It is therefore necessary to include this parameter when discussing the future and the energy choices that we need to form. I will come back to this in a more general way since we will see each other on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u71	Mr.President, Minister, Doel 4 was sabotaged on the 5th of August, 2014. Almost ten months have passed since then and we still do not officially know anything about the author and his intentions. That's not reassuring. At most we know that it must be someone who worked at the plant, which is no more reassuring, on the contrary. It was the press that informed us on 13 May that, as part of the investigation, twelve Electrabel workers should have submitted themselves to the lie detector. But the press reports above all that eight of them refused to take this test. Needless to say, this is not reassuring either! Minister, do you confirm this information? What are the reasons why workers refuse these tests? What are the tasks and assignments of these workers in the company at present? What do you think about this situation and the fact that apart from this information, we still know nothing about the perpetrator of the sabotage act?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u72	Mr Nollet, the judicial investigation has not yet been completed and the elements covered by it therefore remain subject to the secrecy of the investigation. I do not have to comment on the course of the investigation or on the place of the workers concerned. It is the responsibility of the operator Electrabel to provide a suitable solution for its workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u73	Minister, it's a little short. I understand that there is a secret of investigation, but my question contains elements that a minister must be able to answer. Is it true that some people have refused to undergo the detection test? The information has been published in the press and, as parliamentarians, we must be able to check it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u74	Judicial matters do not fall within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u75	I will consider questioning the Minister of Justice and thinking about the issue in order to find out what I can do about it. Indeed, it is a matter of concern that, after a little more than ten months, nothing is still known about the author, his motives, or the facts. We don't know who he is and we don't know what he's still doing. But the power plant was re-launched as if everything was okay. Maybe I'll go to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u76	At the feast of Pentecost, inspirations return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u77	For you, I have no doubt. But if it can also help your colleague. The humorous touch will be in our report, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u78	Mrs Matz, your question No 4333 on the establishment of multidisciplinary investigation teams will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u79	Minister, indeed, the first question is intimately linked to it. It's the result of the chance of the calendar. Still, the other one has been sent back to the Justice Committee and this one to you. I don't understand the meaning. I have already had a partial answer, but I would like to have your opinion on that question. In your policy note, you advanced what had already been organised by your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, a reorientation of operational capacities at the judicial level, allowing, in particular, a strengthening of the decentralized services concerned in the fight against economic and financial crime, as well as in the fight against cybercrime. However, you said in the same note that this reorganisation from the central to the deconcentrated level would not affect the capacity of services to combat economic and financial crime, as well as cybercrime. The Minister of Justice has just answered the question of setting up joint multidisciplinary investigation teams (MOTEM). He made it clear that these MOTEMs would include the staff of the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OCDEFO). The minister told us that these services would be deconcentrated at the borough level. You have to understand my point. If, indeed, the strengthening of the boroughs through these indispensable multidisciplinary teams is necessary, I think, along with others, that it should not be done at the expense of the central level. You know, as I do, that this central level is an important point of contact, particularly in international matters. This type of survey is rarely limited to the level of a borough, rarely at the national level but most often at the international level. In this case, there is a need for a single, central focal point at the operational level. I think you're going to say, "You know, there's still a point of contact." The impression is more that it is administrative, some kind of mailboxes that will remain at the federal level, but that operational capacity will simply be de-concentrated in the boroughs. This project, at the time, had already been submitted to Joëlle Milquet by the police itself. In the law and in a royal decree, it had already made it very clear that operational capacity remained at the central level for financial crime and economic crime as well as for the fight against cybercrime, which your government has made a priority. We were glad to hear that. If you want to make a priority in the fight against financial and economic crime and the fight against cybercrime, you cannot move on to decentralization. A draft royal decree was submitted to your colleague from Justice. He was very clear in his answer earlier. I thought he was still in consultation with his house and that he would say he was thinking about it. He said that OECDFO would be deconcentrated at the district level. I wonder about the real effectiveness of this deconcentration, even if I do not deny the fact that boroughs need to be strengthened. You have also announced a whole series of reinforcements of the teams. He was praised in relation to the needs that exist. But we will have an imbalance. How do you want a borough-level survey to have a global vision? What point of contact can our federal departments, Finance Inspectorate and Social Inspection, have at the borough level if there is no operational capacity at the central level? I would have wished to know whether, in fact, this royal decree was planned, whether the government's tendency, and yours in particular, was to consider this to be logical. I would also like to ask you about the number of people. OECDFO has about 30 to 40 people, and the FCCU has about 60. How many people will actually be decentralized in the boroughs? How do you intend to respond to a request for international support? OECDFO has been a model that has itself trained other police forces abroad through its expertise, its highly specialized expertise. How will you organise this international contact point? Are you still thinking or is this option taken permanently? If this is the last case, we all very much regret this choice. Not later than noon, a judge invited on a RTBF plateau addressed this point, in the middle of a whole series of other issues related to justice, regretting that this was being planned. The College of Attorneys General has received an opinion on this order. I'd like to hear your opinion on this case. It's a pretty damaging mistake if you confirm that this royal decree is being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u80	I would like to mention two movements in progress. First, certain measures are being taken in the context of the implementation of the optimisation of the Federal Police to make its operation more effective. The second movement is the decisions of this government. Article 105, paragraph 11, of the Integrated Police Act currently stipulates that, in the field of organised economic and financial crime of tax and social fraud and ICT crime, research units are set up within the deconcentrated judicial directorates of Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi, Mons, East Flanders and Liège, which are responsible for specialized investigations. In all transparency, these central units, which do not exist at the deconcentrated level, will initially reduce their investigative capacity to deconcentrate fully this investigative capacity for the benefit of the judicial directorates of boroughs. I will come back to why in my answer to the following question. I would like to put this reduction in perspective and point out that this government has provided, under budgetary control, appropriations of the order of 12 million in order to increase the capacity of entities specializing in cybercrime and terrorism and the capacity of special units of 10.5 million in staff appropriations accompanied by 1.7 million in operating appropriations. A reinforcement is planned not only for the RCCU deconcentrated units but also for the FCCUs, taking into account their reorientated missions. I'll be right back. To answer your second question, the decision to deconcentrate the investigative capacity of the FCCU and the OECDFO (43 FTEs) is mainly based on the following considerations: on the one hand, deconcentrate what can be and maintain at central level what must be, on the other hand, simplify the structures, either avoid duplication and thus exclude competition between central services and deconcentrated directorates. These considerations must be integrated into a broader vision in order to strengthen the operationality of the federal police, aim for a better police function, better service and support, seek harmonization with judicial district reform and seek a more effective and efficient organization. In response to your third question, I can tell you that the central level is responsible for providing support at the request of all integrated police services. In principle, fact-finding missions are assigned to the deconcentrated judicial directorates. The investigative capacity must be where the King's prosecutors are competent. Control, research & development, coordination, support, training and the single point of contact synthetically characterize the role of the central level. By working in this way, competition between the different levels is excluded. The service of the OECDFO ceases to exist and is entirely deconcentrated towards the level of the boroughs. With respect to capacity, there are currently thirty-two persons in the FCCU. By the end of the year, six people are sure to leave the FCCU, which will reduce its capacity to 26 members at the beginning of 2016. In the new staff training, organizational table III (TO III), agreed upon and validated by the Minister of Justice and myself, a capacity of forty-four members has been provided for the FCCU, which in practice implies a shift in tasks and operation as soon as the TO III comes into force. Thus, the FCCU central office will no longer conduct specialized investigations in the field of cybercrime, but will strengthen its operational technical assistance to the RCCUs in this type of case. The role of the FCCU will focus on supporting RCCUs in intelligence and research & development. In addition, an increase of EUR 12 million in terms of staff and operations is foreseen for both the RCCU deconcentrated units and the FCCU. International support and the sustainability of credibility must be seen in a broader context. Of course, the federal police, and in particular the DGJ, will continue to meet their commitments. That is why the central level will play its role as an international point of contact and will ensure that the support to be provided is coordinated by consolidating within the judicial pillar the appropriate means which will be found in a central service or deconcentrated direction. There is no rule that the proposed solution also combines resources from the entire federal police force and even from the integrated police force. I visited these federal and regional units. I can compare what I saw with what I saw for the DSU. This is a lack of resources and a lack of procurement methods. The situation in which these people have to do their jobs is really unacceptable to our safety. I think you need to think about what was done in the previous Parliament at the DSU, the Computer Crime Unit and in the counter-terrorism groups. We are going to inject several tens of millions of euros this year and the same effort will be made next year. We can still talk about organization, but what I saw there has nothing to do with an organization. There is a lack of adequate resources for these elite units. Sending such persons under dangerous conditions and without sufficient means is unacceptable. I therefore took responsibility for solving these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u81	Minister, we can return every argument as we wish. That's what you just did. I would remind you, however, that on page 7 of your policy note, you were reorienting judicial capacity at the central level for the benefit of deconcentrated judicial services in the boroughs, excluding capacity to fight corruption, serious forms of economic and financial crime, ICT crime and the search for fugitives. It was very clear. That was one of the commitments you made. As I told you, the reinforcement goes in the right direction. Joëlle Milquet has undertaken an optimisation of the Federal Police which is in line with capacity building at the district level but not to the detriment of these two services, particularly in financial crime, which also need a certain independence from the boroughs. We know that the closer the level is, the less independence is there. You are grappling with the lack of resources that you denounce and we support you in the desire to strengthen the resources for these highly specialized services. Nevertheless, I do not find any argument of consistency in your remarks. You say that a hundred people work for these two services, carry out investigations at the operational level and, at some point, go beyond the character of a borough. It seems to me quite logical that they take their hand at that time and that they can be the international point of support in the investigation. In my view, coherence can be in both directions and in both arguments. Minister, I continue to regret this decision, which is now a noise but which seems to be confirmed. It is contrary to your general policy note, in which you have made a clear commitment. This is regrettable because this has already been the subject of many discussions in the past. If you take a royal decree now, it is contrary to the law. It is contrary to the law, which provides very clearly that there is an operational capability that is kept at the level of the OECDFO and the judicial police. It will be contrary to the law and to the other royal decree implementing this law. I would just like to warn you that at this level, there may be some problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 4400 will be converted into a written question. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu would be coming for her question No. 4402. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demeyer converted 4403 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (S). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u83	Mr Minister, in my question on number plates I would like to mention two aspects: firstly, the route control and, secondly, the ill-readable number plates. Trajectory control is a successful system. The number of speeding tickets is going up. Flanders wants to expand that system. Our party is a real believer in that too. We note, however, that there are two problems. According to federal police sources, some license plates can't be read, especially the personalized number plates. Since the beginning of last year, a new system has been introduced, whereby a personalised number plate should no longer start with a 9. Since then, all kinds of combinations can be requested. That's good for the treasury, because that's gonna pay off, but according to the rumors I hear from the federal police, some of those plates aren't readable. It seems that the problem of unreadable number plates also arises for certain motorcycles. If that is true, then that means a safe passage for those involved to drive too fast and to escape the controls. Is that right? There is another problem. At some point we read in the newspaper that the route control system was shut down because too much flashing is happening. It's like the police would say that too many criminals are being arrested and that she would stop arresting for a while, because she can't take it anymore. I would therefore like to propose that the whole system be organized in such a way that its handling is automated, from a to z, from the moment the photograph is taken to the moment the fine falls into the bus. Allow me to give you an example. In our city we work with a small parking company, of course not comparable in size to the federal police. If a picture is taken in our city of a license plate of a car parked wrongly, then no manual action will be taken. The car owner gets a fee of 25 euros in the bus. In other words, our people never stop. There are complaints about too many checks. However, the handling of these controls is never a problem. Can you organize a similar system, so that no manual action is needed in that first phase, between taking the photo and depositing the fine on the bus? I am not referring to the subsequent phases, to the parquet and so on, I am just talking about the first phase. A second aspect concerns the problem of the ill-readable number plates. In this context, more and more minutes are being written out. The previous government has doubled the penalty rates for this and a judge can also withdraw the licence. Minister, do you see an increasing trend in unreadable number plates in 2014 and early 2015? Do you see a difference between motorcyclists and drivers? Do you see a rising trend in 2014 and early 2015 regarding flash fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u84	Mr Van Quickenborne, on 31 March 2015, the new rules for the personalised registration plates entered into force. The obligation to start with the figure 9 was abolished. New combinations of numbers and letters became possible. The number of characters that can be used increased to 8 characters. The new Royal Decree, which allows for all possible combinations, came into being without taking into account the technological means of detection that are commonly used for road safety and the fight against crime. Such registration plates are difficult to read for an automatic camera, such as an ANPR camera, which operates via a so-called blacklist. In particular, these combinations consist of a limited number of digits or letters. The determinations are software-dependent and can give sporadic problems when the license plates with less than three characters are allowed. Ministers and MEPs ride with it. A lot of other combinations can also be done. The police are now studying with the suppliers of ANPR devices whether it is possible to solve the problem by making adjustments to the user software. However, the police is in favour of some modification of the Royal Decree of 7 April 2014 and the Ministerial Decree of 28 March 2014 on vehicle registration, in order to avoid the non-readableity of number plates due to all kinds of frivolous signs, so that automatic recognition via ANPR is possible. It is my firm belief that we should focus on ANPR, that we should focus wherever possible on route control and that we should subordinate the frivolity of the number plates to the efficiency and impact of our ANPR camera network. For this reason, we must re-evaluate the royal decree in question and see whether a software solution is conceivable. If you can do that, it's so much better. However, if such a solution is to take years to come, we must adapt a sleeve to it. The Federal Road Police cannot comment on the evolution of the number of unreadable registration plates on the basis of the findings of speeding violations by means of its devices. Because we can't read them, we can't register them either. Consequently, a distinction between motorcyclists and drivers is not yet possible. The number of speed breaches in 2014 is 5% higher than in 2013. The number of infringements detected through the route control is 15% lower in 2014 than in 2013. In 2014, more violations were detected through mobile radar controls and semi-mobile radar controls, respectively 19% and 39% more. The figures for the first semester of 2015 are not yet available, as the semester is still running. Fourthly, the three regional processing centres of the federal police are currently responsible for processing the records of the route checks and the fixed cameras on the motorways. In addition, regional traffic centres are also responsible for the processing of the fixed cameras of 17 police zones and are still 23 areas requesting entry. The aim is to expand the centres in the future and to enable them to process all speed violations through fixed installations and even for mobile radars for the federal police and for all areas that wish to do so. Further automation or digital processing is part of a project currently under way by the Minister of Justice to complete the one-off mission. Today, a proposal is sent first and then the fine. The intention is to proceed with a one-off shipment of the fixing and fine, after which one can appeal. We will amend the law first. Then the trajectory will be automated. Administrative handling is carried out at different levels, both at federal and local police level. Within this timeframe, it is impossible to answer the question of how many people are involved. I suggest that you put that question in writing. The general rule is that 1 FTE is counted for the visioning and the determination of the images and 1.5 FTE for their administrative handling. The average cost is rapid when readability is made more difficult by ANPR. It is impossible to calculate the average cost of dealing with a speeding offence. This depends on whether or not to pay for the apples to be sent. So it's more complex than that. I fully agree with you that processing via the installed ANPR camera dynamometers will become priceless if the route is not automated. Automation is therefore accompanied by the expansion of the number of ANPR cameras on our roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u85	This question is about Police-on-web. I don't know if you've used the system yourself. It is a system by which we try to relieve the burden on the police and ensure that citizens do not have to go to the police station every time and therefore have to sacrifice free time by reporting from the computer. At present, these declarations are limited to certain types of crime, namely thefts of bicycles and mopeds, shoplifting and vandalism. The problem is that for other facts, such as the theft of two flower boxes, or an unknown person running into a parked car, the police-on-web notification is not possible. My questions are very simple. How many times a year is Police-on-web used since 2007? By the way, I've been told by the police that the system hasn't been fully automated yet. The citizen fills out the form electronically, but then it is printed out and processed by the police like any other declaration. Is that right? Are there any plans to further develop the system? I am talking about both the further digitisation and the extension to other types of complaints. I do not mean complaints such as violence against persons, for which a personal meeting is appropriate. In several police zones, including in my area, there is an alternative system. There are two types of Police-on-web: on the one hand there is the Police-on-web installed by the federal police and, on the other hand, there is the local Police-on-web, which is obviously very confusing for the citizens. What do you think of that? Do you think it is a positive development that there are two reporting systems or do you think that everything is more concentrated through the central system, which is then possibly extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u86	As far as your questions about figures are concerned, I will deliver them in writing later, because there are quite a lot of them. There are two figures per year: the number of absence notifications and the number of complaints. For 2015 the picture is naturally distorted, as the absence reports increase enormously during the summer months and the run-up to it. So one cannot just extrapolate the figures. I have another observation on the data from the alarm systems. Only the current situation is available, not that of previous years. At the end of 2014, there were 363 371 active declarations or, in other words, alarm systems in use. So we only have the figures for 2014. As for your second question, there are no plans in the short term to further develop Police-on-web systems. That project is on hold for reasons of saving. We have to make choices. We will first and foremost invest in ePolicing next year and the year after. Each zone has its own island today, with regard to the automation system. Since more and more zones work together, cooperation is often a cacophony. We shall therefore concentrate on this first, and the budgetary resources for automation will go there. Police-on-web is therefore limited to the submission of complaints, to the reporting of absences and the registration of alarm systems. As far as your example of the two co-existing Police-on-web systems is concerned, the zones are free to do so and invest in them. Of course, I prefer to see things evolve differently. It is clear that citizens would benefit from digital notification of as wide a range of facts as possible. However, there is a price tag attached to this. The priority is currently to support ePolicing. Then we will continue to deal with these other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The priorities are elsewhere, but I believe that the Police-on-web system is important when considering its benefits. For both policemen and civilians, it's a feces. Don't underestimate that. It is not customer-friendly, when working people have to sign up for small facts every time in a police station and wait half an hour there until sometimes an hour. In the end, people just don't report it. You know the ISLP system, which is a very outdated system. We need a new platform. You should see if you can integrate that module into it. That should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u88	That's what I was going to say: ePolicing will actually be the back office. You have just said yourself that in some areas the back office is seen doing the same thing as when people come to the window. So the ePolicing platform will actually be the basis in which the back office is automated. If you can plug in the ePolicing to the front office... The front office is of course sexier, because it can be unpacked, but actually it is the back office that needs to be automated to get efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic176x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 4431 by Mr Thiébaut and Questions Nos 4434 and 4436 by Mrs Ben Hamou were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 4149 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 4176 and 4402 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have been postponed.
