ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u1	Merged questions Nos 6373 by Mrs Van Cauter and 6732 by Mrs Lanjri are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u2	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the flexibility you have shown in your work, which is not the case in every committee. At least on Wednesday I have to go from one committee meeting to another and then some flexibility in our work is well taken into account. Mr Secretary of State, I would like some clarification on the status of asylum seekers. In recent months there have been many asylum seekers in this country and in Europe. They are referred to as refugees. In this context, the perception is created that they are to a large extent war refugees, those who are not personally prosecuted, but who are fleeing a war situation. That distinction is important, and I should not explain it to you because both situations result in a different protection status. The refugee status is reserved for persons who are personally prosecuted and gives very broad rights, while the status of subsidiary protection, which was created for people who had to flee but who are not personally at risk, is limited in time. It is renewable, but it is a different statute, for which social assistance can be limited, among other things. In stark contrast to the perception that these are mainly war refugees, the vast majority of those who apply for asylum get the refugee status. Only a minority enjoy subsidiary protection. The figures of the CGVS give preliminary results for 2015, until August: 4 089 recognised refugees and only 829 persons who have received the status of subsidiary protection. Thus, less than 17% of the recognitions are subsidiary protection. I therefore have a number of questions, Mr Secretary of State, about the way in which the asylum authorities grant protection status and the way in which the perception in the media is created that this does not correspond to reality. Firstly, how is it that only a minority of subsidiary protection is granted? Can it be assumed that those who receive refugee status are effectively personally endorsed in their mother country and that they are not here simply because of the conditions of war? Secondly, is the criterion 'personally prosecuted' strictly applied or is it interpreted very broadly? Have you given instructions on whether or not to apply a strict application? Finally, what social rights are currently granted to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection? Do you intend to restrict these social rights if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Pas, an asylum application is being assessed taking into account the definitions laid down in the law and international conventions. The law and the EU directive clearly state that it is necessary to examine first whether the person concerned can be regarded as a refugee. Only then will it be examined whether there is a reason for granting subsidiary protection if it is established that there is no reason to grant refugee status. The CGVS and the RVV apply that legislation. Both are independent bodies, you know that. The result is that in more cases refugee status is granted than subsidiary protection status. Compared to the European level, there is really no big difference. For the number of refugee recognitions we are above the European average, for the status of subsidiary protection we are below the average. I have already spoken a lot about this with Mr Van den Bulck and his explanation sounds plausible. He also went to this committee to answer questions. In accordance with the law, the Secretary of State cannot give instructions regarding the assessment of the protection status of an asylum seeker. As you know, I have to abide by the law. There is no difference with regard to social status. This is currently being discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I have another question. You say that the effective status is only granted in second order. What is the time limit for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u5	First there's an interview at the Foreign Office. Then there's an interview at the CGVS. The latter takes between one and two hours and is therefore really being asked, after which the decision is taken. It is then always necessary to check whether the person concerned is eligible for the refugee status. If the answer is negative, it will only be considered whether the status of subsidiary protection can be granted. It is the case in all European countries that the recognition of refugee status is usually granted a little faster. Those things aren't at the same level. We must first consider whether the refugee status can be granted, but only in the second place can subsidiary protection be applied. If the refugee status can be granted, it is no longer necessary to consider whether subsidiary protection can be granted. This, of course, ensures that there are sometimes more recognised refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u6	That is not true with the perception that it is mainly about people fleeing war situations and not about people being personally prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u7	I know. I think it is up to Mr Van den Bulck to explain this. What I have remembered from the discussions on this is that, when it comes to people coming from a conflict zone with a lot of religious sectarian violence with a lot of victims and with a lot of atrocities, then it is possible to grant recognised refugee status instead of subsidiary protection status. According to the European Asylum Office, this is also possible. Some countries, or rather, some Commissioners-General are stricter in this than others. I believe that our country is acting correctly in this area and that the investigations are being carried out correctly. I get questions about this almost weekly. After many discussions about this, my opinion is that it is happening correctly here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of March/beginning of April you paid an official visit to Morocco. We did not get much explanation in committee about the results of that visit. I submitted a written question on this subject in which the Secretary of State stated that he had again planned a visit to Morocco at the end of September/beginning of October to evaluate progress and agreed points. Mr Secretary of State, my follow-up question follows. What progress has been made and what progress has been made on the arrangements made during the first visit? Is that new mission going to Morocco? That was not 100% certain when I received the answer to my written question. What's the agenda for the mission? Will you also mention the problems that were raised last time? It concerns in particular the renegotiation and, as far as we are concerned, the withdrawal of the bilateral employment treaty in order to limit family reunification. Will the bilateral convention on social security be renegotiated? What is the specific agenda of that mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u9	Ms Pas, the mission took place on 1 October 2015. I visited three countries together with Minister Vandeput and Minister Jambon, in particular Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco. Morocco was the last country we visited. The meeting went well. The agreement with Minister for the Interior Hassad is to sign an effective bilateral agreement on technical matters. The negotiation of a Readmission Agreement is, as you know, a competence of the European Commission. We cannot negotiate on this, but we can make technical agreements. The deal is to be done with that by the end of the year. I agreed with Minister Jambon this morning that he would call Minister Hassad again. That is important to keep the soup warm, so to speak. We're working on that very intensely. It is the first time that the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Migration go to Morocco twice within six months. I have also seen the Moroccan ambassador a few times and Minister Jambon has also met him. It is certainly an important priority for this government to be able to make good agreements there. There have also been three technical missions of the Foreign Office. Our top officials also go there all the time. It's a long-term process, but I hope to get it done before the end of the year. I can say that there is a growing awareness that this is an important dossier for us. We have shown this in the past year by sending or receiving a delegation every two months. There is another discussion on the deadlines for the Readmission. When will we get an answer when we ask for the identification of someone without a right of residence? Now it can take years or we can't get an answer at all. So it is important that we put a deadline on that. That is the most important point of discussion. I think we'll figure it out. If we want to find a compromise, it must be possible. There are enough elements on the table to achieve that. I do not think it is a good idea to cancel the bilateral agreement on family reunification, employment or social security rights. I'm sure I understand where that might come from. Let me give you the example of the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, there has been a very fierce debate about limiting the social security rights of Moroccan family men and women, especially those who go back to Morocco afterwards. It was said that the standard of living in Morocco is lower and that they should not receive such a high pension or such a high benefit. This has led to an immense diplomatic riot with Morocco. The result is that the Netherlands has since returned zero persons to Morocco. We send back 350 to 450 people a year. Those are often people with a hard past, let me put it this way. I believe that we must have the courage to weigh things up. Moreover, it is not the case that the Netherlands has achieved this. They've got two zeros on the counter. They have no agreement on reducing those benefits when Moroccan migrants return. Let me give you an example. A Moroccan migrant comes here, he works here under the bilateral employment agreement for thirty years and then gets a pension. Then he wants to buy a cottage in Marrakech and he goes to live there. The Dutch Government intended to say that the standard of living there is lower and that the pension had to be cut by half or at least reduced, I do not know exactly in what order of magnitude. From a Moroccan point of view, this was found unjust. After all, they had done that work here. So they haven't brought that in and in the meantime they can't get anyone away to Morocco either. If you ever speak to a parliamentary delegation from the Netherlands, I would advise you to discuss with them how they are looking at this incident. It may seem a good idea, but if you push that stone into the corridor, you should be careful not to come back and flatten you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. It is to your credit that you make it a priority to bring this to your attention, but it is of course not the frequency with which you go there that interests me, but the results that will eventually be achieved. If one is too careful and lays too many eggs under it, perhaps nothing will happen at all. Mr Secretary of State, last time you specifically referred to the problem of Casablanca airport as a transit airport, but now you have not said anything about it. Have we made any progress on this? I'll follow up on that. You say that things should be done by the end of the year. I will ask about the results by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a question, partly in connection with a story in MO Magazine. However, I am concerned about the general principles that we apply here in our country when a child of majority age asks for family reunification. The story of a 21-year-old young man from Syria who applied for asylum in our country because his uncle, aunt and two cousins are already living in our country. His parents also live in our country. The person concerned entered the European Union and registered in Latvia. Afterwards he travelled to Belgium, assuming that he could go to his parents. However, when examining his application, of course, the place where he was first registered was looked at, namely Latvia. So our country sent him back to Latvia, where he was granted refugee status. He has a blue passport, so he can still visit his parents in Belgium. However, he was not reunited with his family. My questions also relate to the application of the Dublin Convention. A revision of the Dublin Convention has taken place following the MSS judgment. MSS is the Afghan asylum seeker who had applied for asylum in our country in 2012, but which we had sent back to Greece, because Greece was his first country of application. Nevertheless, our country was eventually condemned because our country should have taken care of the asylum seeker for inhumane treatment in Greece. Following that revision of the Dublin Convention, a number of criteria have been established. A first criterion stipulates that someone can be taken care of in the country with which he or she has the strongest family ties. That applies to spouses and underage children. There are also administrative links, which are the country that admitted the asylum seeker at the border of the Schengen area. That's the second phase or step. If none of the above criteria apply, the country where someone applies for asylum shall be considered. Finally, a country always has the opportunity to ignore these criteria and to deal with someone's asylum application on a humanitarian basis. My questions are as follows. Can we also use family ties to apply for asylum in our country? Is this limited, where appropriate, to minor children or are adult children also eligible who are clearly related to the parents and are therefore still family members? Is it possible to go even further towards ties with brothers or sisters? Can one be recognized because one has a brother or a sister here? Does DVZ apply the Dublin Convention in this way when someone proves that he has family ties or always depends on the first country of entry? Do they always send these people back there? Apparently, there are different applications in Europe. There are countries that also make use of the possibility to allow people on a humanitarian basis. How many applications were refused because of the Dublin Convention? Was there always a question of family ties with the applicant in our country? Since the 2012 MMS judgment, we have not sent asylum seekers back to Greece. Is that still the case today? Are we still not sending people registered in Greece back, or is that happening in the meantime? After all, you now have a completely new context, with the hotspots and registration. Do we also use these humanitarian grounds? Do we give admission on the basis of the existing possibilities in the Dublin Convention if it is clear that a 19-year-old or a 20-year-old was part of a family in Syria and is therefore not a single adult? What do we decide if his family is recognized here and he arrives later and asks for asylum to live with his parents? Are we dealing with this asylum application on the basis of the possibilities offered by the Dublin Convention or are we saying that it is over 18 years old and that it has to go back to the country where it was first registered? Dublin provides for this possibility. I hope we use that, but I'm not sure, given the story in the media about the Syrian boy of 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your very comprehensive explanation. You know it's hard for me to talk about individual files. Apparently, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber state that this must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u13	I have given an example from the media, but your answer really should not be about that example. My questions are about the principles. It should not be about this individual case for me. I am concerned about the principles that are being applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u14	I'm not commenting on individual cases anyway. Firstly, yes, it was possible under the Dublin II regulation and it is also possible under the Dublin III regulation. Secondly, Article 2 of the Dublin II Regulation defines the term family member as follows: 1. the spouse of the applicant or the non-married partner with whom a lasting relationship is maintained. 2. the minor children of the above couples, provided they are not married. 3. if the applicant is a minor and unmarried person, the family members shall be the father, mother or adult responsible. 4. if the beneficiary of international protection is a minor and unmarried person, the family members shall be the father, mother or adult responsible. The adult children are excluded from the scope of the definition "Member of the family'. If the asylum seeker is an unaccompanied minor or a dependent person, other family ties, brother, sister, aunt, uncle or grandparent, may also play a role in determining the responsible Member State. Thirdly and fourthly, during the interview with DVZ, it is always asked whether the asylum seeker has family ties in Belgium or another Member State. The country of entry does not matter. If the person concerned has family ties in Belgium and the conditions of the Regulation have been met, DVZ will deal with the asylum application. I ask for a written question for specific statistics. I should like to refer to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, you spoke very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u16	I have to leave at 12:30. I got here in time. I said that at first, but you didn't hear it. So you shouldn't be mad when I'm gone at 12:30. That's a deal with the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u17	No problem. It is clear that this is only about underage children. A 19-year-old adult, a young man or woman who wants to join her mother or father, can't do that. However, the Dublin Regulation provides for the possibility of dealing with asylum applications on humanitarian grounds. I would ask you to take this opportunity into account. It's probably not about a lot of cases. Nowadays, children at 18 years of age are not independent and leave the house. I hope you will take this into account, Mr Secretary of State. I will ask another written question for the figures. For the time being, however, it seems that an eighteen-year-old cannot join his family anymore, whereas the Dublin Regulation makes it perfectly possible for Europe to do so. You're talking about adults.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u18	Mrs Lanjri, you have not listened carefully. This is considered on a case-by-case basis. Dublin allows this, but it depends on the situation. I'm not going into individual files.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u19	Is this also considered on a case-by-case basis for adults?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u20	In my opinion, the Foreign Affairs Office treats every file properly, correctly, on the basis of international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u21	So family reunification is possible for adults, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u22	Individual cases may be possible. That situation must then be convincing, and that is not always the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u23	Okay, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, a law recently adopted by the Hungarian Parliament now allows the massive deployment of military personnel at the borders and authorizes the army and the police, under certain specific conditions, to open fire against refugee candidates, provided that these shots are not "mortal". The army is also authorized to carry out identity checks and custody of the migrants in question. The new system, which complements anti-migrant legislation that came into force on 15 September, also allows the police to search any private home where refugee candidates are suspected of being present. The situation in Hungary is catastrophic from the point of view of respect for the most basic human rights and therefore calls on the Foreign Office to apply the entire provisions of the Dublin Regulation, particularly Article 3.2(2) of the Regulation, which states: "Where it is impossible to transfer an applicant to the Member State originally designated as responsible because there are serious grounds to believe that there are systemic shortcomings in the asylum procedure and the reception conditions for applicants, which entail a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment within the meaning of Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the Member State making the determination of the responsible Member State shall continue to examine the criteria set out in Chapter 3". Mr Secretary of State, in these circumstances, can you confirm to me that the Foreigners' Office fully implements the Dublin Regulation (including its Article 3.2, which I have just mentioned) and therefore assumes responsibility for the processing of the asylum applications of those concerned because of the serious shortcomings found in Hungary? Can you tell me how many refugee candidates from Hungary who have joined our country have been sent back to Hungary since 1 January 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u25	Dear colleague, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Hungary authorises a limited number of "Dublin" transfers per day, in order to ensure proper reception and proper treatment of the procedure for returnees in this context. These persons are therefore not victims of failure to comply with the asylum procedure and reception conditions. To our knowledge, the Aliens Litigation Council has not yet suspended or annulled this type of transfer decision to Hungary. Pursuant to rule 122 of the Rules of the House, I cannot provide you with the statistics in an oral question. Please ask me a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, Hungary's decision is quite recent. It's catastrophic. It is a matter of possible non-lethal shooting on migrants passing through Hungary. This decision dates back to a few weeks ago; this is probably the reason why you have not yet received any requests or appeals on this issue. As you suggest, I will ask you the question in writing. I still draw your political attention to the fact that the situation there is catastrophic. It would not be a matter for Belgium to send the hot potato back to Hungary, i.e. to send back migrants from Hungary where their humanitarian, political, and simply human situation would be appalling. This would be tantamount to condemning them, perhaps not to a certain death, but to certain wounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of September, the Commissioner-General for Refugees decided to hold a decision on the granting of subsidiary protection to asylum seekers from Baghdad and the surrounding area. After all, it was found that the number of asylum applications from Iraq had increased explosively. About half of Iraqi asylum applications came in August. On the website of the CGVS, he also writes literally that a lot of asylum seekers cite similar facts in a more stereotyped manner and produce a stereotyped story, which apparently led to the conclusion that these are lucky seekers and not real asylum seekers. That conclusion was also reached because the security situation in Baghdad has been positively evaluated. It turns out that there has been a rumor stream in Iraq that depicts Belgium as the land of milk and honey, where it is good to apply for asylum. That is a situation in which crooked smugglers are all too eager to respond. We're two months later now. What is the status of the decision-making stop? Has it been confirmed and is it definitively converted into a refusal to grant subsidiary protection status? How many people from the region have submitted such an asylum application on suspicious grounds, with that stereotypical story to which the CGVS refers? What's the profile of these people? Is it mostly men, families? Could you give us some more information on that? How many of these people have been granted refugee status or subsidiary protection? Are these files being reviewed or has the Statute been taken away in such cases? What happened to the people from that region after the September decision-shoot? Where are they at the moment and in what statute? Some people were deported? Have people returned voluntarily, as they now receive a return bonus? How many people were removed from the territory? I would like some figures on this. You've already launched a distress campaign on Facebook. Are you planning any further measures to stop the economic fortune seekers in that region more vigorously?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, on 22 September, the Iraqi residents of the Belgian asylum-seeking centres received a signed letter from your hand, which follows the same logic as the purchase by your services of an advertising space on the Facebook social network in Iraq. You are clearly aimed at discouraging Iraqi asylum applications. Thus, your mail has announced the freezing since September 3 – in the meantime we know that the decision of the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) has changed – of the analysis of the files of nationals from the Iraqi capital and its surroundings. Your letter states in English and Arabic: "Since 2014, the situation in Iraq has changed in such a way that a return of the asylum-seeker to that region no longer poses a real risk to him". It is a point of view that I find very surprising when we know that six Belgian F-16s participated, from 24 September 2014 to 2 July 2015, in air strikes against Daesh in Iraq, in the name of the security situation, in particular around Baghdad. Your Defence colleague announced a possible resumption of these Belgian strikes in the summer of 2016. That's what the Defence website is announcing. Moreover, in its advice to travellers, the FPS Foreign Affairs, managed by your colleague Reynders, announces on its website - which I consulted on 8 October - that: "The security situation in Iraq remains unstable and very dangerous for all travellers. The risk of attacks and acts of banditry is high. The recent fighting and the risk of violence spreading to Baghdad make the situation very precarious and volatile." Basically, there are two different visions, that of your letter to the refugee candidates and that of the SPF Foreign Affairs, with an English and Arabic version for the Iraqis and a French and Dutch version for the Belgians. Mr Secretary of State, what are the sources that make you say that the situation in Baghdad and its surroundings has improved in recent months, has such a point that you or at least your services are freezing applications for asylum and temporary protection for applicants from this region? I know that the decision has changed between the filing of my question and the moment I ask you. Are your services not working with Defence and FPS Foreign Affairs to assess the security situation in the areas in question? Given the expertise, in particular the defence that comes from Iraq and the foreign affairs that has a network, does this not prompt you to reassess your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u29	Mr President, I apologise, but the meeting of the Management Committee ended. Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members have undoubtedly already outlined the reasons for these questions. At the beginning of September, the Commissioner-General announced that asylum applications from the Baghdad region in Iraq would no longer be assessed temporarily. He announced a decision stop that lasted a few weeks because the refugees told stereotypical stories that lacked the necessary details. This led them to suspect that they were driven by human smugglers. The Commissioner-General has therefore decided to stop processing all applications from that region for two or three weeks and to first examine whether it is necessary to grant temporary protection to all asylum seekers from Baghdad. This study showed that it is no longer necessary to grant asylum seekers from that region temporary protection. The Commissioner-General considered that, although the situation in Baghdad is problematic, it is not of that nature to automatically label everyone as a person at risk of being the victim of violence. Therefore, from now on, dossiers will be assessed individually on the basis of that risk of prosecution. Mr Secretary of State, can you give me an estimate of the number of applications that cited similar facts and told the same flight story? In the meantime, could a decrease be observed following the introduction of the decision-stop? An individual assessment of the security risk for each dossier from the Baghdad region obviously requires more time. Does this affect the lead time of those asylum applications? I suppose so. Will there be a return to earlier decisions that were presumably made on the basis of incorrect information?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have four brief questions. Firstly, what is the state of play on Iraqi asylum applications? Secondly, your open letter of 22 September has given the impression that applying for asylum as an Iraqi is no longer possible in our country. What purpose did that letter have, other than the betrayal of applying for asylum in our country? Thirdly, do you consider the situation in Baghdad to be safe? What reports do you base yourself on? Fourthly, what about Iraqis fleeing Iraq from war zone to Baghdad and coming from there to Europe to apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say the following in relation to Baghdad. Mr. Hellings, you lack intellectual honesty. Your quote is incomplete. The way you present the mail I sent to the Iraqis is not entirely correct. Indeed, you claim that the letter reads as follows: "Since 2014, the situation in Iraq has changed in such a way that a return of the asylum-seeker to that region no longer poses a real risk to him." My missive says: "The security situation in Baghdad has changed since 2014 so that it is no longer such as to justify the fact that every asylum-seeker from Baghdad faces a real risk in case of return." Contrary to what you suggest, I never said that there was no risk to anyone, but that there was not necessarily a risk to everyone. The independent decision of the CGRA to change its protection policy towards Baghdad reinforces my view on this issue. When you quote, I would like to ask you to quote at least the full quote and not to highlight a small part of it, because that is, of course, a great deal of proof. That quote is literally from the decision stop, it is motivated and is on the website of the CGVS. That is not my quote, that quote comes from the Commissioner-General himself, that is not from me. So I think it is very brief what you are trying to do here, the game you are trying to play here. I have already said it to your colleague from the PVDA in plenary last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u33	I never said that Iraq is safe, that Baghdad is a safe city... I have never said that Baghdad is a safe city, and you should not insinuate that, because that is absolutely not right. I did mention the quote from the decision-stop. I see that the Commissioner-General's policy has also been adapted. A decision stop was first introduced and then an adjustment of the policy was made. Baghdad is no longer automatically 15C area. This means that Baghdad no longer automatically leads to recognition and at least subsidiary protection, often also to recognised refugees. That's what happened. In doing so, we are doing the same thing that the Netherlands did six months ago and what Finland introduced two weeks ago. Suddenly all those Baghdadi were in Finland, more than 300 a day. If you tell me that what I'm doing can't be done, you'd better put your ear to EASO, the European Asylum Office, to hear what's happening. You say that letter was sent. That's right, yes. This makes it clear to those people what the fork is like. It's not because the CGVS puts something on its website that everyone knows immediately. I think we can agree on that, too. I think it's important to inform people. If a decision stop is introduced, I think that is a very important fact. If one sees one getting a story, where, in two to three months' time, one gets six thousand to seven thousand Iraqis, 150 a day, almost all of them from Baghdad, all with the same story, I think that is a question of good policy, to be honest. I have never said that people from Baghdad will no longer be recognised as refugees. Nor have I said that people can no longer be protected in a subsidiary way. That was never said, neither by me, nor by my services, nor by the government. The government would like to inform people if a huge stream of information was suddenly launched through networks towards our country, which suddenly moved to another country after the decision and was seen before in another country. It happens from country to country, they are foamed off, we should not be naive in that. I think it is the responsibility of the government and of me as the competent Secretary of State to inform the people of the decision-making stop. I did not introduce that decision stop, but the Commissioner-General. If you know him a little bit, you will know that he does so in complete independence and that he will certainly not ask me what I think about that. I think it's a good policy. If the situation continues for other countries, I will do the same. I would repeat the same thing, and it is very important to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I know that I have raised a lot of figures. I will ask them again in writing, because today's limited period of time does not allow you to quote them all. It seems interesting to me to know the numbers of them. Certainly also to know whether something will be reversed for those who have received recognition before the decision-making stop with such identical narratives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u35	On the 150 a day yesterday there were 20 and the day before yesterday 26; so that has fallen very much since that decision-making stop and especially since that letter. So that has an incredible impact on the asylum figures. This also applies to the 200 euro Facebook campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u36	Is it still the case for the applicants who were dealt with before that decision was taken and who also came up with that similar story or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u37	Each application will be dealt with as the Commissioner-General deals with the application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u38	So no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u39	If it turns out that they bring very stereotypical stories, it'll all be investigated to the core, and if it turns out that these are false stories, this will lead to a non-recognition, I suppose. But again, you should actually ask him that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u40	From this I conclude that this will not be the case in practice, as Sarah Smeyers says. I want to take Mr Hellings out of his dream world and put him on the ground: those are indeed the lucky seekers, that is just a normal decision, all the data were there too. I am counting on more of these decisions to be made in non-insecure areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u41	Thank you for caring about my mental health. I assure you, everything's fine! Secretary of State, the question I asked you was whether you were working with Defence and Foreign Affairs. You didn't answer that. You write a letter that you finish in English, by "This is a genuine message from the Belgian government". That's what you're talking about. It's a message from the government. You are, it is true, based on a quote from the CGRA that you write in italics. But you talk about it and assume the political responsibility to send this mail. You do not want asylum seekers from Iraq to file their applications in Belgium. That's your goal. You know that there is a difference between your remarks and those of your colleague Vandeput in Defence or your colleague Reynders in Foreign Affairs. I have just come back from a follow-up meeting of missions abroad where the security situation in Baghdad has been mentioned. Our soldiers do not leave the barracks in Baghdad where they train Iraqi soldiers and you want to send Iraqi asylum seekers back to Baghdad. It's completely contradictory!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u42	Mr Hellings, if you will excuse me, what you are saying is simply not correct. Firstly, there is no forced return to Baghdad. "Renvoyer' means a voluntary return, on which the parties concerned decide. It is wrong to say that there is a mandatory return. Secondly, again, I ask for intellectual correctness, please. Surely there is a difference between a travel advice from Foreign Affairs for Belgian citizens on the website and...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u43	Well, is there a difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u44	Of course there's a big difference. Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u45	So the security situation is good for an Iraqi but not for a Belgian?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u46	No, that's not what this is about. In the letter, the Commissioner-General says that the security situation in Baghdad has changed. That's what I'm quoting what he's writing. In his view, there are sufficient elements to assess the changed security situation. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u47	The situation has not changed sufficiently to explain that asylum is not granted or in any case that it is not possible to apply for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u49	You're looking forward to the frost. You announce to the Iraqis in the asylum centers (...) May I speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u50	I call Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you welcome the fact that the CGRA has changed its position with regard to the security situation in Baghdad and you are announcing to the refugee candidates that the decision has been frozen. In the meantime, the CGRA has completely independently returned to its decision, which is true and for good reasons. Indeed, the region's defence specialists, who were there six months ago and who are still there to train military personnel, believe that the security situation in Baghdad is catastrophic. You froze and you say to the Iraqis, "Don't come and ask for asylum because we're freezing."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u52	Ni M. Van Overtveldt ni moi-même n'avons rien gelé. I sent a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u53	You're telling the Iraqis that the CGRA has frozen the situation. What is the purpose of this letter? What is your goal? Your goal is for fewer Iraqis to come. However, the situation in Iraq justifies at least temporary or total protection. That's it! We disagree. MM. Reynders and Vandeput are not in your opinion either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u54	Then you'll have to ask them questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u56	That's interesting to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u57	I call Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u58	You probably asked Reynders if what I said was right. He probably...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u59	Mr. Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u60	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Mr Hellings, you asked: This decision was not taken by the Secretary of State, but by an independent body, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. ♪ A quoi ça sert? ♪ Managing and controlling the largest influx of refugees ever. I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that you have succeeded well so far. Every day you face an incredible task, which is to manage that incredible influx. No one would have thought it would be this big. The figures you give show that this decision has not come too early; there is a decrease. Those asylum applications are still being dealt with, but in a different way. The protection status is no longer automatically granted. Everyone gets individual treatment. Even with this massive influx, it is still decided to go deeper into those files. It would be much easier to approve them in bulk, but we do not. The Commissioner-General's attitude is correct and correct. The only right general vision and attitude, including yours, is to manage and control that influx. So please do not be rushed by Members who leave the sitting while others still have to replicate. (...): (...) two committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u61	Well, that's a little bit of an interest perspective. Please don't let that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u62	I'd be ashamed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u63	I'm also ashamed when I hear you, Mrs. De Coninck. I thought I'd still have the floor. Mr Secretary of State, it is not the case that earlier applications Mrs Pas is right to be re-examined. This would not benefit the principle of legal certainty. It is good that a decision has already been made. The Netherlands had already done so. We're doing it now. I am sure that countries will follow as the figures speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u64	Mr De Vriendt has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u65	Mrs Smeyers, I would first like to say that Mr Hellings has several committees at the same time. It is therefore not unusual for him, after having received the answer, to go to another committee. You were here too late, by the way. Mr Secretary of State, if you have indications of filières, stories that are manufactured, it is normal that you respond to them and give the message to the refugees that you are aware of them. You say that the Commissioner-General is independent, but you did go into a grey zone by the letter you signed. It is quite exceptional that a Secretary of State should address a letter to refugees and sign it. So that letter is not from Belgium as a state, but from yourself, in your own name. That's a gray zone. That's pretty exceptional. That's not common. It's your intention to dissuade, but you can go too far in that. You yourself say that Baghdad and Iraq are not necessarily unsafe, but an asylum seeker may be fleeing from Baghdad from an unsafe, violent situation. By signing and distributing such a letter via Facebook, you deter legitimate asylum seekers from Baghdad and Iraq. Refugees who are in such a situation and wish to make use of the internationally guaranteed right to asylum will be deterred by your letter and will not apply for asylum in our country, even though they are entitled to it. I think that's where you went. Your announcement came at the same time, of course, with a communication from your party chairman, which you cannot do anything about, but the picture was sketched that Baghdad would be safe. This is contradicted by reality. There have been attacks in Baghdad. Iraq itself is clearly unsafe. That's what's in the travel recommendations on the Foreign Affairs website. There's a war there. Today, the American President announces additional offensives in Iraq in the newspapers. In fact, you did not answer the question of the category of Iraqis who are fleeing to Baghdad from an undisputed war zone in Iraq and who then, from Baghdad, flee to Europe and apply for asylum. Are those people fleeing Baghdad, which you believe is safe, or are they effectively fleeing war zones in Iraq, but via Baghdad? That's a problem, isn't it? It seems logical to me that Iraqis from war zones may first flee to the capital to move on to Europe from there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u66	Mr President, first of all, I can only regret the fact that intellectually unfair games are being played on the heads of refugees. Wrong quoting in committee, last week in plenary and now making it appear as if I would have said that Baghdad is safe, I find it very unfair and it is not correct. Everyone in the room knows that. The Facebook page is still online. One can find the message and the letter perfectly online. One can request that information. Then read them and come to your own judgment. However, it is clearly wrong that I would have said that Baghdad is safe and I regret these intellectually unfair games from a certain angle and from certain Members of Parliament. I can only repeat that, but most of all they continue. Such a letter is indeed quite exceptional, but the situation is, of course, quite exceptional. I think this is even the first time, but it is also the first time we have seen such a situation where suddenly, at a few weeks' time, more than 150 Iraqis a day apply from Baghdad. The majority of them are single men and a large part of them worked for the Iraqi government until recently. That's weird. I think it makes sense for people to ask questions. Stop telling me all those stories about the decision stop I would have ordered, because that's not right. I cannot repeat that enough, because it is not because it is said ten times that people will believe it. After all, I will say ten times that it is not right. That people believe above all who they want to believe. The decision stop was introduced by the Commissioner-General and anyone who knows anything about foreign contentieux knows that it is independent. I don't have a decision stop to put in, I can't. Even if I wanted to, I can't. The decision has been made. I sent a letter on that. Of course, that has been passed on to the Prime Minister. I do not know where the myths come from that Ministers Reynders and Vandeput would not agree to this. However, if you ask Minister Reynders whether he agrees with the statement made by Secretary of State Francken that Baghdad is safe, then Minister Reynders will probably reply that he does not agree with that statement. However, I have never said that myself. I can also draw up parliamentary questions in this way; there is no need to be a genius for that. The situation is therefore exceptional, but the whole situation is exceptional, and exceptional situations also require exceptional measures, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u67	The final word will be given to the members of the committee. Does anyone still want to replicate? Mrs. Pas, Mrs. Smeyers, Mr. De Vriendt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, the Commissioner-General works independently, but you do write a letter, which you sign in your own name, so there is a grey zone there. The bulkheads are no longer clear because you have entered a grey zone. You should be aware of that yourself. I insist that Iraqis who have a legitimate right to asylum are deterred by your communication. You should have added a sentence to your letter. That's why I'm making a suggestion. You could have added to your letter that Iraqis can still apply for asylum in our country and that their file will be assessed individually. That's not in your letter. With your letter, you outline an image used against Iraqis as a deterrent. You are announcing a freeze, a stop to decisions, because we are no longer convinced that the situation in Baghdad is unsafe. Anyone who, with right and reason, flees a violent situation is deterred in this way and may not apply for asylum in Belgium, which cannot be the intention. Once again, you have not answered my question as to what happens to the Iraqis fleeing to Baghdad from their country of war and from there to Europe to apply for asylum. Are they being treated as someone from Baghdad or as someone from an unsafe area in Iraq?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u69	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, you say that I am in a grey zone and that I have crossed a line. So you say that the Commissioner-General is not independent. I find it particularly scratchy that you dare to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u70	I deny that. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u71	You have said that I am in a grey zone, that the Commissioner-General is no longer independent and that I have made a mistake. I didn't make a mistake. I communicated a decision, taken independently by the Commissioner-General, via a letter of information to the Iraqis in the asylum centres. I did. The day when you, or anyone else, say that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is no longer allowed to communicate about the decisions taken in all independence by the Commissioner-General, we are still far from home. I have communicated about a decision taken in complete independence. If you claim that this is already a grey area, we can almost shut down all the Home Affairs websites that contain information on the Commissioner-General's policy. After all, I provide weekly information on the Commissioner-General's policy. That is also the case, for example, for all the parliamentary questions I receive. These are all answers to the Commissioner-General's policy. I just received a question from Mrs Pas on subsidiary protection and recognised refugee status. Surely I am not in a grey zone by answering how the Commissioner-General does that? I find it particularly scratching that you dare to say that this is a grey zone. You say I know perfectly well that I made a mistake. I don't know that at all. I firmly deny that a mistake would have been made here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u72	Mr De Vriendt, you will of course have the last word, but I would like to remind you of the speaking time allowed by the Rules of Procedure for an oral question. You have already exceeded that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u73	I am well aware of that, Mr President, but I have not yet received an answer to those other concerns. As far as that grey zone is concerned, by signing such a letter personally, you have entered a grey zone. That's exceptional. You admitted that yourself. That's very bizarre. You are sending out the message to Iraqis that they should no longer apply for asylum in Belgium. That can't be the intention. Many Iraqis flee an unsafe situation. You are deterring those who are entitled to asylum in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, in De Standaard of 30 September, I read some remarkable statements by Mr Freddy Roosemont, Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I read, among other things, the following: "I am confident that the number of closed centres can be doubled. There won't be any empty ones. Over the past few months, we've found a lot of undocumented people we couldn't remove because the closed centers were full. We urgently need to get rid of this delay." Mr Secretary of State, it is one of your policy interests, as we could read in your policy paper, in order to do more about the expulsion of illegal immigrants in future. When I read Mr Roosemont's statements, there is still some work to be done. It is indeed an observation that it is easier for this government to create a large number of shelters in a short time to accommodate the refugees who have been received, but it seems that it is more difficult to manage the outflow of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum seekers. Will the necessary resources be allocated to increase the number of places in closed centres for the expulsion of illegal immigrants in the short term to the level necessary to effectively identify all detected illegal and rejected asylum seekers? Of how many illegals do the services know that they cannot be removed because of the lack of closed shelters? That is the problem to which Mr Roosemont refers. What is the delay in this respect? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, are you considering adjusting the government's measure for the employment of refugees, as indicated by Mr Roosemont in that article?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u75	With regard to the employment of refugees, the government has decided to allow asylum seekers to work more quickly: from four months instead of six months. I think that's what you asked for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u76	I did indeed forget to mention that in my question. In that interview Mr Roosemont also said that he did not think it was a good decision at all to reduce that period from six to four months. He felt that this should only apply to recognised asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u77	Acknowledged refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u78	In his view, this should indeed apply to approved persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u79	I do not know exactly what Mr Roosemont means by that. The decision has certainly been taken to make them work faster. I think this is a good thing. You should also remember that they have to pay half of their accommodation costs if they work. It's in the shelter law. The shelter is very expensive. So I would certainly allow them to pay back the high costs of shelter if that is possible. The fact that they work is certainly not a bad thing. For the illegal residents, the necessary resources have been acquired to increase the capacity of the closed centres from 450 to 605 places. This is an unprecedented increase of 34%. In early December a new wing will be opened in Merksplas. At the beginning of next year, an empty wing, which is not currently open due to lack of staff, will be put into operation in center 127bis. The recruitments through Selor are in full swing. The aim is to have 605 places in the closed centres by 1 April 2016. That number also existed under Minister Wathelet. That number is also really necessary to enable a better return policy, voluntary if it is possible, forced if it is necessary. The forced return must also be well arranged, especially for those who have no good intentions on Belgian territory. It is especially those who do not want to return voluntarily. It is very important that we continue to work on this. You have asked for a number of figures. I would like to suggest again that you request it in writing. It is also not so easy to make the analysis of who could possibly be removed in what way, if there are more places. It is not just a question of lack of space, but of course there is also a lack of cooperation from the home country. I would like to provide you with figures, but I suggest that you submit your questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, I will ask and study all the figures again in writing. The problem is that there are currently too few closed centres to implement an effective and efficient expulsion policy. In April there will be 605 places. That is something, but I do not think that is enough. Your asylum and migration policy stands or falls with an efficient and effective expulsion policy. I wonder why it is easy to find additional shelters to allow the refugees to stay here, but there is so little capacity to support the expulsion policy. I urge you to do so, because that is not an insignificant aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, about ten years ago, the CGRA decided to set up a "Psy cell" to train and advise the protection officers responsible for hearing asylum seekers. Indeed, refugees who have experienced situations of war and real risk to their lives may be victims of mental disorders (post-traumatic stress, depression, etc.). may affect the normal conduct of the interview with the protection officer. It is very important that this disturbed mental state does not prevent serene and objective treatment of the file. Since January, however, there are no psychologists at CGRA. And it was decided not to replace the psychologist for budgetary reasons. The Psy cell is therefore removed in fact. This recent development at the level of the bodies responsible for examining asylum applications is to be brought into line with our international obligations, which arise in particular from Directive 2013/32/EU on common procedures for the granting and withdrawal of international protection. This Directive gives special treatment to persons suffering from mental disorders or from the consequences of torture or other serious forms of psychological violence in the context of the procedure for the recognition of refugee status. Thus, Member States must endeavour to identify those applicants requiring special procedural guarantees. These applicants must be given adequate support and sufficient time to support their application for international protection. Similarly, persons interrogating applicants must have a general knowledge of the problems that may affect the ability of applicants to be interviewed, for example, to have been subjected to torture in the past. So how do you justify the removal of the Psych cell in the light of our international obligations? What is the status of the transposition of Directive 2013/32/EU on the common asylum procedure? How is the psychic status of the asylum applicant now taken into account in the examination of the application? What is planned at the level of protection officer training and council? Finally, are there currently blocked files, following the finding of disorders that make it difficult or impossible to treat the file calmly and objectively? This question, as well as the next one, is inspired by a visit we made with the commission to the Bierset Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Demeyer, at the outset, the CGRA pointed out that at the time, the psychologist had the task of verifying whether the medical problems raised were relevant or well-founded with a view to examining the asylum application. Its role was not to systematically identify asylum-seekers with special needs. In order to comply with the obligation to identify and take measures to take account of asylum-seekers with special needs, it is first of all crucial to develop a system under which the asylum-seeker concerned is given the opportunity to express his/her needs. In this regard, the involvement of a psychologist is not absolutely necessary. The identification of special needs and the examination of possible medical and/or mental problems shall take place on the basis of evidence or medical certificates submitted by the asylum-seekers concerned. It is possible that at CGRA some files, the exact number of which is unknown but is very low, may be blocked by people with very serious medical or mental problems. However, their situation is rather related to the seriousness of these problems, making it impossible to audition in the absence of mentors or psychologists. Finally, however, the possibility of appointing experts for medical examinations is being examined in the context of the transposition of the Procedures Directive. I also answered a question from Mr Hellings on this point last week. My answer was even broader. I understand your concern, but steps have been taken and I think that now is in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. I will not fail to follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question is also a follow-up to the visit to the CARDA centre in Bierset which I have made with several members of the Committee on the Interior. As a reminder, CARDA was created in 2007 at the initiative of the Red Cross. It is a residential reception centre for mentally retarded asylum seekers. CARDA also provides outpatient care for asylum seekers in other reception centres. This is the only centre of the Belgian reception network with this therapeutic specificity. CARDA has also developed a specific project for victims of torture, with the aim of identifying victims of torture and their families in reception centres and providing multidisciplinary support at all levels in order to facilitate their rehabilitation. According to information provided to us, in 2014, 25 per cent of asylum-seekers, i.e. 2,800 persons, were reported to have been subjected to torture or to acts that could be considered human rights violations. This figure must be linked, on the one hand, to the current capacity of CARDA, which is 40 places, and, on the other hand, to our international obligations regarding the treatment of victims of torture in the context of reception. Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards for the reception of persons seeking international protection requires States to pay particular attention to victims of torture. Member States must ensure that persons who have been subjected to torture, rape or other serious violence have access to adequate medical and psychological treatment or care. In addition, minors who have been victims of torture or abuse must have access to appropriate rehabilitation services and health care. Finally, personnel responsible for victims of torture, rape and other serious violence should continue to receive appropriate training. Mr Secretary of State, do you consider that the current arrangements are sufficient to comply with our international obligations? What is the status of the transposition of the Home Directive, which was recast in 2013? Consider additional means to increase the capacity to receive and monitor persons suffering from mental suffering or torture whose number is unfortunately not decreasing, given the changing situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u85	Mr Demeyer, I visited CARDA in Bierset, which is an impressive project. I think it is necessary because many asylum seekers are really traumatized. The most traumatised of them must be able to benefit from a specific reception. The attention to be paid to persons who have been subjected to torture, rape or other serious violence is not limited to the CARDA centre alone. The entire reception network for asylum seekers has social workers and health workers. All reception facilities are therefore attentive to the detection of these vulnerabilities and to their management, either within the host structure, if possible, or by addressing, for example, the CARDA centre. In addition to the CARDA centre, other specialized services may also be requested depending on the vulnerability detected, such as ASBL Solentra, Ulysses, GAMS and Intact. Fedasil also has a convention with these associations, which carry out extraordinary work. With regard to the provisions of the 2013 Home Directive in relation to Fedasil's competences, the transposition texts in the Home Law have been prepared. It should be noted that the priority of the call for projects of the European AMIF programme is the establishment of a structural approach for asylum seekers with psychological or psychiatric problems and the facilitation and organisation of home care for serious chronic patients. This appeal was opened until 21 September. I am aware that for CARDA and the Red Cross, it is important to have more security when talking about subsidies. This is why the call for projects under the European AMIF programme was launched to create a structural fund over several years. Belgium called for priority to be given to a structural approach for asylum seekers suffering from psychological problems. I'm sure the Red Cross will hand over a file. A project such as that of the CARDA centre is essential for the reception network in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u86	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, a dispatch from Agence France Presse suggests that in addition to the 8,000 seats announced at the Council of Ministers on 11 September, you are planning to call on the private sector to create 10,000 seats. I am surprised at the principle of this appeal to the private sector. It therefore seems to me important to ask you about a series of beacons that such a project would require. First of all, I assume that it is not a question of turning to the voluntary sector, otherwise there would have been no reference to the private sector. If this track is actually explored, is it a call for tenders for the construction of spaces alone? I assume that there is no question of entrusting the private sector with the management of these new places. Secondly, I still assume that this is a call for projects for construction on land belonging to the federal state, already clearly identified, and not a real estate promotion operation in which the promoter himself owns the land on which he intends to build the order. How far will the mission of the private sector extend: design, implementation of in-house plans, public-private partnership? I think it is necessary to shed some light on this. In all cases, here again, there is the question of consultation with the municipalities involved in the development of these projects. What are they? What contacts did you make? How will these municipalities be involved in the project? Finally, I have to ask you about the budgets. There is a concern that your ambition is to favour collective centres at the expense of individual reception, which is known to be less expensive to the community at the end of the race for better results. What amounts do you intend to commit to this call to the private sector? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u88	Fernandez Fernandez, first of all, the ILA (Local Hosting Initiative) places are no less expensive. Secondly, with regard to the private sector, I understand that this is not easy. Indeed, we usually work with the Fedasil Agency and partners such as the Red Cross and Rode Kruis, CIRE (Coordination and initiatives for refugees and foreigners), Vluchtelingenwerk Vlaanderen, etc. However, in extraordinary circumstances, extraordinary measures. We made three calls. The first, for a capacity of 10,000 places to open in the course of 2016, was published on 7 August. Secondly, in view of the urgency imposed by the exceptional number of arrivals of asylum seekers, Fedasil also issued two urgent appeals on 28 August and 11 September, with a view to creating an additional 2,000 and 5,000 places respectively. This is a public procurement open to all, private operators, NGOs, ASBL. The Red Cross, for example, can participate. At the level of quality, European standards are applied. This contract concerns the opening of reception places, their day-to-day management with the usual accompanying activities and services provided in reception facilities for asylum seekers. The applicant must himself propose a site in which the reception will be organised. He may be the owner or tenant of the proposed building. The government agreement provided for the need for adequate capacity. Two thousand buffer places had been planned by the Di Rupo government. This was a good decision, but these places were occupied in two weeks; as early as August there were no more places. It is a good thing that there is this buffering device, but more is needed. Public procurement for the opening of 2,000 and 5,000 places has not been conclusive. We found about 2,200 places out of the 7,000 requested. It's hard. I expected more results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u89	Are these 2,200 places already created or only identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u90	They're granted. They were to be opened within four to eight weeks. They're opening now. It takes a little time, because you have to find staff, provide catering, etc. I hope that the offer of 10,000 places for 2016 will be more successful, but I am not sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u91	I did not understand whether the operators who responded were private or public operators. I understand that they can be NGOs. That would be wise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u92	Operators are private.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u93	What kind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u94	Bridgestock, a private company that is already hosting asylum seekers in England for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u95	Yes, it's an international firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u96	I have already replied to a question by Mr De Vriendt about the companies that have won the award.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u97	I'll go see that answer. As far as the 10,000 seats are concerned, you don't have an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u98	For April 2016
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u99	When you say that management is being handed over, what do you mean by that? The whole management, the reception of people, the supervision of people too? (Yes)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u100	These are European quality levels, standardised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u101	I get it. I'm just worried it's handled by the private sector. It's not in my philosophy. You'll understand that. I'll go read the answer to Mr. De Vriendt and I will not fail to come back as needed. I would like to make another comment on your introduction. You claim that ILA seats are no less expensive. This may be true, but in my view they remain much more effective in terms of the integration of applicants than collective places.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u102	I understand your concern and share it. As far as ILAs are concerned, 8 000, 10 000, 15 000 places cannot be opened in two months in ILA. We have to work in every field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u103	I understand perfectly. I was reacting to your comments on equal costs, but we also have to take into account the value for money, because we have to talk about it in this area too, and I wanted to share my feeling, as you shared yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u104	Mr President, we could have joined the questions, but it has been a long time since they were asked according to the current situation. Maybe they're a little disjointed, and I beg you to excuse me. Mr Secretary of State, the Council of Ministers of 11 September last announced the creation of 8,000 reception places by the winter. This first announcement, made, all in all, under the pressure of events is undoubtedly good news and the sign, perhaps, that the government is beginning to appreciate the urgency it is facing. Nevertheless, a series of questions remain outstanding. Mr Secretary of State, what is the nature of these additional seats? Are these structural places that replace those that you have closed? Or are these buffer places? You have already answered these two questions in part. Given the mass, it is assumed that these are mainly places in collective reception centres. Can you tell us where these places are located? Are these new centres or extension centres? In the case of new centres, have the municipal authorities of the entities on which the land is located been involved in any way in the settlement decision? I have already asked you this question, but I do not think I have received an answer. Furthermore, will specific means be made available to enable these municipalities to meet the responsibilities they will have to assume for the maximum success of these settlements in their territory? As for the management of these new places, will it be a matter of entrusting them directly to Fedasil or do you intend to entrust some of them to associations active in the field? You have also already answered this question. In the case of direct management by Fedasil, this will undoubtedly require the hiring of additional staff. How many posts do you plan to open? Here are my questions. Excuse me for the duplicates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u105	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez, the capacity of the Fedasil reception network currently has more than 25,000 operational places and is expected to increase further in the coming months to 36,000 places. The reception network's structural capacity is 16,200 places, with an additional 2,000 buffers available if needed. Beyond the structural capacity and the buffer places, the rest of the places created are reception places to deal with the emergency and are, therefore, of a temporary nature, what I hope. These are mainly collective reception places, but a significant proportion of individual reception places have also been provided for. In addition to the activation of buffers, ILAs, ICRÉ and Vluchtelingenwerk Vlaanderen, a total of 817 places activated or in the process of activation, the Council of Ministers also decided to create 1,600 additional reception places in ILA. This number has already been reached. We are already 1,800 places in ILA. There is a great deal of solidarity throughout the country, on the part of municipalities and CPAS. With Mr. Borsus, I launched a new call to reach 10,000 places in the ILA network. This means an additional 2,000 places. I hope that we will still receive a lot of solidarity from the municipalities and CPAS. As regards collective reception centres, the increase in capacity consists of both extensions within existing reception centres and new ones. The list of locations of the new sites is long but I can send it to you. The municipalities concerned are always informed of the decisions. In addition, as with any municipality hosting a reception centre in its territory, they may benefit from an annual subsidy under Article 53 of the 2007 Law, equivalent to EUR 248 per year and per reception place. Both Fedasil and other operators are involved. That is the answer to your fourth question. With regard to the reception centres run by Fedasil, since 1 July 251 new employees have entered service and 150 are in the process of being recruited. The numbers start to date as there are now more than 300 extra workers only for Fedasil. Not to mention the Red Cross. The situation is indeed generating enormous work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u106	Mr Secretary of State, the municipalities concerned are informed. It's finally the least thing. Their work and proposals should be commended on a voluntary basis. I will continue to demand on behalf of my group, and you will not be surprised, a distribution plan across the country. Unless I am mistaken, I understand that this subsidy under section 53 has recently been amended but that the implementing decree has not been reviewed for several years and that the municipalities are waiting. They don't know what amounts they're going to receive. This could be the subject of a further oral question. It is important that the municipalities concerned know what they will receive. Even if it's not clear, people respond favorably. In any case, on behalf of my group, I plead for a distribution plan extending to the whole country. Of course you won't be surprised. I apologize for the repetitive nature of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u107	That's a very good question. I do not intend to increase the amounts allocated to municipalities with an open centre or to ILAs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u109	You know that when you manage an ALA correctly, Fedasil's staffing is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u110	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of this year an amendment has been introduced into the foreign law. As a result, a fee is possible to obtain a residence permit for certain categories of foreign nationals. It is sometimes referred to as the foreign tax. This fee is also payable to foreign students who wish to obtain a residence permit. Students who can study on the basis of a scholarship in this country are also covered by this measure, whereas they are already in a very difficult situation and are in a financially precarious situation. Both universities and a number of NGOs are asking for an exemption for such scholarship students. There has already been a consultation with you on this matter months ago. Are you prepared to apply an exemption from the fee for students and more specifically for scholarship students? If so, where do you stand with that? When can this be implemented? Is that also retrospectively possible? If the scholarship students have already paid the fee when applying for the visa, can the services repay that money? Do you need to re-adjust the foreign law to provide for that exception? Or can that be arranged through a KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u111	I will not repeat everything Mrs Lanjri has already said and I will ask my questions immediately. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of the Royal Decree? Why would there only be an exemption for scholarship students? We want to encourage student migration, so the question arises as to why there is no exemption for all students. Flemish Minister Crevits is in favour of this general exemption. Why aren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u112	Today, 15 from Iraq, 47 from Afghanistan, that's a lot of.... and 43 from Syria. Those are today's asylum figures. Those numbers are just coming in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u113	Those aren't numbers about the students?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u114	No. Forty-seven students from Afghanistan, that would be a record! You will receive the information from the Foreign Office in livestream. Fifteen from Iraq. This is the first time that the number remains below 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u115	The day isn't over yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u116	The day's over. We're done for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u117	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u118	I didn't see any questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u119	I couldn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u120	I suggest that we continue with the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u121	There will be a plenary tomorrow. You can always submit questions. I'm not standing in the way of asking you a question. I'll be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u122	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u123	The lying quality there at night... About the scholarship students, I can tell you that the project is ongoing. If accepted, the project will enter into force in the following academic year. There will be no retroactive effect. It's done by royal decree. So that is a matter for the next few days when I will present the project to the government. It was done. However, there were some discussions with the IF. The project has therefore gone over and over again. The case is now cleared and closed. It'll be for the scholarship students. Mrs De Coninck, I would also like to inform you that the current figures for the time being indicate that there is no significant reduction in the number of students' applications after the fee has been completed. So it's not true that their numbers have fallen. The number of regularization applications has fallen considerably, as you probably read. However, the number of students has not decreased. The future exemption for only the scholarship students seems sufficient to me. The fee does not therefore seem to stand in the way of internationalisation. At the request of not only the Flemish government but also some other state governments, we will exempt those scholarship students from the next school year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u124	Do you have an idea of their number in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u125	Exempting all students costs 1.5 million euros, exempting scholarship students is estimated to cost 450 000 euros. Is that 215 euros or 160 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u126	That's 215 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u127	I think it's 160 euros. No, it's 215 euros anyway. If you divide 450 000 euros by 215, you will get the right number. It'll be about 2,000 students. This year, of course, we will get that amount. There will be less revenue next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u128	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am glad that a solution has been found and that it is recognised that it is not good not to exempt scholarship students. It is good that this will be corrected as of next academic year. I still regret that it cannot be given retrospectively for this year. I know it already happens; in some cases it can be given. Why it doesn't happen retroactively is a mystery to me, but I'm glad it's happening for those who start next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u129	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u130	Mr President, Secretary of State, Article 11 of the Reception Act of 12 January 2007 provides for the possibility, in exceptional circumstances, of drawing up a compulsory distribution plan by royal decision after consultation in the Council of Ministers. Until now, no such possibility has been used; attempts have been made in the past, but they were then destroyed by the Council of State. That was about the spread of asylum seekers. Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked you to answer the following questions. Is there still a preference for a voluntary distribution of asylum seekers? We also call for a balanced distribution of asylum seekers, if possible on a voluntary basis, for example on the basis of targets. If it is necessary, if a lot of municipalities remain behind or do not cooperate, we have no problem making this mandatory. What initiatives have you taken to promote such a voluntary but balanced distribution? What contacts have you had with the local authorities? Are local authorities also consulted in advance when a private partner wants to start receiving asylum seekers? What input can and should a board have in this? With regard to Corsendonck, I have been told, among other things, that they were not informed until just before the award. Private initiatives are sometimes emerging that are directed directly at the government, while local authorities are not aware of the fact that a private partner offers shelter, sometimes for 500 people, which has a certain effect on the municipality. I therefore believe that it is important to consult the local authorities in good time. Are there municipalities and OMCWs that do not have a LOI or a reception centre? If so, which one? In the meantime, I have found the list of 21 municipalities in De Standaard, and I have that list with me. Is that list still correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u131	The list I'm carrying isn't right anymore either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u132	But perhaps you can tell us which municipal authorities have already taken steps and which may still be in the process. How do you really want to convince the municipalities that are not doing anything at the moment, last week, to provide shelters for Mechelen? For us, I'd prefer to volunteer, but if I have to, it's mandatory. If you need to use an obligation to spread asylum seekers, when do you want to spread them? What criteria do you want to apply? Has there been any consultation in the government on this? An agreement has not yet been reached, otherwise we would have already known it. Is there a meeting going on? What criteria do you want to base yourself on?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u133	I will not repeat all the questions that have already been asked by my colleague. I think she has concentrated on the story of the distribution plan for asylum seekers. I do not want to repeat here today what we discussed yesterday afternoon. You know that the sp.a has tabled a proposal on the distribution of recognised refugees, to make them compulsory for at least two years if they need support. I would like to know your opinion on that. Your staff did not reply to that proposal yesterday. It was Mrs Sarah Smeyers who replied on behalf of the N-VA. I would have liked to have heard your reservations about that. I had also asked a question about the private partners in the shelter. Can you answer me that? There is a lot of protest in coastal communities where barracks are located, which are now being assigned a lot of asylum seekers. How do you intend to deal with that in the future? How are you trying to channel the displeasure and come to a workable story?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u134	The facts are well known and should no longer be outlined. My question is whether a municipality will be informed long enough in advance when a reception centre will be opened in its municipality. The main issues discussed are the larger reception centres. What is the situation at the moment with regard to the capacity utilisation of the local reception initiatives, the LOIS? How is it dealt with by local authorities who do not want to receive or accept additional asylum seekers? Are they still encouraged, as you have done in the past, to do so anyway? If so, in what way? Can you give me more details on the places that will be made available through the public procurement procedure? What kind of places are those? Where will they be located?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u135	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the government indicated that it is working on a distribution plan for asylum seekers. What's the status? What criteria are used to determine which municipalities have to accommodate how many people? What happens to municipalities that do not want to cooperate? Is a distinction made within the distribution plan between the partners who organise the care, such as a LOI or an NGO, or is that not relevant to you? Are there any proposals to spread the recognised refugees across our territory? Yesterday we discussed this on the basis of Mrs Monica De Coninck's proposal. Do you think it's legal to do that? What is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u136	Mr President, last week, in connection with the distribution plan, it was agreed within the government that we should continue to work in the interkabinets working group to discuss the simulations. We want to land at the beginning of December. We need some time for that. I cannot say anything about the parameters, because no decisions have yet been taken. Nor can I give lists of places where a LOI has been set up or not. The questions date from a few days to a week ago and I would like to avoid saying here that a particular municipality did not set up a LOI, which is perhaps the case in the meantime or that a LOI has already been notified. I may be able to deliver that information to the present day, but I must pay attention to that, because there may be another reception initiative next week. I can say that the majority of the municipalities want to make efforts. The governors are very committed to this, because I believe that all the governors are driving the municipalities to take initiatives, and that is a good thing. In West Flanders it is all municipalities and in Antwerp as well. In Flemish Brabant, I think there was only no shelter in Bever, but that is a tiny municipality. In Limburg only Herstappe has no reception initiative, a municipality of about 80 inhabitants. So the vast majority of them are in full swing. On the Walloon side, the number of municipalities taking initiatives is slightly less, but almost daily new offers are being made, so I am absolutely not pessimistic about this, quite the contrary. Many municipalities, regardless of the political colour of their administrative colleges, are making efforts or have reported that they want to make efforts. However, that is not enough. With such initiatives we open 1 600 to 2 000 or perhaps even 4 000 places, but if we need 1 000 new places per week, the current offer will be full after four weeks. The city councils have to sign a lease. Fedasil's coming over for a screening. That screening can already be done by means of photocopies that are sent through. Fedasil doesn't have time to visit all LOIS and examine its quality. In order to speed things up, this is now done via photocopiers. However, the leases must be approved by the OCMW Board and the permanent agency. In other words, it doesn't happen overnight to suddenly open three apartments in a municipality. In any case, we are in full swing, and that is a positive point. However, we have not yet landed. I understand that some certainly want to set targets in an initial phase. This seems to me to be the most sensible thing, but what will be the situation at the beginning of December? The coming weeks are very difficult in terms of care. The campsites where people are staying will close by 15 November. Those people need to be housed somewhere else. At the moment, the situation is very precarious. I will go back to the government on Friday with a package of measures to provide places, but by 15 November I will have to deal not only with the influx, but also with 1 700 people who have to leave the campsites in the Ardennes. Those campsites close during the winter to prevent the pipes from freezing. These are all very practical matters, but this is how I try to show that we are concerned about them. However, these operational reasons can put us in trouble. We will do everything we can to find a solution on Friday. I have just explained the award to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. There are 2 200 places awarded to Corsendonk-G4S, Senior Assist and Bridgestock. I shall then come to the compulsory distribution of recognised refugees. I understand from yesterday's debate that there are some legal questions to be asked. An opinion is now being requested from the Council of State. Let's wait for this advice. A few days ago, the preliminary conclusions became known from Strasbourg, if I am not mistaken, claiming that this is contrary to the right to free movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u137	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u138	Your proposal would certainly solve a number of things, don't worry. I'm not necessarily against it, but if it's not legal, then it's not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u139	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have received an answer to a number of questions and not to a number of other questions. I would urge you to consult with the OCMWFs. Local authorities are not always aware when private partners have applied to the federal government to open shelters. Sometimes they're involved way too late, with the example of Corsendonk. I went there to talk about the refugee crisis and I was told that they were not contacted until the evening before the decision was taken at the Council of Ministers. That should be possible in the future. Municipal authorities are effectively doing their best and that support should be maintained. So as much as possible consult with the municipal authorities. I do not want to talk specifically about Turnhout, but if one sees that there is already a shelter, that Arendonk is around there, that there is a LOI there and that there are additional places, which is not a problem in itself, then it is still important to consult people in time and not to place them for facts. Secondly, I understand that there is still work to be done on writing scenarios and examining the criteria to be used. However, it is important to take account not only of the number of inhabitants but also of the situation of some cities and municipalities following the recognition of refugees. It will then be seen that many refugees are effectively moving to the centre cities and large cities and are under the responsibility of the OMCW. Instead of calling for a compulsory distribution, Mrs De Coninck, and thus countering the right to free housing of recognised refugees, I also think it is important to take into account the number of wage-earners in the reception scheme for asylum seekers. After all, we know that this category has a large number of refugees. Mr Secretary of State, I agree that, if necessary, you will give me the figures later on, or tomorrow, with regard to the OMCWFs which do not yet have a single reception centre or LOI on their territory. You may already be able to give today's figures, because, of course, I will take into account that they reflect last week's situation. Today's situation may have changed by next week, because it is constantly evolving. I know that we have to be careful with these figures and that we have to assess the situation at a specific time. Those figures are good for me too and may be added to the report, so that you do not have any additional work to request them. Then we have those figures. Mr Secretary of State, I continue to insist that we really work on this basis, including with the municipal authorities. There must be a balanced distribution. We are asking for this in a European context. It is therefore logical that we should also apply this in Belgium. If one gets a piece from the municipal authorities one can still do a lot. We're gonna need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u140	Mr President, I am not going to repeat everything. I have quite a bit of experience, since I've been on the counter for a number of years. There are good and bad lawyers. In my opinion, bad lawyers are people who seek 37 good legal reasons why something can't be done. A good lawyer is a creative thinking person who seeks good legal reasons to solve problems in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u141	I totally agree with that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u142	I know that all sorts of things, legal texts and statements are now being waved around. I believe that there is still some margin if we are honest with this. After all, no right is absolute. For the sake of clarity, I do not want to rape the international rules of law, but I do want to strike balance and balance with a view to achieving good results, both for the individual refugee and for our own municipalities and for their own support, also with the concern to continue to guarantee that support in the long term. Mrs Lanjri asks to take into account the number of wage-earners, poverty and so on. One can develop 101 criteria and one will always find something in each municipality: one because it is on the coast, the other because it is in the hills, another because there are many poor people or because the large houses in Brasschaat and Shield are not suitable for refugees. There are arguments that often, with the virtue of hypocrisy in mind, it is not necessary to accept a number of things. Let's be honest about that. We need to find a simple, acceptable criterion that is very objective and applies to everyone. I have made an offer to think about this and to engage in a dialogue. We'll see what the future brings. In the meantime, I have also experienced that perseverance often recompenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u143	Mrs De Coninck, you may of course defend your proposal, but we must be careful not to confuse the distribution plan for the recognised refugees in your proposal and, in this case, the distribution plan for the candidate refugees. I do not think there are any legal objections to the latter, which might be there with your proposal. There are no legal objections, but perhaps social. Mrs De Coninck spoke about the support. That is something we must be careful about, Mr Secretary of State, because the mayor's statements express certain views. I myself experience locally that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find LOIS on a voluntary basis. People are always very hospitable and open, but when people ask about what I have been doing for a month or people are willing to rent their homes to asylum seekers, it becomes a little more difficult or there is always a reason not to. Although you have so far made good efforts to continue to do so on a voluntary basis, I am afraid that we are moving towards a compulsory distribution plan on individual reception places. However, the influx is of such a nature that one should also continue to focus on the larger centres. From the point of view of a local mandator or mayor, it is completely understandable that it is never pleasant to have to defend such a thing on his own territory. However, we are faced with a collective responsibility and no one will benefit from spreading fear messages or inciting them. We must think on a large scale and, above all, continue to focus on the larger centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u144	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with Mrs Lanjri that good communication with local authorities is, of course, obvious. There have been so many stories popped up in the media, not just from Koksijde, just to be clear. The communication and consultation between Fedasil and the local authorities can be better here and there, because there is resentment. The responsibility will be shared in any case, but it is and remains a focus of attention. With regard to the LOIS, if I am not mistaken, the VVSG still has a list. I don't know how frequent it is updated, but I've certainly seen a card and statistics. If there is no LOI somewhere, but an NGO that provides shelter, does that make so much difference? Is it still important to have a LOI? How do you see that? Finally, on Mrs De Coninck's proposal, we discussed this judgment in detail, and I stand by my position: I see not only legal objections, but also political-social ones, because it gives the impression that cities are no longer able to cope with the number of recognised refugees. It also runs counter to the free movement of persons. People will always look for the cities where there is most employment, where there are most vacancies, and that is not in Zichen-Zussen-Bolder. That's what the city center is all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u145	In West Flanders there are more vacancies than in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u146	Mr President, on the subject of the LOIs and NGOs, nobody needs anything now, because there is no compulsory distribution plan yet. All this will be charged, asylum efforts made in the past will of course also be charged. A municipality where there has never been an asylum centre will, as soon as it becomes mandatory, have to do more than a municipality that has been doing something about shelter for years. Then it does not matter whether the own OCMW intervened or not; an asylum centre in the municipality is an asylum centre. We are working on this and we are looking at how to calculate it. That is a serious exercise, but I think we will find a solution, at least I hope so. I would like to say a few words about the consultation with the local authorities. There is indeed a lot to be said about this. Firstly, for the sake of clarity, a consultation is planned with the VVSG and the French-speaking and Brussels counterparts of the VVSG, at the end of next week or the following week. That comes to their question and that is, among other things, about the compulsory distribution plan. They have questions about that. That consultation is planned and will then take place; it could not be done sooner. Secondly, Minister Jambon and I visit many municipalities where asylum centres open. We have been in Westakker, Leopoldsburg, Houthalen-Helchteren, Hechtel-Eksel, Lanaken the mayor had also been there at Koksijde, Sijsele and Lombardsijde. We continue to visit and our planning for the coming weeks is fairly tight. It is also important that we pass them. Thirdly, yesterday there was an important day of study for which all the mayors and chiefs of the newly opened centres were invited. There were 120 people present. I think most of them were satisfied when they went out. I'm getting that signal from different angles anyway. It was about security and the agreement protocol with the police, with Fedasil and with the partners. Fourthly, this week, and otherwise next week, I come up with some sort of playbook about the method that one can use when opening a center in a municipality. That's meant for the local authorities and it's almost done. Hopefully it'll finish today, or else it'll be for the beginning of next week. That is four important points. In connection with the consultation with the local authorities, I have been asked whether this can be reported on time. First of all, when someone sees a Fedasil van driving in his village, I usually get a phone call. Apparently they're not very keen to be seen right now, Fedasil's vans. When Fedasil gets something in, it makes a place visit. Fedasil makes dozens of place visits a week. That's what four people are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u147	Anonymous cars do that, don't they?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u148	They have cars marked "Fedasil" on them. In the long run, those people have to drive anonymous cars. I think something like that goes a little far. What I'm telling you now is reality. I get a phone call from people who say they saw a Fedasil van and they ask me if I want to open a center there. It's happening really fast. The mayor's been notified before I am. Those people have plans for place visits. They don't tell me where they visit every time. Nine out of ten times it turns out to be for nothing, but okay. Fedasil arrives in a village and the people there fear that there will be a shelter. I'm just saying, it's happening really fast. The mayor contacts our cabinet, or other cabinets of the same political obedience, to ask what's happening and they don't know anything about it. De facto, however, it is often a false alarm. I've got to be careful with those terms. I'm just saying, very often, no centre will be opened there. Excuse me, I take that term back. Secondly, mayors are called before the decision of the Council of Ministers, either by me or by Ellen Verhozen, my chief of cabinet. That has always been the case so far: it is reported before the Council of Ministers' decision. In 2010, under Secretary of State Courard, that never happened. We'll do it now. We only do that when the consultation with the chiefs of the cabinet has gone through the whole process and everything is okay. The mayor's gonna get a call. We are not calling anyone to call again the next day that no political agreement has been reached and that the centre will not open. I think we should not inform the mayors until it is certain that it will continue. That is often only a few hours before the effective decision at the Council of Ministers. Thirdly, with regard to the procurement of the private sector, I admit that it has not always been done as it should. However, I also understand Fedasil. It is tendered to a private partner, who is obliged to contact the local government. It's in the tender. They do, but in what way? Then the mayor calls me to ask me exactly what it's about and how it can't be done. That award's under way. It is an open invitation to tender, so we must be careful to interfere. Then Fedasil says it's tendered and it's their responsibility. If Fedasil should do the same, then there should be no tender, because then that means extra work. Fedasil already has so much work to do and doesn't know where to start first. I understand that, too. For the record, the mayors of the tender are also called by me or by my chief of the cabinet. However, discussions with a number of private partners have failed. Then we have to ask ourselves how we can improve that. I don't think Fedasil should take over. That is contrary to the rules of public procurement. We're writing to the private sector, so the private sector has to do it right. After all, they are paid for that. That is a point of discussion. I understand that. For the mayor of Herselt, that's very annoying. He's right. The private company didn't say anything at first and now says they won't, because they're not interested anymore. What can we do? The contract has been awarded. They're saying they're not opening anymore, because there's too much cost. We'll start infringement proceedings. That's what's in the call for tenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u149	When does the first one open?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u150	It's already open. Two of them are already open, but I forgot where exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u151	Colleagues, the Secretary of State has to leave at 12:30, and I understand that another meeting will take place here at 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u152	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 6776 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u153	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as we discussed last week in this committee, the European Commission is considering establishing a common list of safe countries of origin in order to further harmonise national asylum policies. The development of either a national or a European list is provided for in the so-called Procedures Directive 2013/33. The presumption is then that the asylum-seeker's country of origin is presumed to be safe for the asylum-seeker. In order to obtain an international protection status, it will have to reverse this presumption with particularly convincing factual and individualized elements during an asylum procedure that is now accelerated. The question of the objective criteria used to establish such a list is therefore fundamental since these criteria will influence the decision and therefore the life of the asylum seeker. According to various documents produced by the European Commission, one of the criteria proposed to qualify a country as safe is the rate of recognition (European average) of the last twelve or twenty-four months. In other words, if this rate of recognition at European average level is low, then this would be an indicator that the asylum-seeker's country of origin does not experience persecution or serious harm to the lives of persons. Another important criterion would be whether the country is a candidate for membership of the European Union. However, it would appear that the recognition rate on which European bodies would refer to a country as safe refers only to decisions taken at first instance. In other words, international protection obtained through recourse is not included in the recognition rates compiled by the European Commission. This omission is surprising in that it is reasonable to believe that many asylum-seekers are granted international protection status in all countries of the European Union, in second or third instance, thus increasing the total recognition rate. This is all the more true since many European countries have introduced, at national level, lists of safe countries mechanically reducing the rate of recognition at first instance. We can also question what this European average of first instance recognition rates represents, when we know the huge differences between European countries, with sometimes deficient bodies which generate at first instance a high rate of rejection of asylum applications, thus lowering the European average of recognition of countries of origin. In other words, an average of recognitions at European level really makes sense only in a fully harmonised European asylum system over time, where the bodies take the same kind of decisions. This is still far from the case today. Moreover, the criterion of candidate for membership of the European Union to qualify a country as safe raises questions. Indeed, if these countries are still candidates, it is precisely that they do not meet all the criteria of the rule of law and the Copenhagen criteria, such as Turkey. Hence my five questions, Secretary of State. What are all the criteria currently proposed by European bodies to develop a list of safe countries of origin? Could you confirm to me that the "recognition rate" criterion for determining a country's security will include figures from the first instance as well as from all appeal bodies at national level? If not, for what reason(s)? What is the meaning of the indicator called "European average of recognition rates" to describe a country of origin as safe, when we know the huge differences in the asylum systems of European countries? Do you think that the "applicant country" criterion is relevant? I am thinking in particular of Turkey, which is now the main access route for refugee candidates. We know that the Kurds, who constitute an important minority there, are now targeted by the Ankara regime. Finally, what is the Belgian position in the European Council on these criteria proposed by the European bodies to qualify a country of origin as safe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u154	Mr Hellings, the Belgian Government's position is as follows. The evaluation should be carried out on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Procedures Directive and on the basis of an in-depth study of situations in the countries of origin, if possible carried out by the EASO (European Asylum Support Office) or the European Commission, as was the case when the list of safe countries of origin was drawn up in Belgium. Secondly, the recognition rate and the fact that a State is a candidate for accession to the European Union are put forward by the Commission as elements of the evaluation. However, the government does not consider these criteria to be crucial. They are not mentioned in the Procedures Directive as elements for evaluation and can be considered as factors among many others. They must be measured in the light of the conditions set out in this Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u155	Mr Secretary of State, I am reassured that, with regard to the criterion "candidate country for accession to the European Union", you are making a difference and that you are aware that a State such as Turkey can be a problem and must receive the greatest attention from the asylum authorities in Belgium. However, you did not reply to me about the average rate for the first instance and not about the decisions taken as a last resort.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u156	I answered that question. The recognition rate is not a crucial element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u157	What other criteria will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u158	The criteria in the Procedures Directive. The recognition rate and the fact that a State is a candidate for membership of the European Union, for example Turkey, are put forward by the European Commission as elements of the assessment. But the Belgian Government does not consider these criteria crucial. They are not mentioned in the Procedures Directive as evaluation criteria and can be considered as factors among many others, but are not assessed in the light of the criteria laid down in the Procedures Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic255x.u159	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 70, by Mr Philippe Pivin 7110 by Mr Wouter De Vriendt have been converted into written questions.
