ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u1	Questions Nos 4661 by Mr Geerts and 4956 by Mr Delizée, 5243 by Mrs Grovonius and 5551 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu have already been dealt with at a previous committee meeting. As Mrs Van Camp will not come, I give the floor to Mr Geerts for his question on line 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u2	Madam Minister, last month we sat together with JOKA for a discussion on the Kempen railway records, hence perhaps also Mrs Van Camp's questions. One concerns electrification of the Herentals-Mol line. Together with the mayors of Kempense, I am somewhat concerned about the investments on that line. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on electrification together with Mr Van den Bergh. I have the following specific questions. What happens to the planned investment in electrification of line 15? I think that is one of the last unelectricized lines in our country. Is that true or are there others? What is the current cost of electrifying that line completely? Do you have any figures on how to operate the line? How many travelers does the Iijn serve on a weekday? In the debate with the mayors, the question arose as to whether the delays on the line were due to defective equipment. Is there a study on the commuters' travel behaviour on Line 15? After all, the mayors have little insight into which way travelers take and how. Finally, what is the result of a missed switch?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u3	At the time when the first savings were made for SNCB and Infrabel, the project for the abolition of the Brabant motorway was already very advanced. Savings were sought at that time on projects which had not yet been sufficiently developed. I understand the frustration caused by the fact that the works in Herentals and Turnhout, towns with 28 000 and 42 000 inhabitants respectively, are put on hold, while the works in Brabant, a village with 1 390 inhabitants, can continue. Once the new multi-annual investment plan for the period 2015-2019 has been drawn up, it will be clear which budgetary envelope is available for the abolition of any consideration. The abolition of consideration takes place on the basis of various considerations. In addition, the necessary budgetary resources should be available and agreement should be reached with local authorities on the desired approach. On the line Herentals-Mol-Neerpelt-Tielt only the route Mol-Neerpel has to be electrified. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 38 million for Infrabel. Railways No. 58 Gent-Eeklo, nr. 82 Aalst-Burst, nr. 86 Ronse-De Pinte, nr. 122 Geraardsbergen-Melle and No. 132 Charleroi-Couvin are also non-electricised railway lines. Since the existence of the new transport plan and until the end of August 2015, there have been nine incidents on the Lier-Mol-Neerpelt-Hasselt connection, due to defective diesel equipment, with a total delay of 860 minutes. Statistically speaking, it's an incident a month. The station of Herentals is located on a junction of railway lines. Its central location on the regional rail network in Kempen is a major attraction. Not only does the station of Herentals serve the city itself, but it is a departure and arrival station for travellers who live in the surrounding municipalities within a radius of 3 to 15 kilometers. Herentals has travelers who live in Wolfstee, Bouwel, Nijlen, Olen and Geel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Together with the local mayors of Kempense, we will examine what actions we can take to ensure that the electrification is continued. You report that the plan costs 38 million euros. However, it is still unclear to me whether the plan will be implemented effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u5	Madam President, Minister, we have spent a great deal of time in the first year of the legislature on SNCB and perhaps we will have to devote a great deal of time and energy in the coming months. However, we must not lose sight of the other aspect of your powers, namely road safety. On the contrary, when we see that today, in 2015, two deaths per day are still to be regretted in our country, it is clear that we must not let that go. The federal government committed itself in the government agreement to further reduce the number of road deaths by 50% by 2020 compared to 2010 in line with the European targets. For Belgium, this means a reduction of 420 road deaths compared to 2010. In order to achieve this objective, anyone who looks at the figures will have to agree with it. The coalition agreement also provides for a number of measures to further reduce the number of deaths, as well as the number of serious injuries. The increasing number of victims among pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists must also be reversed, according to the government agreement. In 2014 there were 715 road deaths. According to the BIVV, the easy measures have already been taken, with significant benefits for road safety. This means that we really need to take more decisive action now. There is certainly room for improvement. According to the last traffic barometer of the BIVV, the first figures for 2015 are positive. The number of fatalities is falling by 2.9 % compared to the same period last year and the number of injuries is falling by 9.3 %. What plans are on the agenda for the coming year to further improve road safety? I would also have liked to have been given a timing and specific measures concerning weak road users and motorcyclists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u6	Dear colleague, the government supports the European target of halving the number of road deaths by 2020 compared to 2010. The trend is positive, thanks, among other things, to a stricter sanctioning policy and the efforts of the control services. Nevertheless, additional measures are certainly needed to achieve this objective by 2020. Firstly, I would like to follow the sanctions policy further and take additional measures. There must be no impunity in traffic, not for foreign drivers and not by imposing sanctions. Secondly, I expect technology to help us. I am convinced that intelligent transport systems (ITS) have a great potential to increase road safety. The action plan you are asking for will take shape in a new edition of the States General of Road Safety, which I will organise with the BIVV at the end of 2015. All stakeholders are invited to this. Some measures and actions have been implemented either partially or in preparation for implementation this year or next year. There are, for example, the five measures to combat the impunity of unpaid fines. The Action Plan on Non-Insured Persons was further implemented. The ISA Action Plan was presented in this committee on 28 February 2015. My administration has begun to implement it, so that we become a precursor in Europe in this area. The Bill on Accidentology is further discussed with the various stakeholders. I would also like to give the alcohol lock a wider application, also preventively. As stated in the coalition agreement, my main focus is on the alcohol offenders and speed offenders. In this context, it is important to evaluate the recent cross-recidivism measures for the six most serious traffic offences and to look for the most effective means of preventing repeated offences. The police also give priority to this, in addition to the safety belt and the use of the mobile phone or other devices on the steering wheel. Speed and alcohol are still too often at the root of accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists. In view of the increasing use of bicycles, drivers and truck drivers need to be double vigilant for weak road users. I am thinking, for example, of the blind spot accidents. Some recent heavy rear-end collisions with lorries on motorways should also draw our attention to the consequences that monotony and distraction may have behind the wheel. That is why I expect a lot of technological tools to prevent accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which contains many elements and commitments. I think that is also necessary, given the figures. Unfortunately, we are still dangling in the second half of Europe's peloton on road safety. I believe that we need to take vigorous further steps to improve this. I certainly hear a lot of positive elements about ISA and our leading role in Europe. I would like to make the following comment. On one point, we are an exception in Europe. We are one of the few countries that does not have a system of points driving licences. The government agreement does not state that it will be introduced in the investigation into an even better approach to repeated crime. You have already referred to the cross-recidivism and we must indeed look at whether this has the desired effect. However, I think that a point system can raise the driver's awareness of his or her behaviour in traffic. I come to a second element. Alcohol and speed are certainly very important causes of road safety, but I would like to add the drugs problem. Police judges are increasingly pointing out that drugs in traffic are unfortunately beginning to play at least as important a role as alcohol used to do. We must therefore also be able to make greater use of the fight against drugs in traffic. You certainly have a partner in us to carry out your steps and plans further in order to achieve safer traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u8	Madam Minister, the site of the Mons station, which is, I know, the subject of constant concern in your head, has already been the subject of questions from me to you and has been the subject of sometimes surprising twists. RTBF, in general well informed given its statutes and its way of functioning, told us, at the beginning of the summer in July, that the savings decided upon by SNCB could have an unexpected impact on the development of the station's yard. I'll sum up and explain. Savings in the order of 3.6 million in 2015 could result in penalties in excess of this amount, namely 5 million. I quoted my source; in Latin, I would use the subjunctive because it is the word of someone other than the author. Is it true that this construction site may be at risk, since the contractual penalties incurred in the event of a stoppage of work could be higher than the savings, resulting in a disturbing effect for the development of the site? Some even mention, I repeat, a possible stoppage of the construction site. Can you, not reassure us, but tell us what's going on? What are the risks of a partial, total or temporary shutdown of the site in the course of 2015? What is the reality of these famous penalties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u9	Mr Cheron, I'll reassure you. As regards the work, SNCB, as contracting authority for the contracts, confirmed that it had taken the decision not to change the planning of the 2015 railway works. SNCB also assures me that the 2015 budget allows the execution of the works under its financial management as programmed. No construction stoppages will take place for budgetary reasons in 2015. The seven wharf tracks will be operational as well as the renewal of the Brussels grill switches. The question of compensation for postponing work is therefore not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u10	Minister, while I'm wondering about what was announced in terms of savings, I can, by interpreting very quickly, imagine that what was said about savings in 2015 is no longer entirely true, but that planning will carry these savings forward to the following years. This is a live interpretation, but I understand that there are no threats at this stage to the development of the site as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u11	Mr Spooren was not present to ask his question No 5631. Question No 5637 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u12	Minister, there are times when mechanical problems occur and train and passengers are immobilized for several hours. In the event of high heat, as was the case at the beginning of the summer, and without air conditioning, the situation can quickly become painful, if not dangerous, for some people of fragile health. Although emergency services do their utmost to ensure that passengers are in good conditions, some delays are sometimes relatively long. As a result, immobilized commuters are deprived of access to water. Have any studies been carried out to forecast stocks of water and food on trains, as is the case in France? Thank you in advance, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u13	Mr.Foret, SNCB is well aware of the difficult situations in which travellers find themselves when they are trapped in a train without air conditioning during periods of high heat or heating during periods of intense frost. According to SNCB, the option of embarking survival stocks on board trains has not been analysed in detail, as it considers it unrealistic, both logistically and economically. More than 3,500 trains operate daily in Belgium. Supplying them represents a complex logistical challenge, which requires an entire organization. The supplies to be stored on board the trainsets, for example for the 1,200 passengers of a double level convoy, represent a considerable volume which could not be found there because of the lack of a space designed for this purpose. These stocks are to be used only in the event of serious operational problems. Their expiry date can therefore be reached without having served. They would therefore be lost. According to SNCB, these supplies would have to stay in delicate conservation conditions. The trains parked are neither heated nor air-conditioned. This means that, faced with extreme temperatures in summer and winter, they would deteriorate rapidly. The cost of this organization would be enormous. For all these reasons, SNCB favours other runways, namely: the reliability of rolling stock so as to avoid breakdowns as much as possible and, in the event of a breakdown, to ensure that the train can continue at least to the next station; the further improvement of the operational processes in order to increase the efficiency of the emergency services in order to transport even faster, to fixed convoys, supplies located in the large nearby stations; and, finally, tow the train as quickly as possible by means of an emergency locomotive and, failing that, to organise the evacuation by transhipment to another train station. To be complete, I would point out that the organisation of SNCB does not differ significantly from that of neighbouring countries. SNCF also does not carry food on its local or regional trains. Only long-distance TGVs still have a bar car to supply, but it is operated by a private operator and does not have a stock to meet the needs of all passengers on such trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u14	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u15	Question No 5669 by Mrs Els Van Hoof is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you about this, which some seem to discover in November 2014 – it is in the archives of this Parliament – in July 2015 and again today. This is the ongoing negotiation on the future management contract, and in particular the so-called "large family" card. It is an old institution in this country, whose obvious raison d'être was highlighted last week. In November 2014 and July of this year, you were talking reassuringly, saying that it is a true rumour without foundation. But there is, as Mr Cornu has already announced before us, a willingness to review tariffs, a "tariff simplification". This word can mean a lot of different things. Tariff simplification consists of a desire to review tariffs, not only in the sense of simplification, but with probably, or possibly, changes. You said to me, "Don't worry, we're not going to touch the current large family card, at least not in its concrete modalities." Last week, the debate bounced back, especially through a response from your firm. The Chamber did not meet, we were unable to interview you live. It can be understood from this communication that the large family card is threatened or even deleted in the future. Since I wrote my two questions, something else has happened. It's life, every day something happens. This morning, things happened. But last Friday, if I understood a Belga dispatch that I have in front of me – it's always more prudent – you met the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking representatives of the League of Families and you gave them a speech that they themselves described as "relatively reassuring". I confess that, when I read the dispatch, what has been reported, I do not see only the positive side. Maybe it's a professional distortion. I read that there will be a simplification of the tariff schedule through the integration of large family reductions into other tariff formulas. I also see the negative implications of this, for example the disappearance of the large family card. That's how I understand it. Like the League of Families and its Dutch-speaking counterpart, I can also understand from what is said that we not only make the card disappear but also play over the week and the weekend, namely to distinguish and prefer the weekend rather to ensure the maintenance of a number of family-related discounts, but not necessarily to the large family card. I think it was useful to recall what the large family card is and what it allows in terms of socio-economic, socio-cultural and socio-professional integration. In addition, the most important objective of SNCB – and I hope it will be one of the strong elements of the management contract – is to make rail attractive to certain categories of the population, especially families. Minister, beyond this statement that we have already read, what really is it? Yes or no will the large family card be maintained as it is? If not, what has been planned in terms of tariff recasting? Are you going to limit the benefits to weekends, to the detriment of the week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u17	Madam Secretary, I share Mr Cheron's indignation. I shall try to put my question a little short, because Mr Cheron has already mentioned many things and touched on the substance of the matter. The discount card for large families has existed since 1925. At that time, the argument was to introduce the map, that large families could move in a beneficial way. In response to the rumors that the card will be abolished, the De Standaard cabinet underlines that the aim is not to hit large families, but rather to be more consistent with today's reality. But every time we talk in committee about simplifying tariffs, that amounts to an increase in prices. As far as I know, fares have never been simplified so far without being increased, let alone more attractive to the traveller. We regret that large families who would otherwise opt for the train are thus encouraged to use the car, while especially in summer the roads to the coast are already full, which has an enormous economic cost, a often heard complaint from VOKA and other employers' organisations. Firstly, can the rate in question be increased as long as the current management agreement is in force? Secondly, what are the arguments, to dump the favor rate in the trash can? What's gonna replace it? How should young people interpret the simplification logic? Thirdly, what do you mean when you say that you want the measure to be more consistent with today's reality? Finally, is the abolition of the discount card for large families not contrary to the government's intention to get more passengers to public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u18	Mrs. Poncelet is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u19	Madam Minister, my colleagues have already outlined the problem in detail. In the press it was announced that the discount card for large families would be deleted. However, I have not read anywhere that this has already been effectively decided, hence my question. As Mr Geerts said, the map for a child-rich family is particularly interesting. If that card is abolished, it will be more interesting for large families to take the car. What percentage does the sale of tickets with the discount card for large families represent? What argument does SNCB have to remove that advantage? What is your view on the measure? What alternatives would SNCB offer to replace the discount card for large families?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u20	Madam Minister, the problem has already been outlined in detail, as well as the possible advantages and disadvantages. As Mr Geerts said, the map has existed since 1925. So we have to be very careful if we want to get into this. It may be appropriate to modernise that card, hence the following questions. How did the meeting with the Family Union and the Ligue des Familles go last Friday? In what way will the discount card be retained? That was announced. What benefits will the card offer and for whom? Will you also pay attention to smaller families? Today the discount card is intended for families with at least three children. How will this be worked out in the management contract? Do you have any targets on the number of families you want to get on the train? As Mr De Coninck has just pointed out, the car becomes more interesting than public transport once you travel with several people. I believe that, from the point of view of getting more people on public transport, we must pay sufficient attention to this. If one travels alone, it is often more financially interesting to take public transport, but as soon as one does so in group, it is much less so. I believe that we must certainly continue to make special efforts in relation to larger groups and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u21	Madam Minister, with regard to the large family card, I would like to join colleagues in asking for clarity, because if you want the population to be reassured, I think there is a need for clarity, which means that we must respond explicitly if this card is deleted, if it is maintained as such or if it is changed, in which case, in what sense will it be? I am extending the question to other specific fares, such as the Go Pass or the Rail Pass. Indeed, from the moment we are in a logic of what you call "greater tariff freedom for the SCNB", knowing that the allocation is decreasing, the less tariff freedom equation implies that tariff freedom means higher prices and the removal of special tariffs. I ask you if today you can say firmly that the Go Pass and the Rail Pass will not be threatened. In conclusion, a third question. These tariff increases, which are driven by your policy, the equation I mentioned, tariff freedom plus the reduction of staffing, will inevitably have a negative impact on mobility. Did you calculate this impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u22	Minister, the government has never hidden its willingness to review all of the tariff reduction policies in the context of greater tariff freedom for SNCB, as you have said and repeated before this commission. Unfortunately, with everything that has already come out, my colleagues have reminded us, and I will remind you briefly, that we have the clear impression, and even more than an impression, that the drastic reductions in the allowances on the price of tickets and on all users, in particular the most vulnerable users, should be postponed. We first had the reduction for temporary or part-time workers who will have to fall back on part-time subscriptions. We subsequently changed the system of refunds of unused subscriptions in favour of users. I'm not going to remind you of the decisions that have been made. Now, once again under the cover of the simplification of tariffs, you impose a tariff increase to the detriment of families and precarious workers. It is true that we are in favour of simplifying tariffs and limiting transport tickets, because it is true that it is very difficult for the user to be there. We supported you at this level. On the other hand, we do not support you at all in the way you proceed today. We believe that the best price should be automatically addressed to the person in the context of this simplification, which is not the case at the moment, at least. We are in the context of a non-negotiation. We do not have the impression that this policy of tariff change has been negotiated, neither with workers' representatives, nor with family representatives, nor with others. This method of work is somewhat uncoordinated and seems totally inadequate to us today. How many families have actually made use of the reduction granted by the large family card? What does the granting of these reductions represent in relation to the overall revenue from travellers? Are you committed to maintaining tariff reductions for families, at least equal, if not higher, to current reductions? We know very well that taking the train just to go to Ostend is very expensive for families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u23	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all these questions which allow me to clarify the issue of the large family card. I met last week with representatives of the League of Families, who also expressed, in this dossier, the wishes of their Dutch speaking Gezinsbond. As I have already said before this committee but also to these representatives, families must of course remain a priority of the public services for SNCB. Clearly, to encourage customers to take the train further, families must be at the heart of the rail offer. The changes mentioned in the press cannot be decided without an amendment to the management contract, which has not yet been negotiated or proposed. That is why I have been very clear about my political ambitions, confirming the maintenance of tariff advantages related to the large family card. The strategic vision is aimed at modernising public enterprises and promoting intermodality, including rail as a backbone. In this context, the revision of SNCB's tariff policy is only one of the elements that will be addressed in the negotiations on the upcoming management contract. The review should make it possible to simplify the current offer, which has grown over the years into a complex and unreadable aggregate for the customer. I would also like to announce that next Monday a meeting will be held with the associations involved in mobility in order to have an open and pragmatic discussion on everyone's needs and expectations in the context of the strategic vision and in preparation for future management contracts. I would like to conclude by showing this large family map published today by SNCB. Our exchange with the League of Families was very positive. I think there was a lack of understanding about the editing of this map. For TECs, it is the Family League that publishes the large family discount card. What is under negotiation today is the publishing, the printing of the card. I understand it's a symbol and it's important that he stay. The issue of the card will be done by the League of Families, which is requesting and which has the software and staff to do so. I stress that we want to favour the attraction of families in the railway. The League of Families is also asking for a discussion on the evolution of society. For example, there is the problem of recomposed families who today do not have access to this large family card. There are also families that are evolving. Parents whose three children leave the house continue to benefit from large family reductions. The League of Families is really open to discussion and I think there has been a distortion of SNCB's intentions. The discussion was very constructive and Monday's meeting will really be very important because all the stakeholders will be present. Everyone will be able to express their claims and objections. I also note that the card I'm talking about is valid from 2013 to 2023. You know as I do that in ten years the situation of families can change! I think that there has been maladministration with regard to the use of this card, which is very important and which represents an important symbol for the League of Families. This card, as well as the discounts for families, will continue to exist, but the issue of the card is likely to be taken over by the League of Families, as is the case today for TECs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I must admit, however, that the beginning of your answer did not reassure me at all. I will not comment on your communication; it is not my role. On the other hand, the second part was more interesting and more concrete. You started by saying that you were planning to maintain the tariff advantages of the large family card. You feel the precision of the terms, since you didn't say "all the advantages". Our role is also to ask what this means. When you take the card and talk about its impression by the League and more by the SNCB, it's a little more reassuring. As for the third part, it appeases us completely. Indeed, at the time when the large family card was created, the CD&V was the first party and the N-VA did not exist – funny season! They were neither the same families nor the same sociological situation. This is why family associations now demand greater contemporaneity. In this regard, you have cited the case of recomposed families. If I am well informed, young people no longer benefit from a discount as soon as they reach the age of twenty-five, but parents continue to be entitled to it ad vitam aeternam, even if they are in a prestigious office. Questions must therefore be asked in terms of modalities. You tried to be concrete, I am, too. I hope that this debate will have made it possible for this decision to be definitively established. However, you will understand that it is our duty to remain attentive. All this must be black and white in the management contract which will have to be negotiated and which will be the subject of many discussions in its concrete modalities. The attractiveness of public transport is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u25	Madam Secretary, you have sent an important signal today. It is clear from all the speeches made by my fellow Members here that, according to all the parties represented in Parliament, the abolition of the discount card would be a bad idea, since the large families must be kept and or attracted as customers of public transport. It is indeed important to take account of the new forms of society, and it would not hurt to modernise the discount card, just like the other examples you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u26	Madam Minister, I too am pleased with your reply and I share the reaction of my colleagues from the opposition, it concerns us all, it is an important item. Madam Minister, I wish you good luck, you are doing this in the right way, you are involving all stakeholders in the consultation. I regret all the commotion from the press releases, even though no decision has yet been taken and such matters must be dealt with in the management contract. It has certainly been positive that a debate has been held on this subject. I very much appreciate that the advantage formula is adapted to today's society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u27	Madam Minister, I am not always very enthusiastic about the answers given here in committee, which makes sense, but I am enthusiastic about the answer to the question. It is also very important that this is modernised in cooperation with the Ligue des Familles and the Family Union. This is certainly a plus, both for public transport policy and for family policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u28	Madam Chair, Minister, I am a little less enthusiastic than my colleagues. You're telling us there's a problem with the printing of the map. We do not worry about printing problems of the map. But you also tell us, for example, that the card should be removed from the parents of children who have grown up. Does this mean that, somewhere, you still open the way to changes in the operation of the large family card? If this change is applied, what other changes can be made? Or I misunderstood your answer, but it didn't seem entirely clear to me. What is not clear at all, since you did not answer it, is my other questions about the impact of tariff freedom and more specifically on other benefits such as the Go Pass and the Rail Pass. You did not answer that question at all. I'm forced to worry about the fate of the Go Pass and the Rail Pass. If you don't answer, I can only detect a willingness not to clarify these questions. And that worries me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u29	Minister, it's still a lot of trouble. Frankly, there have been a lot of very legitimate reactions. The communication did not indicate that the map would be printed elsewhere. Everyone was able to read the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u30	It's not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u31	I know it's not you! But there's just been some questioning. Normally, there is a new User Advisory Board. You're holding negotiations. We know that tariff freedom is a question because the past has shown that it is still at the expense of users. It's normal for people to get away very quickly. You have understood that this Parliament is very attentive to the accessibility of public transport despite the freedom of pricing or the simplification of tariffs. In conclusion, I think it is positive to review the concept of family for this large family card. As you said, and I'm completely joining you on this, today's families are no longer those of yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, the REGL, the "Grand Lille Express Network", is a project designed to offer the inhabitants of the Lille region a quick and efficient link between the urban centres of this metropolitan area. It responds to a growing need for travel between the Lille metropolis and neighbouring territories as far as Belgium. This project, led by the Conseil régional du Nord-Pas-de-Calais, is expected to lead to a link of more than 37 km to connect the Pas-de-Calais mining basin to Courtrai by 2030. This project is undoubtedly interesting and is an important lever for the development of mobility and the economic development of an area between Lille and Courtrai. Unfortunately, I find that the entity of Tournai was purely and simply forgotten, which is a major strategic mistake. Tournai must, for obvious reasons, be part of this project. On the one hand, the city is part of the Eurométropole, the territorial intelligence project linking Tournai, Courtrai and Lille. Many resources and energy are deployed to promote the economic development of this very dynamic area in which Tournai is an essential pawn. It should be noted that Tournai plays a major role in its life pool and has an important level of equipment and services, particularly in the field of education poles (artistics, paramedical, skills training, Internet trades, etc.) whose reach transcends borders. In addition to schools, many Belgian companies host French workers; 16% of the employment in the zoning of Tournai-Ouest is French. On the other hand, Tournai is an important crossing point for the Lille-Brussels link. The city is the logical connection (and this is confirmed in the figures) between the French city and the Belgian capital. To sum up, not taking Tournai into account in the REGL means missing out on a logical opportunity for important economic development. Minister, do you also share this analysis? Do you not think that, for obvious reasons of economic development, Tournai should be included in this new mobility project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u33	Madam President, dear colleague, as you say, this is a French project initiated by the Conseil régional du Nord-Pas-de-Calais. SNCB was not involved in the development of the study. SNCB was informed of the Grand Lille Express Network project in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region during the meeting of the Eurométropole Mobility Working Group which preceded the meeting of their Mobility and Accessibility Committee. A public consultation is currently under way in France. We look forward to feedback and feedback on this subject, which will certainly be discussed at the next meeting of the Mobility and Accessibility Committee. For SNCB, the two short-distance cross-border relations Courtrai-Lille and Tournai-Lille are of the same order of magnitude in terms of volume of travellers per weekday. There is, however, a difference in the reason for travel between these two relationships. Indeed, the share of home-school travel is higher on the Tournai-Lille relationship, while more leisure trips are observed on the Courtrai-Lille relationship. A study carried out by STRATEC in 2012 revealed that the supply of trains on both routes was sufficient. I have asked SNCB to be ready to participate in such studies. However, cross-border traffic needs to be developed according to actual needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, we're studying more in Tournai and having more fun in Flanders. This is an image that has not necessarily been developed to the right and left. This was also a question for Mr Reynders. It is obvious that, in this kind of debate, a certain political dynamism is also called for in order to ensure that we are heard. I'm counting on you and Mr. Reynders to get the message out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u35	Question No 5727 by Mrs Gantois is postponed. Question No 5738 by Mrs Vanheste is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u36	Madam President, Minister, last July you announced that the future management contracts for SNCB and Infrabel would be concluded in the first half of 2016. These documents are crucial for the future of the Belgian rail industry, since they specify how SNCB and Infrabel carry out the public service tasks entrusted to them, set the amount of State allocations and set priorities for quality and efficiency. Moreover, the Court of Auditors is organising an important audit mission on the current management contracts, which should in principle end as soon as the new ones are adopted. Therefore, it seems to me important to know what the procedure will be. Here I am asking you not about the substance, you have understood it, I am sure, but about how to do it. What will be the precise procedure for drafting these texts, in particular in terms of stakeholder consultation? Minister, can you clarify the process for developing management contracts? What will be the precise timetable? What stakeholders will be consulted in advance and how: Parliament, passenger associations, rail regulator, regional transport companies, social partners, regional governments, for example. So these are the method questions I wanted to ask you today about future management contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u37	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all, I must apologise to my good colleague, Mr Bonte. He had an interesting question about the dispute between Infrabel and SNCB. As mayor of Vilvoorde, he is, unfortunately, a privileged witness to this. More generally, I would like to ask you about the state of play with regard to management contracts and, of course, with regard to investments in the investment plan for 2016 and subsequent years. It's now the end of September 2015. It is very worrying that there appears to be still no investment plan, as will be seen from the answer. I have the same questions as Mr Cheron. What is the actual timing of the management agreements? Which partners will sit around the table during the drafting of the new management contract? Will there be a consultation of travelers' associations? During the previous legislature, we adopted a resolution stating that Parliament should be informed in good time about management contracts. Is that planned yet? When will the investments for 2016 and subsequent years be clarified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u38	Colleagues, according to the schedule I have set myself for the implementation of the strategic vision for Belgian rail, the new management contracts for Infrabel and SNCB will have to be concluded in the first half of 2016. Discussions are finalizing on the methodology used for the conclusion of these management contracts. The draft management contracts will be proposed by the companies that will be represented by their management committee during the negotiations. They will be required to submit the project for consultation within their company's strategic committee. Infrabel will also be required to consult potential candidates within the meaning of Article 47 of the Railway Code, namely mainly railway undertakings operating on its network or may be required to operate there in the future. On the government side, the responsibility for conducting the negotiations lies with me. I will be assisted by my administration. Parliament's involvement is also laid down by law: within the month following the official submission of a draft management contract, I will not fail to inform the Infrastructure Committee of the proposals on the table. The dialogues on the synergies to be developed between rail and other modes of transport will take place through the intermodal platform, which will include regional transport companies and SNCB, to which I have also asked to designate their representative. The creation of the investment cell is currently being prepared. In the first instance, the investment cell will be responsible for preparing the future multi-annual investment plan for the 2015-2019 period, which will take shape by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u39	Madam President, I thank the Minister. I understand that there are two parts. The first concerns the management contract and the second concerns investment and the unit. I understand that there will be an association of Parliament with a meeting in the Committee on Infrastructure in the month. As far as the intermodal platform is concerned...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u40	A letter was sent to the various regional transport companies as well as to the supervisory ministers to appoint their representatives for the investment unit and for the intermodal platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u41	Is the platform already installed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u42	We await the names of the representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u43	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. One of my questions was which partners might be consulted in addition. I believe it is important that the input of the passenger associations be taken into account effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u44	As we planned, we will hold discussions on the management contract, as provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u45	We haven't heard from Mr. Wollants. Questions No 5882 by Mrs Dumery, No 6052 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, No 6303 by Mr Lahaye-Battheu. Van den Bergh, No 5891 and No 5907 by Mrs Dumery and No 6054 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are postponed. Questions Nos 5914 and 5918 by Mrs Gantois and 5935 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions. Question No 5948 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u46	Madam Minister, I live in a border region where there is still a lot of agricultural activity, as in your region, I believe. This is where the limitations of driving licence G are sometimes faced. The licence G is valid only for journeys on Belgian territory between farm and field. However, in our country, and certainly with us in the region, there are farmers who have land in the Netherlands. I can imagine the same phenomenon occurring at the French border. Those farmers cannot, strictly speaking, work their Dutch land from the Belgian seat of their farm with their vehicles. Since July 2015, there has also been a specific driving licence for agricultural vehicles in the Netherlands, namely the driving licence T. I do not know why the letter T was issued. The licence T, like the licence G, is a national matter. This has already been discussed in the Netherlands. The Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment announced that in 2015 they would enter into consultation with the surrounding countries, so that the Dutch driving licence T would also be accepted in the neighbouring countries. On the Belgian side there is no possibility of crossing the border with agricultural vehicles with a valid driving licence. A solution to this is therefore absolutely necessary. According to European legislation, because in border regions, it is easy to look at Europe................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is not yet the case for the specific agricultural licences G and T, because the regulation concerns only categories AM to DE. Has there been any consultation with the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment on the validity of the Dutch driving licence T and the Belgian driving licence G? If so, what was discussed there? What were the conclusions? Will a solution be found to the problem? If the consultations have not yet taken place, will you take an initiative in order to find a solution for farmers in the border regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u47	The same thing is happening in my area. According to Belgian regulations, a foreign driver should not have a driving licence to drive an agricultural tractor in Belgium. There is no European driving licence regulation for agricultural tractors. Each country itself lays down its national rules on driving licences to drive an agricultural tractor, with a possible exemption for foreign drivers, as Belgium has done. Grosso mode applies the following rules to drive as a Belgian in one of our neighbouring countries. In Germany, a category B driving licence is sufficient. In Luxembourg the Belgian national driving licence G. France has changed the regulations very recently and from now on the driver must have a driving licence B in order to be able to drive an agricultural tractor. For the Netherlands, since the recent introduction of the T driving licence in the Netherlands, foreigners should in principle have a C driving licence to drive an agricultural tractor. The problem therefore arises mainly for the Netherlands. A first informal contact has already taken place with the Dutch administration to find a solution. By e-mail, my administration has obtained the undertaking that the driving licences G issued before 1 July 2015 will remain valid for driving an agricultural tractor in the Netherlands. Further contacts will be made to find a definitive solution, including for driving licences issued after 1 July 2015. In this context, I will also address an official letter to my Dutch colleague. The category of licence for agricultural tractors is a national category. The European Union Driving Licence Committee has already spoken informally about the creation of a European category of driving licences for agricultural tractors, but at present the European Commission does not wish to take a position on this. A provisional solution has now been found for the situation with the Netherlands, but for a final solution we still need to negotiate further and possibly conclude a bilateral agreement with the Netherlands on mutual recognition of licences for agricultural tractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u48	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for her commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u49	Madam Minister, I prepared my question on the guarantee of services at the end of August. This theme is important for the N-VA. Allow me to change the explanatory statement to my question, given the recent events in this dossier. The guaranteed service is clearly stated in the government agreement, but the federal government wants to give social dialogue a reasonable period of time to prepare its own proposal. The N-VA is in favour of a proposal that comes from the bottom up, supported by all partners, as opposed to a legislative proposal. When I drew up my question at the end of August, I was still optimistic. In an article in De Morgen Luc Piens said that he thought there would be a solution for the deadline at the end of this year. You've confirmed that deadline yourself a number of times. He said it would work. The proposal would be inspired by the French system. However, he pointed out that if the train traveller can leave in the morning, he must also have the assurance that he will still get home in the evening. Last week we read three other scenarios in the press. Immediately afterwards, we read negative reactions from the socialist union. That's why I'm a little pessimistic now. I wonder whether there will be a proposal at all on the provision of services through the social dialogue. In De Tijd, Mr Goossens literally said that he has no mandate to contribute to the guarantee of services. For us this is a clear signal that he does not want to participate constructively in the social dialogue. We therefore fear that no solution will be found in the social dialogue. Madam Secretary, are the scenarios leaked in Time, ranging from 11 % to almost 50 % of trains that will run? How will one select a scenario or a proposal? How are we going to determine which trains are running and which are not? What criteria will be used for this on strike days? Will this be shared between IC trains or between regions? How will rail passengers be assured that they will also get home in the evening? Do you have a proposal of your own if there is no proposal from the social dialogue in December?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u50	Madam President, Minister, I do not think we will agree on this dossier. I stand by my position for the last ten years and I hope that all parties in the government will stand by the position they have ever expressed here. This will be evident later on in the government decisions. My view is that the guaranteed or minimum service cannot work. That is also clear from what I have always heard here. A note has been published in the newspaper on the percentages, on the number of staff needed, on the number of seats that can be guaranteed and on the number of train kilometres. That's interesting, but those tables do raise more questions than they answer. What is a guaranteed service? Who should this service be guaranteed for? For all commuters who have to get to work or school? Does "guarantee" mean that people who go to work or school in the morning can also return effectively in the evening? With regard to the percentage of seats and the number of trains, has the various scenarios made an assessment of the number of passengers able to make a outward and return journey? So how many people would the service be effectively guaranteed? Depending on the choice of scenario, who will decide which trains will run? Does this depend on the staff coming to work or is it determined in advance which lines will be operated? When I look at the different scenarios, I see, for example, that in scenario 1, only the large axes would drive to Brussels. How is a traveler from Heist-op-den-Berg supposed to get to Brussels? He doesn't get to Brussels because he has to drive to Lier or Aarschot first and then switch. As far as labour law is concerned, are people who live in Heist-op-den-Berg and who do not attend their work or school illegally absent? Has that been taken into account? The train drivers have a training course per line. What about security? If there are a lot of people on the platform, will it be like in Japan, where everyone is pushed on the train? I welcome the fact that there has been a debate, but isn't everyone's conclusion that this will not work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u51	Madam Minister, according to the press, the proposals made by SNCB in the context of implementing a possible minimum service only reinforces our analysis of the impracticability of such a measure. SNCB estimates that it will only be able to offer a maximum of 580,063 places in place of the 1.4 million seats required during the week, i.e. just 40% of the places needed to transport users. This means, in practice, that SNCB should, where appropriate, requisition 43% of drivers, 43% of attendants, 75% of station staff, 90% of security personnel in Sécurail and 100% of passenger dispatchers. In addition, only the main routes linking Brussels and the two dorsal routes would be served. The proposals therefore prove that the introduction of a minimum service is impracticable in practice and can only lead to widespread dissatisfaction among users. They will have to travel under extremely difficult conditions, if not totally dangerous in terms of safety, given the inevitable cohue caused on the docks. You will agree, this would have the opposite effect to that envisaged by this government. Moreover, a demand for such a large number of personnel would de facto mean an end to the right to strike for railway workers, which is obviously unacceptable to us. Madam Minister, in view of the immense belief that you are bringing to the SNCB and to all the railwaymen to whom you wish to render their letters of nobility, I dare imagine that you are questioning their expertise and conclusions as to the impracticable nature of such a measure. Common sense would like you to abandon this ideological measure on the basis of the reality of the ground, clearly set out by the SNCB. So I will have only one question: are you going to give up this totally absurd minimum service or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u52	With respect to the minimum service or guaranteed service, I will not ask you to agree with the PTB. Perhaps, however, you will agree with the international conventions that Belgium has signed, which would already be a good start. The European Social Charter, ILO Convention 87 say that the right to strike is sacred – without using this term, but I am translating – and that the only limitation that can be made to it must relate to essential services. When are we talking about essential services? It's when there's a threat to health, physical integrity, life. We can understand that there is a minimum service for the army, the police, but not for rail transport, unless there are ambulances per train, but this is not yet the case. This limitation is clear. It is true that there is one exception: if the trade unions agree to a revision of this right to strike. We already know that trade union organisations do not want to give this agreement. The problem is that the government's agreement, to which you are very attached, says that if there is no union agreement, we will do it. It's written black and white in the government's agreement. This agreement openly flouts the international conventions that Belgium has signed. I ask you how you can justify the violation of these international conventions. A more incidental question, however, remains eloquent: the evolution of language between the "minimum service" and the "guarantee service". Now we are no longer talking about "minimum service" but about "guaranteed service", which means that this service is not minimal. Indeed, when we look at the three scenarios considered, we realize that the minimum term is not really adequate to qualify it. I take an example: in all three scenarios, almost 100% of Infrabel's staff must be present, which is not really a minimum. One wonders where the right to strike really is if all the employees of a company are obliged to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u53	Colleagues, SNCB is involved in the process chaired by HR Rail as part of the implementation of the government agreement. It is therefore within the framework of consultations between SNCB, Infrabel, HR Rail and trade union organisations that the terms of a service guaranteed in the event of a strike must be defined. Talks are still under way. If these contacts do not succeed, the government will take the initiative itself in accordance with the government's agreement. Since my arrival, the continuity of the service provided to SNCB has not been compromised by a breach of the Protocol of Social Agreement, with the exception of the actions on 17, 20 and 21 October 2014. These were three unannounced work breaks, involving 52, 57 and 81 employees respectively. All participants in these three unannounced work breaks were disciplined with a strict reminder. This disciplinary sanction was accompanied by the administrative measure of deduction of EUR 12.5 from the productivity premiums of each participant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u54	Madam President, Minister, you confirm that the government will take an initiative at the end of this year if there is no agreement from the social dialogue. I'm happy about that, too. I have also heard the statements made by my fellow Members. I think it's a little freaking that they're saying it won't work. Ladies and gentlemen, it does work in the other countries, let us not be naive. France and Germany introduce it, why wouldn't it work here? A public service that is not guaranteed is not worthy of public service. You are so protective of labour law, but what about the right to public transport? For the time being, the market has not been cleared. SNCB still has a monopoly and therefore the traveller has no alternative to making his move, not even those large families we agreed on earlier. Mr Van Hees, you are referring to a convention. You are well aware that there are exceptions in that convention for guards and the like, and that our country has been sentenced to the European Court of Human Rights for the strikes of the guards, which did not guarantee the regime of prisoners. I really hope it gets there. The N-VA has a proposal ready, as has already been said, and if strikes take place again in the autumn, we will not wait and submit our proposal earlier than the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, with regard to the protocol and the wild strikes, I would like to stress that, for example, the ASTB said that it is not bound by that protocol. That kind of distorts the numbers a little bit. Just the quick submission of the N-VA's draft law will throw oil on the fire, while today there is a protocol that works relatively well. More wild strikes will be created by laying down such legislative proposals. Everyone, of course, has the freedom to submit legislative proposals and discuss them in the Chamber. However, Mrs De Coninck, I would like to give you the following point. You're talking about France and Germany. Germany has had nine multi-day strikes over the past year, which has never happened before. In the last year, the German railways have been the most quiet in the whole of Europe. You also spoke of France. In France there is a guaranteed service that does not work at all. Sometimes there are trains. There is also a lack of information. It is, for example, about a train from Paris to Lyon, which is similar to a high-speed train, but not to urban transport around cities such as Paris. I would also like to talk about the callability. The figures for scenario 1 show that Infrabel has to call 87 percent of the staff. Who's gonna do that? Will you tax the municipalities again? Should the mayor send his policemen to Infrabel's staff to call them to work? I am absolutely prepared to discuss your proposal, but it will again burden the mayors and the police zones with a measure that does not work. I understand you need trophies in your trophy cupboard. However, if you use such a proposal to steer the country towards immobility, it is a bad trophy case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u56	Madam President, I fully agree with what my colleague has said. Minister, you are proposing a consultation on something that is impossible to implement. Your goal is to impose your ideology of minimum service, while everything shows that it is unfeasible, as we can see in France or Germany. For our part, we wish maximum service. Our goal is for users to be able to enjoy a service of maximum quality and for railway operators to be able to work in a framework of the same quality. But you propose the opposite. We absolutely cannot adhere to what you are developing. We know very well that the ongoing consultations will never succeed, for the simple and good reason – and we have shown you by the figures we have just produced – that this is unrealizable. You want to unilaterally impose a minimum service. All right! That's your ideological conception. But we will never be able to accept such a position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for your failure to answer my questions. I conclude that you don't give a shit about international conventions – nothing to do, if you prefer. I also assume that this is not a minimum service, but a clear attack on the right of railway workers to strike. I will reply quickly to my colleague De Coninck. Involuntarily, you corroborated my arguments by talking about prison guards. We are not going to open a discussion about them, but the criteria that prevent them from striking are precisely not applicable to railway workers. In a way, you demonstrate my thesis that Belgium does not respect international conventions. Thank you for your support of my argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u58	Madam Minister, the charges imposed in the absence of a valid ticket continue to cause many questions and stirs. If a traveller does not have a valid ticket today because of a defective ticketing machine, which unfortunately happens more often than is sometimes proposed, an additional charge of EUR 7 will have to be paid. In the first instance, the train escorts check whether or not the vending machine is effective. These devices could follow live which vending machines may or may not work. If the vending machine is not found to be defective or if the conductor cannot verify this with certainty, the on-board rate will be charged anyway. Sometimes it happens that a vending machine works according to the online information, but that certain functions do not work, for example if the vending machine has problems. This could lead to discussions. If a traveller does not have enough money to pay a ticket and the on-board fare, he should in principle receive a C170 finding of irregularity, which actually means a fine of 75 euros. For someone who wants to take a train in good faith, but did not get a ticket via the vending machine and then on the train that cannot pay 7 euros, that is anything but customer-friendly. In my opinion, SNCB should look at this in depth. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this problem? Is there a willingness to look for more customer-friendly solutions? Will you encourage SNCB to improve communication around the procedure in case of defective ticketing machines? What view do you have on the C170 determination? In what cases can such a determination be made? On previous parliamentary questions, you replied that the evaluation of the method of reimbursement of the on-board tariff is ongoing. Has that evaluation been completed in the meantime? If so, what are the findings? The test period of the new aircraft, the new handheld computers of the train escorts, the ITRIS units, ran until the end of July and a final evaluation was to be carried out afterwards. Thanks to these devices, a lot of passengers would be able to save the on-board fare. What did that test period show?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u59	A passenger must have a valid ticket when boarding the train. SNCB offers its customers the opportunity to buy their ticket at the counters or via vending machines, the mobile app, and Ticket Online. This allows a customer to buy a ticket just before boarding, without having to pass the window. The purpose of the on-board tariff is to reduce the number of cases of aggression on board, as well as to simplify the rules on how to conduct itself as a rule. With the roll-out of the new ITRIS devices, it will be possible to make a debit card payment from the end of this year, which has not been the case so far. SNCB has established a procedure to be followed when a ticketing machine is defective. SNCB is now improving the reimbursement procedure. The new ITRIS devices will synchronize via Wi-Fi, via 3G or 4G. The devices will have all the necessary information available in real time, including the defective vending machines. The tests with the new ITRIS devices are positive and the feedback of the users is processed to deliver the final version of the software by October. During October, the training starts, so by the end of 2015 each train guide will be in possession of the new aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that work is under way to make it more customer-friendly and that a number of procedures are being revised. These devices will offer a piece of the solution, so that you can also pay with a ticket on the train. I still have a hard feeling about the constant communication that the vending machines would have a high level of reliability. Unfortunately, on the ground, we have to note that this is often not the case. I believe that we must continue to pay sufficient attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u61	Madam Secretary, my question is about the garbage disposal in the stations. Since January 2014, SNCB has a new structure. Despite this, there are still some doubts about the issues for which either SNCB or Infrabel is responsible. One of these elements is the litter disposal of the railways in the station buildings. NMBS travelers throw a lot of litter in the underpasses, on the platforms and between the tracks. Several sources show that SNCB and Infrabel are arguing about this. The discussion is about the litter that accumulates on the tracks, between the platforms and in the stations. SNCB has an eternal inheritance service free of charge on the platforms and is responsible for the maintenance and cleanliness of the platforms. Infrabel controls the tracks. SNCB argues that the tracks themselves are the full responsibility of Infrabel. In addition, SNCB maintenance staff should not just go on the railways to clean up the garbage. Safety is indeed important. Infrabel argues that the litter does not come from its direct customers. In this way there is a ping-pong game going on between both companies about who is responsible for the litter. It only makes the litter disposal more difficult. I'm sure you'll know that a lot of people who are locally active are getting reports. Trash really keeps the citizens awake. Everyone likes the public environment to be clean. Meanwhile, the dirt remains on the tracks. This is anything but customer-friendly for rail passengers. The more dirt piles up, the lower the threshold for travellers to throw in new litter. The problem is only getting worse. Madam Secretary, could you explain the problem a little more? Which railway company has the task of removing the litter along the railways? Is it itself responsible for the execution of the contract or is it outsourced? In that case, to which companies? What persons have the authority to enter the tracks for the disposal of litter? What policy does the responsible company pursue with regard to the disposal of litter on the tracks? Are targeted clean-up actions organised? At what frequency? Is one acting proactively or acting after complaints? What are the annual estimated cost of the inter-tracked garbage disposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u62	Until 31 December 2013, the cleaning of the tracks at the stations and the platform edges was the responsibility of Infrabel, who employed personnel to carry out the work of the security function as the person responsible for the execution of the works, as it carried out this task on track that were in service. However, that security function is included in a list of functions reserved for the infrastructure manager. In the reform of the railway group on 1 January 2014, SNCB became responsible for those cleaning tasks. Infrabel's cleaning staff concerned was transferred from that date to SNCB's B-Stations Executive Board. However, the exercise of those specific safety tasks was not included in the SNCB safety management system. In order to find a solution, the Royal Decree of 9 July 2013 laying down the requirements applies to security personnel. Pending this final solution, one or more tracks may be temporarily removed from service, so that the B-Stations clean-up teams can work in complete safety. Cleaning policies vary widely from station to station, taking into account the number of passengers and the period of the year. For example, the tracks in the stations towards the coast are more frequently cleaned up during the summer months. (...) take place occasionally. Neither Infrabel nor SNCB gave precise figures of the annual cost of the disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u64	Madam Secretary, if one of the payment options of a coin or vending machine does not work, the vending machine will not be declared as defective. Travellers who only have a bank card pay the full on-board fare when the card does not work on the vending machine, because the coach's sales device is not aware of the fault at the vending machine. This is yet another anomaly: the failure of a vending machine has the perverse effect of having the passenger pay the on-board fare if there is no point of contact nearby. That is not a sign of customer friendliness. Madam Minister, is it true that train drivers do not receive a report of faulty vending machines when only one of the two payment options does not work, and then charge the on-board fare? If so, will a solution be sought? Can rail passengers recover the costs incurred as a result of that error?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u65	Madam President, Mr Geerts, I apologise for having a bilingual answer. Madam President, SNCB automatons have an average reliability rate of 98.2%. On the basis of the Bord Tariff, SNCB wanted to avoid any interpretation in the head of the attendant when applying the ticket price in order to avoid cases of aggression, which has also been declining since the introduction of the system in early February 2015. According to SNCB, it is not yet technically possible to take into account in real time the state of operation of the controller in order not to apply the €7 surcharge on the train. In the long term, SNCB wants to remedy this situation. A traveller who believes that he or she has paid the surcharge unjustly has the opportunity to apply for a refund. Statistically, SNCB has one intervention every two months per automaton. The replacement of the current train attendants' aircraft with a new model called ITRIS will take place gradually until the end of this year. In future, the train attendant will not have the authorization to disable the surcharge charged when purchasing a ticket on board the train. At present, the list of faulty machines is sent once a day to the units of the train escorts, which gives rise to many requests for reimbursement. Once the roll-out of the ITRIS devices will be fully completed, these devices will perform an automatic synchronisation of the updates of the faulty vending machines, allowing more accurate application of the on-board rate, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of requests for reimbursement. SNCB is currently introducing an automated processing of the refund instructions, which will enable a larger number of applications to be dealt with within a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The problem is, of course, the lack of synchronisation, which can lead to aggression towards the train drivers, because they were not informed of the failure to operate the vending machines. Let's hope the synchronization will help us get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u67	Questions Nos. 6015 and 6016 by Mrs De Coninck are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 6020 by Mr Cheron and 6071 by Mr Geerts have already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u68	Madam President, Minister, according to a report relayed by the press on September 3, SNCB sales agents would be subjected to inadequate working conditions. It was an internal report, Madam Minister, that highlighted this. You know how much I'm paying attention to this kind of thing. For example, there is a reference to poor organization of services and poor day-to-day management. The pace of work and lack of recovery appear to cause additional stress and fatigue problems. I would like to ask you this question in relation to the part of your strategic vision in which you refer to fairly ambitious productivity figures. I thought it was a first "strategic post-vision of the minister" test. I therefore did not resist the idea of asking you this question in relation to this internal investigation. I would like to hear your comments on this information, and in particular the fact that the internal investigation appears to have been modified as a result of the interpretation of the results, which raises questions. I would like to know the reasons for this change and your opinion on this methodology. More broadly, what conclusions do you draw from this survey on the working conditions of staff and in particular the sales staff of SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u69	Madam Minister, on 3 September we read in La Dernière Heure that there was an internal report on working conditions. The conclusion was that newspaper article that there are poor working conditions, insufficient time to recover and insufficient staff. On the basis of such a newspaper article, I think it is appropriate to ask questions here. Can you tell us more about the internal investigation of the working conditions of sales staff? How many people were effectively questioned and at which workplaces? As a counter-argument, reference is made to a lack of objectivity in the investigation, what are the arguments for this? If the report is valid and the conclusions are verifiable, what additional measures will be taken to remedy pain points such as lack of staff that prevent leave and compensation days from being taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u70	Madam President, contrary to what the mention CPS suggests, the report on which the press release is based is not an officially validated report. The author of the report has attached the CPS logo to the report on his own initiative; CPS has played no part in the drafting of the report. The study was initiated at the request of the Brussels Region Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work. The report was initially to be submitted to the president of the CPBW. SNCB is currently examining the objectivity of the report. If, objectively, it appears that organisational measures need to be taken to solve certain problems, SNCB will take them as the responsible employer. Our reports concern three stations in Brussels out of a total of 149 stations with staff managed by SNCB. The definitive findings and conclusions will therefore only be relevant for these three stations, which acquire a specific character by their location, their importance and the type of travellers who frequent them. These findings and conclusions cannot be extrapolated to the rest of the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u71	J'en prends note.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Now the report is about the sales staff. I certainly think it's a problem that someone used the official CPS logo. What if the report was about the working conditions of the security personnel, the report of which we recommended? I hope the incident will be investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u73	Madam Minister, your recent decision to grant traffic rights to Ethiopian Airlines is challenged by the associations of local residents who are fighting against noise pollution associated with the overflight of Brussels. For many residents of the capital, it is difficult to understand the federal government's decision to increase noise pollution. In addition to these legitimate fears of Brussels, there are criticisms of the legality of your decision. This is a complex issue, and sometimes the information disseminated is contradictory – as usual. I would therefore like clarification in order to be able to analyse and monitor your management of this dossier. Can you justify your decisions regarding the granting of traffic rights to Ethiopian Airlines to operate flights between Brussels, Dubai, Hong Kong and Shanghai on behalf of DHL? Is your decision consistent with the bilateral agreements between Belgium and Ethiopia? Is it correct that DGTA (Air Transport Branch) has made a negative decision on this matter? If so, what are the reasons why you do not follow the experts in your administration? Will you extend these traffic rights beyond September? What consultations have you conducted with the airlines and airport operators concerned? What is the impact of your decisions in terms of noise pollution over Brussels? How many more overflights will your decision lead? What routes do these flights take? What are the hours and days of the week involved? Finally, have you consulted with local residents' associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u74	Minister, the granting of traffic rights in the air sector is a sensitive matter both for airlines and for the country's airport platforms, which can strongly influence competition in the market and have significant economic effects. The procedure for granting traffic rights is regulated at European level. In Belgium, it is governed by the Royal Decree of 18 August 2010. It follows that applications must be dealt with in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner, ensuring fairness of treatment and legal certainty for applicants and airlines with regard to the operation of scheduled air services. By consulting, on the website of the Mobility & Transport FPS, the table "Royal Decree Procedure 18 August 2010", it is noted that it does not contain a registration after the date of 30 January 2014 and that the last update would go back to 18 February of the same year. Could you enlighten us on this point? Could you also tell us how the analysis of the request for the granting of traffic rights, provided for in Article 11 of the Royal Decree referred to above, is carried out? What is the scope of his study? Is the economic impact on all Belgian airports and operators included? Could you also explain to us how applications for non-scheduled traffic rights are processed and what guarantees airlines requesting the exploitation of these rights the transparency and non-discriminatory nature of the procedure? More generally, Madam Minister, could you give us your position on the revision of the procedure for granting traffic rights and give us your opinion on the advisability of including in the procedure the consultation of Belgian airports in applications for traffic rights, as is the case in other European states such as Great Britain, the Netherlands or Italy, to name but a few examples?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u75	Thank you, colleagues. Regular traffic rights are governed by bilateral air agreements between Belgium and third countries. When amending these agreements or operating conditions, prior consultation is systematically organised by the Directorate-General for Air Transport and all Belgian stakeholders, both air carriers and airports. You refer to the Royal Decree of 18 August 2010 on the designation of Community air carriers and the allocation of traffic rights for the operation of scheduled air services between Belgium and non-Community countries. This Royal Decree concerns, on the one hand, the designation by Belgium of Community air carriers established in Belgium and, on the other hand, the distribution of the number of flights between those carriers. This royal decree therefore concerns only Belgian and European Union companies established in Belgium and which must fly from Belgium to third countries. The royal decree is therefore not linked to Ethiopian Airlines, if that is what you thought. The decision on the designation or allocation of the number of flights shall be based on the analysis of cases transmitted by these Community air carriers established in Belgium. The route chosen and therefore the Belgian airport concerned depend on the choice of the carrier. The last award file was issued at the end of 2013. The publication on the website of the Mobility and Transport FPS is therefore up-to-date. Since the publication of this Royal Order, only two cases of frequency distribution between air carriers designated by Belgium have had to be dealt with by DGTA services. With regard to non-regular traffic rights, a royal decree is being drawn up. The project will be submitted to all stakeholders established in Belgium, whether they are air carriers or airports. Non-scheduled traffic rights are granted on the basis of an application by a foreign air carrier. In some cases, Belgian air carriers are consulted for advice. The granting of non-scheduled traffic rights to a foreign air carrier shall be based on its application, including in particular the number of frequencies and the route chosen, airport of origin and destination. The choice of airport is again the responsibility of the carrier. The distinction should also be made between regular and non-regular traffic rights. Bilateral air agreements govern scheduled air services. The traffic rights granted to the carrier Ethiopian Airlines are non-scheduled traffic rights, particularly in view of the fact that they cover only a limited period of time and that the full capacity of the aircraft was reserved by a single operator. I have indicated in the press that I used September to analyse these traffic rights and this analysis is under way. Many consultations have already taken place with the stakeholders and others are still scheduled by the end of the week. The rights granted relate to day flights only. In total, the fees relate to one flight per day with the exception of Sunday. As a reminder, as far as Brussels is concerned, there have been no additional flights since 1 January 2015 with a stopover in Ethiopia. There is no competition with Liège since the activity concerns the day for Brussels and the night for Liège. There is no possibility of increasing night activity at Brussels airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you. As far as Sunday is concerned, it is the heaviest day for citizens and it is also the day when they can enjoy their garden. When you talk about Sunday, I don't think the Brussels people will be happy to hear it because these big aircraft are making a lot of noise. On the other hand, you didn't tell us if you were going to extend the decision, since there are only seven days left to know. I hear what you say about non-competition with other airports. But I have heard the strong reaction of other airports on this matter. If there are day flights it may mean that there will be fewer flights at night for them. I didn't hear you on this. In any event, the other airports consider that this is a competition. You also did not say whether DGTA had given a positive opinion on this licence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u77	She gave a positive opinion for non-regulars.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u78	With regard to non-regular traffic rights, there was the drafting of a royal decree. This will clarify the rules of the game for all actors. This will also make it possible to achieve a real level playing field for all air transport players in Belgium and to strengthen the "Belgium" platform compared to foreign platforms. I would like to emphasize the principles of transparency and non-discrimination that must prevail in the decisions you will have to take in the near future. It is very important to clarify the rules of the game so that Belgian airports can evolve in a fair environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u79	Madam Minister, before the recess, you stated that Infrabel should no longer make large investments if it does not generate enough output for travellers. Since no specific parameters were mentioned at that time, I would like to ask you a specific question about the Watermaal-Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. On the basis of the questions I am asking, I would like to try to form a picture of what you understand under social cost-benefit analysis. The tunnel required an investment of EUR 537 million. The journey time is reduced from 32 minutes to 13 minutes. Does that investment have enough output? What is the financial cost-benefit analysis? What is the social cost-benefit analysis? How many more travellers are expected by the reduction in travel time? How much more revenue will the investment generate annually? What additional costs are involved for SNCB and Infrabel, respectively? If I apply the rhetoric of the proposed strategic communication document to that project, I wonder whether or not the project will be implemented effectively. Your answers give me an idea of the criteria that will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u80	Madam President, the Schuman-Josaphat railway tunnel is a direct link between the Brussels-Schuman railway station and the Halle-Vilvoorde railway line, also known as the eastern ring railway around Brussels. The railway tunnel runs completely underground and has a length of 1 250 meters. The tunnel connects the European Quarter directly to the north of Brussels and to some important Belgian cities, such as Antwerp, Mechelen, Leuven and Liège, as well as to the national airport. The new rail infrastructure also facilitates access to the saturated Brussels north-south link. Moreover, the railway tunnel is perfectly complementary to the diabolo, which was opened in June 2012. The additional train offer is part of the contractual objectives included in the public-private partnership of the diabolo link and is an important link in the realisation of the PPP's financial plan. The new tunnel is also an indispensable link for the regional express network, as the Watermaal-Schuman-Josaphat rail link is an integral part of it. The construction of the tunnel is part of a long-term vision and originated in the late 1980s, in order to meet different needs and challenges at both national and supranational levels. To this end, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out in 1988 under the plan Star 21, which led to the decision to implement that project. When the building application was submitted in 1999, no additional SMEA was ordered, but an extensive study was carried out, in which the impact on the economic and social fabric and the environment was thoroughly investigated. It is still a little early to make an accurate assessment of the increase in revenue resulting from the expansion of supply to the east of Brussels and to the airport. However, it is certain that the reduction in driving times in the medium and long term will lead to an increase in capacity utilisation on those axes. Infrabel is responsible for the construction, maintenance and renewal of the railway infrastructure, as well as for the organisation of rail traffic. The intermodal hub Schuman, on the other hand, is the responsibility of Beliris. The opening of the tunnel does not entail any direct additional costs for SNCB. The tunnel is used partly by the redirection of the existing connection and partly by the extension of connections. The organisation was already scheduled for the preparation of the 2014-2017 transport plan and has therefore been integrated into the budget for the next two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed answer. For the sake of clarity, I too think it is an important project and welcome the fact that it will be implemented. My question was prompted by the fear that some projects, with a positive cost-benefit analysis, will be deleted. Therefore, on the basis of the project we have now discussed, I would have liked to find out what criteria will be used in the future. I will hear that in another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u82	Madam Minister, I have just asked a question about the possible abolition of the discount card for large families. Now I'm talking about a decision. On 1 September SNCB stopped offering weekly subscriptions. I think that is a bad thing, especially for people working part-time for a week or two, and for temporary workers. Such workers must now switch to a different formula. According to our calculations it would be 11 % more expensive. The reform of the tariff formulas seems to us to be a good thing, but simplification usually leads to a flat rate increase. I have already argued that the discount card cannot be abolished simply because it is not provided for in the current management agreement. The weekly subscription is now abolished. Isn't that also contrary to the current management agreement? What are the arguments for abolishing the weekly subscription? What is the cost of maintaining the weekly subscription? How many people made use of the formula in 2014 and in the last few months of 2015? Will other tariff formulas be simplified and therefore more expensive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u83	Madam Minister, I refer to Article 18 of the management contract, which states that, with each tariff adjustment, SNCB must communicate the range of tickets and the rates in force to the FPS two months before it is published to the public. The public must also be informed of it at least 10 days in advance. My questions are similar to those raised by Mr Geerts. Is the tariff adjustment subject to the procedure laid down in the management contract, namely reporting to the FPS? How many users are we talking about? An additional point is that the rates for weekly subscriptions by the social partners in the joint committees in their social agreements were also used as a basis for mileage allowances. We now need to make adjustments to all these social agreements, because the weekly subscription has disappeared. I think it is important that such steps should also take account of the derived effects and that in such cases at least consultation with the Central Council for Businesses should be provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u84	SNCB's tariff rules have 200 pages and are therefore very complex, even in so far as few people are wise enough to get out of them. Simplifying the rules is an act of good management. Simplification also means the regrouping of formulas and consequently the disappearance of few or very little used formulas. SNCB wants to simplify its subscription offer for commuting. It does not seem commercially logical to retain products that do not allow the market to be stimulated and driven towards modal shift, and which are no longer sufficiently interesting for consumers, regardless of the costs that the products generate or do not generate. The half-time train ticket is the most similar to the weekly subscription. The card is more expensive, but offers more flexibility and perfectly meets the needs of all cited passenger profiles. After all, the half-time train map allows the traveller to divide his journeys as desired over a period of 15 days. By deleting the weekly subscription, SNCB aligns its offer with that of regional operators. Moreover, the measure covers less than 1% of subscribers and since 2012 their number has decreased on average by 5% per year in favour of longer-term subscriptions or other more advantageous tariff formulas. SNCB informs me that it does not intend to reduce the price of the half-time train ticket or to change its subscription formulas in the short term. In addition, the number of journeys made by holders of a journey map is decreasing. The abolition of the weekly subscription does not conflict with the current form of the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u85	Madam Secretary, you say that the decision is not contrary to the management agreement. You said earlier that the discount cards could not be abolished, because this is contrary to the management contract. So it seems rather strange to me that the weekly subscription can be abolished and not another tariff formula. I thought no distinction was made between formulas in a management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u86	(...) The current one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u87	With regard to the emergency plan, you are talking about 1% of the subscriptions. What does that mean in real figures? I have absolutely no idea the number of subscriptions. I will put a written question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am left with questions about the procedure provided for in the management contract, where there is always a procedure to be followed in the case of a tariff adjustment. The abolition of one and the offer of another, a card, still requires a tariff adjustment and a certain procedure must be followed. I'm assuming the F.D.D. did a good check on this. I also think that there should be sufficient consideration of the derivative effects if such action is to be taken in the future. I also asked about the numbers. I have converted my written question into an oral question. I will now submit them again in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u89	Madam President, Minister, there has long been a second track opening for the port of Antwerp. It's very much needed. Antwerp is the first railway port of the European continent and faces a number of railway bottlenecks which can be eliminated by an additional rail network. Your services and the railway managers have been working on this dossier for a long time and in a good way. They have thoroughly prepared this dossier and informed the people who may be confronted with this work in detail about what could happen to this infrastructure. I am talking first of all about the districts of Ekeren and Merksem, about the municipality of Schoten and beyond, up to the possible branch on the Iron Rhine. We understand that, in so far as this dossier is being recoupled to the lower authorities, a tunneled version would be used for this second track opening, as requested by the people in the immediate vicinity. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. That's important, because I need to be able to get that information back to the people who are doing this. Is it about a tunnel construction? I hope so. Is it about a drilled tunnel construction, or is it about a tunnel construction that is realized by a so-called cut-and-cover method? A file attached to it is that of the Flemish road managers who want to create an eastern pang around Antwerp, the so-called A102 towards the port of Antwerp. They have asked to make use of the possibility, when that tunnel is realized, of building a road structure in it. I know that this dossier has been somewhat less well prepared and has been put in the background by all kinds of legal problems. Do you have contacts with the Flemish road managers? Are you as a guardian minister for the railway manager permanently willing to negotiate with the Flemish road managers in this file? Does the railway infrastructure file possibly lag behind if the road file is not realised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u90	Madam President, Mr Penris, in implementing the Strategic vision for the Belgian railways, a new multi-annual investment plan 2015-2019 will be launched. This plan will be prepared by a new investment cell, in which the regional authorities are represented. Infrabel has already carried out preparatory studies in the past on the second track opening for the port of Antwerp. According to these studies, the second rail access, coming from the formation station Antwerp-Noord, would go over the E19, and then immediately descend to an underground level. From there there are two further variants for study. A first variant is a connection via a drilled tunnel beyond Lier, where the line splits in the direction Nijlen to line 15 and direction Berlaar to line 16. The exact location where the tunnel mouths will surface is not yet known with certainty. A second variant is a connection via a new line, bundled with the E313. In that case, the line comes above ground where it joins the E313. The study is based on a tunnel; the cut-and-cover technique is not planned. There are still coordinations between the different stakeholders involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u91	Madam Minister, I have learned from your reply that this tunnel is a drilled tunnel, and that is important, because that will certainly please local residents. I hope that I will be able to interview you or your services in writing about the places where the tunnels will be implemented in a very concrete way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u92	Madam Minister, the press announced a fortnight ago that the Brussels-Capital Region was experiencing a significant increase in the number of violations of its noise standards, particularly at night, on the so-called canal or Onkelinx road. The associations of the inhabitants remain very dissatisfied, whether in the centre of Brussels or in its immediate or more distant periphery, whether in the Flemish Brabant or in the Walloon Brabant. These residents send you, like all of us, a lot of complaints by e-mail. You're as busy as we are, I think. The impatience is rumbling. For months, you've been telling me here that you've been working on structural solutions, that you've been consulting everyone and that it's only inevitable that it takes time. I'll give it to you. You've been working on these solutions for a year now. It is time to tell us where you are in the implementation of this important point of the government agreement that you presented a year ago. Minister, these are my questions. What are you doing in developing these structural solutions? Are you going to ban night flights, as is unanimously requested – exceptional – by all associations of residents? At a minimum, will you extend the working night until 7:00 a.m.? In the absence of a total ban, do you envisage a reduction in the maximum number of night flights, i.e. the current ceiling? The associations of the Oostrand have made you proposals to replace the current left turn with a shorter turn towards the E40 motorway. This would, according to these associations, drastically reduce the number of people flying over. What are Belgocontrol's conclusions about the technical feasibility of this solution? What about the redefinition of wind standards? Are you going to remove the concept of gusts from the norm, as was the case in Brussels-National before 2003, and as is the case today in Charleroi, in order to put an end to the arbitrariness that this concept induces in the application of roads by Belgocontrol? Have you made a proposal to the Regions concerning the establishment of an independent supervisory authority and the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on noise management at Brussels-National Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u93	My question echoes my colleague's observation. Other questions were being asked, but they will not be dealt with today. There was no agreement in the Conciliation Committee. It is time to have structural solutions. Minister, have you drawn up a list of potential measures to reduce noise pollution for the benefit of the populations overrun, and assessed these measures, in order to prepare for future decisions? Have you proposed measures to your federal government partners? In other words, do you already make intercabinets to see if the file is moving forward? Are you in favour of a partial modification of the air routes in order to avoid the most densely populated areas, which we have been asking for for for some time? Are you in favour of an extension of the night? We want a night from 22:00 to 07:00, the "European night". The government agreement announces the creation of an independent supervisory authority, which is fundamental. What is the state of consultation with the Regions on this project? When could this independent authority be created?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u94	Colleagues, I would like to point out that my action is guided by respect for the government agreement. Several measures, potentially structural, to reduce noise pollution are being evaluated taking into account an overall balance for both airport-related jobs and the reduction of noise pollution for all residents. The overflight of densely populated areas, the use of night are all elements of this overall package. The Associations' proposals are also an integral part of it. As far as night is concerned, there are exceptions to night flights and aeroplanes that have the right to fly with a much higher noise quota. These exceptions also merit reflection. I would also point out that, as provided for in the government agreement, an analysis of night activities in Brussels-National is under way. Finally, the draft law on the establishment of an independent authority is in the process of being finalized. I would like a consolidated version before proposing it to the government partners and before the consultation with the Regions. I have already met with all the associations several times and I meet all the mayors. I continue my pilgrimage tomorrow in Brussels. At the time of the Consultation Committee, this was not at all on the agenda but only the conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u95	Minister, you did not answer my question about the left turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u96	I am not going to answer on any particular point. The answer will be found in all the measures that will be proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u97	I am pleased to hear that you will respect the government agreement. This is not the easiest point to settle, I concede it. You have committed yourself to it and it is normal that we should take stock of it. You talked about the possibility of flying at night only the planes with the lowest quota count. This is an interesting solution that we were able to experiment on the canal area this summer, following a small administrative error. It is also interesting in relation to the wind standards, knowing that today Belgocontrol, quite arbitrarily, returns to runway 01 of the planes on landing, so that the areas of eastern Brussels are flown permanently as soon as the gusts reach a wind of force 7. However, aircraft can withstand a much higher backwind. It would therefore be a way of relieving the eastern part of Brussels and the eastern periphery of Brussels. We are waiting for your draft law on independent authority. We will read it with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we have to move forward. I have heard that the bill would go first to the federal government, which seems logical. I hope, however, that it will be the subject of real consultation and that it will not be tabled on the basis of "that's it or nothing" – we have already seen this kind of consultation between the Regions and the federal government. I hope that consultations with the Regions will be free and will allow them to work. I regret that you did not consult with the Regions in advance so that they could express their requests, which could have already been incorporated into the federal government's preliminary draft. I think that would have been a better way to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u99	Madam Minister, my question is indirectly linked to the news since tomorrow will be inaugurated in Brussels at the Schaerbeek station the museum called Train World. This decision is the result of the Belgian Government's willingness to use SNCB's management contracts to value the SNCB's historical heritage, I want to say. It's a decision that goes back a dozen years. The aim is to make a significant investment of around 25 million euros for the Train World. This decision was cast into management contracts by saying that, since there is a very important historical heritage, Train World will be able to value only a small part of it. This historical heritage, which today is not valued, has been distributed. One part was to be developed in Ostend station, which is being renovated, and one part was to be enhanced by an extension of a museum located in the Walloon Region and located in Treignes, in the municipality of Viroinval. This is truly historic because, so far, our country has not had this kind of policy. Unfortunately, after having notified the management association of the museum of Treignes a desire, formerly of SNCB Holding and taken over by SNCB, to invest 500,000 euros in partnership with the Walloon Region to build this museum extension in Treignes and to enhance part of the SNCB's historical heritage on 4 May, the SNCB's management committee decides to abolish this investment. This is a bit of a consternation because there was a decision announced and confirmed, made public on several occasions. Minister, do you confirm this will and what may be the reasons for it to your knowledge? Do you share this step backwards realized by SNCB? Despite the fact that Train World will open its doors, which is a good thing, the planned valuation in Flanders and Wallonia would not take place since the planned investment in Ostend would also be abolished, according to a letter from the president of SNCB. What's your position on that? The management contract, which has been the subject of various amendments, still provides for this valuation in Ostend and Treignes. Is the SNCB not in full compliance with the management contract, unless there is an amendment of which I am not aware? Secondly, is it legal to grant a grant, to go to co-financing with partners and then to withdraw the grant, whereas there is harm to the other parties since co-financing no longer exists, the extension of Treignes is likely to fall into the water and study costs have been incurred? These are my two main questions. Is the management contract respected? What is the legal value of a decision to abolish announced financial aid from ongoing co-financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u100	Mr. Delizée, you're really going to be disappointed. We sent you an e-mail but, in my opinion, you didn't receive it. Your question is on the agenda of the next SNCB Board of Directors. So I can't tell you anything today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u101	I don't know how I should take that answer. I wrote to you and the SNCB. What is your position on the valuation of heritage? Would you like to confirm what the previous governments had done, that is to say, in addition to Train World also value Ostend and Treignes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u102	I cannot anticipate the decisions that will be taken on the board of directors. I'm not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u103	Don't you have a point of view to communicate to them to go one way or the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u104	The files of the board of directors are not submitted to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u105	The management contract indicates that Ostend and Treignes must be valued. Are you in favour of it? It is the state that defines the constraints and the beacons. I will come back to you later, hoping that the Board of Directors will make a favourable decision on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u106	Apparently, the state no longer gives direction to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-23-54-commissie-ic232x.u107	Questions No 6122 and No 6125, No 6138 by Mr Geerts, No 6227 by Mrs De Coninck, No 6228 by Mr M. Van Hecke and No 6289 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Van den Bergh are postponed.
