ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose that the draft law amending the Budget for the financial year 2015 (Nos 1504/1 and 2) be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill containing the adjustment of the budget of the Ways and Means for the fiscal year 2015 (Nos. 1504/1 and 2). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I am glad that you are here. It is clear that most of the debate has been held this morning. That is clear from the presence of my fellow Members this afternoon. However, I am consoled by the thought that it is not the quantity, but the quality that counts. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate has already been held in essence this morning, I will confine myself to a number of statements made by my party. What conclusion should we draw from this budget and from the policy of this government? The families contribute and contribute, but the government has not achieved its objective. As has been said a few times this morning, we need to monitor ourselves at the moment and see how the budgets are actually being converted. Let's take a look at the implementation of the 2015 budget. We base ourselves on the reports of the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, the National Bank, the Planning Office and so on. If we look at the nominal balance, the European Commission assumes a deficit of 2.7 percent. That is 0.1% worse than envisaged. We suspect that the final result will be even worse, for two important reasons, even if there are more. The first reason is the entity II. The Regions and certainly the cities and municipalities know that the budgets of the cities and municipalities are under enormous pressure today because of all kinds of factors, but certainly also because of the measures taken, in this case by the Flemish government, and the federal governments. These are not all federal measures, but I would like to mention a few: the reduction in subsidies for scissors, the disappearance of compensation equipment and equipment, the introduction of corporation tax on intercommunals, the non-indexation of sectoral subsidies, and indeed a federal matter, the reduction of the wage burden that does not apply to the staff of the towns and municipalities. Despite Bart De Wever's appeal, our proposal was voted down by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u5	Mr Temmerman, I apologise for interrupting you already, but what you are saying about the various measures that have been taken on the local authorities is not entirely correct. In general, I agree that much is being pushed through, including by the intercommunals. The corporation tax introduced on intercommunal services may be passed on to the consumer. It's just being calculated one by one, so I think it should be removed from your list. Of course, these costs come from the citizens, but you cannot say that they are being passed on to local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u6	Mr Bogaert, I must bring you to justice. That's true for some intercommunals. Other intercommunals, however, take charge of these taxes, which means that the cities and municipalities will pay them. Water intercommunals, for example, are thinking of passing these taxes on to the municipalities in one way or another and not to the citizens. I find it strange that you say: it is not passed on to the municipalities, but to the citizens, so it is okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u7	I didn't say I don't mind them being pushed through. Eandis and Infrax will simply pass them on to the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u8	There are other intercommunals, Mr Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u9	Then you need to be more specific in your designation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u10	I tell you that, among other things, the water intercommunals are thinking of doing it in a different way. These taxes will then be paid on the bill of the cities and the municipalities. As I said, local budgets are already under heavy pressure. You'll confirm that. This will certainly not reduce their deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also noted that the government is rather creative in dealing with the collection of personal taxes. As you know, in the past, real efforts have been made to speed up this invoicing. We note that it is now being delayed. We suspect that those who have to pay will now receive their letter very quickly, but that for those who have to get something back this will be slower. According to our calculations, about half a billion is withheld in this way. Once again, there was an acceleration of the previous governments, but probably that was also the fault of the Socialists. In conclusion, my fellow Members, the government will be very close to 3% deficit for its 2015 final result. Now let's look at the structural balance in 2015. The government had set itself the objective of achieving a structural balance of -2%. The most recent predictions end -2.5 %. In 2014, the structural balance was -2,8%. The structural improvement in 2015 is therefore weak and limited to a maximum of 0.3 %, while the agreements with the European Commission oblige us to achieve an annual improvement of 0.6%. So what's the conclusion? It is remarkable that in a year when the government is constantly repeating its structural improvement in the budgetary situation, there is hardly any improvement if we look at the figures objectively. What is in the 2016 budget? The government's objective is to obtain a nominal balance of -2.2%. The European Commission will stop at -2.6 %. That is a difference of two billion euros, only in 2016. On the basis of these figures, we can only conclude that the European Commission assumes that Belgium will hardly make any progress in the budgetary field next year. This is also confirmed by the Court of Auditors. According to the Court of Auditors, the results will still be negatively influenced by the following elements. Firstly, there is the excess of the central index that is not included. We now know that according to the latest estimates it would be exceeded in July. Knowing that the budgets are calculated on an overrun in August, this will cost around 222.5 million euros. Secondly, there is the uncertainty of tax revenue. Thirdly, as regards higher VAT and excise revenue, the Court notes that price elasticity, change in consumer behaviour or other circumvention possibilities are not included. The Court of Auditors therefore concludes that it is not excluded that certain revenue from these tax measures has been overestimated. That, of course, permeates the idea of the government's smart taxes. According to the government, the population will not change its behaviour, and this is reflected in the budget. However, if we hear the government in other fora, the population will change its behaviour. In any case, if the population does not adjust its behaviour, then the revenues are grossly overrated. Indeed, in 2016 the government expects almost 2.5 billion additional revenue from VAT and excise duties, and there will be another problem there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u11	I will have the opportunity to say something about the budget itself later, but according to your reasoning there is not enough structural deficit reduction. Mr Vande Lanotte has given a number of tables showing that the structural deficit is not in line with the Stability Pact. Too little is being done. So you are in favour of a greater reduction in the structural deficit. As a matter of fact, you don't think the clean-up is going far enough, when I hear you like that. I do not know what your reasoning is behind that, Mrs Temmerman, but if you say that the structural deficit is not sufficiently reduced, you mean that you think that either there is more to be saved in expenditure or that taxes still need to be increased or that there is no room for tax cuts. What exactly is your position? I thought that in recent years the Socialists were beginning to question the deficit of 3% in Europe, that the Stability Pact was a kind of deflation policy and that we should be more flexible. Mr Vande Lanotte advocated greater structural savings, but where would you like to save? You are also opposed to savings in social security and the departments, but I have only seen one of you. That can be said at some point. Public and social security expenditure is 170 billion. The sp.a has tabled one amendment. About what? About Prince Laurent's dotation. That is the only amendment tabled by the Socialists to a budget of EUR 170 billion. Firstly, should there be more structural savings? Secondly, your amendment to the budget was about Prince Laurent. I don't know what the amount was, but there had to be more control over the amount or she had to be reduced. Mrs Temmerman, I am completely unaware of your reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u12	Mr Vanvelthoven, you will have the floor, but I would remind you of our agreement to respond only to the speaker, but not to the interrupter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u13	I would like to say to Mrs Temmerman that, on previous occasions, she was twice the co-author of an important amendment concerning the introduction of something which, in a distant reminder, was very much in favour of CD&V, at least in words, namely the introduction of an added value tax on shares. Up to two times this was tabled by the sp.a Group in amendment, and twice this was voted down by the CD&V Group. So CD&V should not really blame us today for having voted out twice in the context of the financing of the tax shift by CD&V despite the fact that that party always calls out of this house to be in favour of not tabling this amendment for a third time. That's a few little ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u14	Mr Van Rompuy, to answer your first question, of course we do not want any more savings to be saved, quite the contrary. The previous government has shown that, with very few savings for families, we can get the budget in order, that we can achieve better growth and a better average in Europe, and that we can do better to meet the structural deficit. This government is talking about the families and about the fact that everyone has to turn in, but in practice it is mainly the families who are, but it is not yet getting its budget in order. That is our point, not at all that further savings should be made. On the contrary, the previous government has shown that it is possible to get the budget in order without putting all the burdens on families. I was in need of the insecure tax revenue, in which context I actually fully follow the Court of Auditors' report. According to some Members of the majority, the Court of Auditors is merely doing what it is instructed to do and does not have to take much account of it. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but we do take that into account. Allow me to take a look at the carat tax as well. The carat tax has now disappeared from the budget. The Court of Auditors says that the collection of this tax is highly uncertain and that there is still no conclusion on Europe's attitude to carat tax. So miraculously the carat tax disappeared from the budget. Secondly, I refer to the increase in the VAT rate on electricity from 6% to 21%. We have had part of the debate on this this morning. In that regard, the Court of Auditors states very clearly that, firstly, it has not received sufficient accountability to support the calculations of the FPS Finance and, secondly, notes that the net revenues of the tariff increase are lower than the side effects created by that tariff increase. So there is also uncertainty in terms of revenue. The Cayman tax would amount to EUR 460 million, and I quote again the Court of Auditors: "It can be concluded that the estimate can only be indicative and is an absolute maximum, which is therefore potentially overestimated. On tax regularisation, the Court of Auditors says: "The estimation of these revenues is precarious." In addition, the Court of Auditors points out the need to reach an agreement with the Regions. In the meantime, we know that this has been taken out of the programme law. In other words, tax regularisation will not be possible until 1 January 2016. It's about 250 million euros. On the speculative tax, which is worth 34 million euros, the Court of Auditors says: "The future yield will depend on the stock market climate and therefore it will also vary from year to year. It is difficult to predict the extent to which investors will try to avoid the tax, for example by holding their shares for at least six months or adjusting their investment strategy. That is exactly what we in the opposition said when the speculative tax was discussed. We shall therefore receive confirmation from the Court of Auditors. With regard to the VAT rate on school building, the Court of Auditors says that this is totally unrealistic. In order to achieve this, 250 % of what is being converted into the current climate should be achieved. In other words, in the current situation of schools and the Communities, this is actually not realistic. Moreover, it remains to be seen whether Europe will allow this because it is not on the list of reduced rates. In other words, there is a great deal of uncertainty about revenue. Let us look at the structural balance. The government's objective for the structural balance in 2016 is -1.5 %. According to the European Commission, -2.1% is a more realistic estimate. The Court of Auditors also explains how the difference between the two figures can be explained. The European Commission does not, of course, take into account the effects of the tax shift, the so-called payback effects, as they are already included in the economic growth forecasts. This seems normal to me, by the way. Nor does the European Commission take into account a number of measures which are not sufficiently specified. This is a point of criticism that we have already made. What does the redesign mean, for example? We have not yet received an answer to that question because there is probably no answer to it either. In other words, this is very uncertain. The same applies to social security and the increased underutilisation of primary expenditure. Colleagues, the European Commission also estimates the impact of a number of fiscal measures later. I refer to the comments I made earlier on the caiman tax and the recovery of the improper use of the reduced VAT rate on electricity. The European Commission does, however, take into account the indexation of public wages and benefits in the autumn of next year. This is also to be done in the light of the forecasts for exceeding the central index. The European Commission does not intend to improve the balance of local authorities. I said this at the beginning of my speech. We do not expect this either, given the precarious situation in which most cities and municipalities find themselves. In other words, we believe that the European Commission's estimates are closer to reality than those of the government. This has recently been highlighted by the National Bank in the publication of its bulletin on economic operators. This showed that the structural balance, Mr Van Rompuy, in the first two years of the Michael administration was barely falling by 0.5 percent. That is very little and much less than what the government had set itself as its goal. Let me make a comparison with the previous government. At that time everything was bad, especially because the socialists were in the government. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u15	Absolutely, you were part of it and so was the Open Vld. I'm not denying that. I think we worked well then, but you are denying that now. I'll make the equation. May I remind you that the economic crisis during the first two years of the Di Rupo administration was much worse than it is now? The crisis is still there, but at that time it was much worse than it is now. During the first two years, the Di Rupo government improved the structural balance by 1.3 %. That's a little more than 0.5% more than double. I can only conclude that this was certainly also the fault of the Socialists!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u16	Mrs Temmerman, it is an interesting discussion in which one government is weighed against another, but the figures must be looked at in full. The Di Rupo government took office in December 2011. Until all the electrical outlets and printers were connected in the cabinets, there was some time left, so let us take 2012 as a relevant political measure. In 2012, the debt balance improved by 0.6 % and in 2013, also a full Di Rupo year, by 0.7 %. In 2014 an election year although I do not think that should be excused, there was a deterioration in the structural balance by 0.1 %. If we add the three years, we get to 1.2 %. Divided over three government years, this represents an improvement in the structural balance of 0.4% per year. 0,4 % is not 1 %, there is a point. Of course, you cannot say that this went painlessly and without effort. I recall that Mr Laaouej has interpeded me three times on the reform of the civil servants. Mr De Coninck also had to take measures that did not make her popular everywhere, but she continued and did so. It may be concluded that the balance sheet is clean: an average of 0.4 % structural improvement. The government starts with less, namely 0.3%. However, you should also compare the reduction in interest charges during the two periods. That decrease was more explicit during the period-Di Rupo, because there was an interest rate curve. Now it's starting to flatten. Today there is an important decision in America. Maybe at some point it means headwind. So we're gonna have to subtract that. If all these percentages are deducted, according to my calculations we get about the same trajectory, about 0.4 % structural improvement per year. So I don't think you're allowed to place one government in front of another. I must contradict you when you say that despite the hard work of families, the budget is not in order. I replied to the second part. I believe that the budget is ahead of us with an improvement of 0.4% per year. As far as the hard work of the families is concerned, we will be discussing the tax shift on Friday. In your calculation there is a structural problem, namely a double count. You constantly place the increase in VAT on electricity and the sugar tax in the column of contributions from families. However, these two pieces are returned thanks to the index. You then ask why one raises it first when one returns it later. I understand. In any case, these contributions are fully compensated by the index mechanism. So you can't count that. It's not about small amounts either. In the meantime, I have received the formal response from the Peeters' Cabinet and it is more than EUR 1 billion. The families get that money back through those measures in the tax shift. The tax shift has two legs. The part of indirect taxes, which is to be placed in the drawer, is paid back for more than one billion. We also discussed the redistribution aspect of the tax shift this morning. The balance is clearly moving towards the social side in this respect. It is a pity that you take a different view on this: the figures are what they are; they clearly show a social impact. So I do not think that as a socialist you should say that we are now calling on families to make all kinds of efforts, which would not have been the case in the past. That's not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u17	Mr President, I will reply to Mrs Temmerman that the reasoning just held by Mr Bogaert is a little strange. Imagine someone with a salary of 1,000 euros and another 10,000 euros. If there is an indexation due to the increase in VAT, you will understand quite easily that the rate of 2% will be more important for the second than for the first. So far, we can agree on the reasoning. On the other hand, the weight of the increase in VAT in relation to income will be more overwhelming for those who earn EUR 1 000 than for those who earn EUR 10 000 since this tax is regressive. It weighs more heavily on low and middle incomes than on very high ones. However, indexation will have an inverse effect, since it is exactly proportional: it will be 2% on basic income. Therefore, you do not compensate for the loss of purchasing power through indexation; you reinforce the non-redistributive nature of VAT, in that the resulting indexation will benefit more proportionally to a high income than to a low income. That's what you don't want to see. When you say theoretically that indexation neutralizes the effect of the increase in VAT, I tell you that this is not the case at all. You have a decile distribution that will be different. The VAT burden is proportionally higher on low and medium incomes than on higher incomes. You will not correct this phenomenon with wage indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u18	I would like to add to what Mr Laaouej says that there has, of course, already been an index jump. The families have already turned in a big piece. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u19	That is another discussion, but it is not another discussion for families. You're very fond of quoting the National Bank. I also take a quote: 'Despite a favourable labour market situation, wage moderation and the increase in indirect taxes, particularly on electricity, would put downward pressure on the real disposable income of households'. In other words, the families are turning in. I'm not saying that, it's in the National Bank report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u20	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Temmerman that this passage from the National Bank shows that the government could have made other choices to finance its tax shift, including an increase in income taxation on speculation instead of the small tax of 34 million. This would have had less impact on household disposable income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u21	The National Bank clearly says that the disposable income of families will increase by 2.4 %. That's pluses and minuses. You're just quoting the lovers. Maybe the government's gonna have to sum up the pluses. The bottomline is that the real disposable income of households will increase by 2.4 % until 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u22	Mr Minister, you are therefore financing your tax shift with an increase in VAT. It's in the budget, it's in the general presentation. The National Bank, as Ms. Temmerman says, and she's right to say... this increase in taxes on consumption results in the loss of 1.1 per cent of disposable income. It would have been preferable to preserve the disposable income gain associated with labour tax reductions and to look for another source of funding. I agree with you, Mrs. Temmerman. You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u23	I would like to say to Mrs Temmerman, in addition to what has already been announced by my colleagues, that a tool that would have been useful in assessing the impact of these measures on family incomes is this decile impact assessment that we have been asking for for over three weeks – I will come back in my presentation – and that the minister has not provided us with. When it gives a figure on the income of families, it gives an overall figure. But what about the less affluent families? What about the most affluent families? How is this distributed among our fellow citizens? This is another element that needs to be taken into account. If, as part of this discussion, the minister wants to provide us with the document, I would be happy to discuss it. We asked in time non-suspecto with my colleague Kristof Calvo. You have to be able to evaluate things finer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u24	Mr President, I assume that I can also play triad through Mrs Temmerman, given your regulation. I repeat what I said this morning. The calculations of the various purchasing power interventions show that the net increase is EUR 140 for the minimum wage and EUR 76 for a gross wage of EUR 5 500. A better mathematical proof of the redistributing effect of the tax shift on purchasing power I'm still silent about job creation Surely can't be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u25	I would like to highlight a number of things, Mrs Temmerman. First of all, this breakdown by decile, we are several to have asked for it. We never got it because of the difficulty that the Minister of Finance mentioned in making his calculations at the FPS Finances. In substance, there are two things I would like to say. First of all, taxes could very well be much fairer than VAT or excise duties. I am not even talking about the tax on natural persons, which is progressive. For example, a millionaire tax, a property tax that would affect only 1% of the population. In this way, you fully preserve the purchasing power of 99% of the population, of those who consume. If you increase the income of the remaining 1%, they won't spend more. Secondly, when I hear about the impact in the index of the increase in the price of electricity, I recall that there has been a jump in the index but I also recall that, in this budget – and the Court of Auditors points out – we do not take into account the shift in the index-pivot that will arrive in the summer of 2016. This makes me say that the index jump that we have experienced may not be the last one led by this government if it does not take it into account in this budget. This means that the return effect through electricity indexation would not occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u26	I would also like to say this to Mr Van Hees, in line with what Mr Vanvelthoven said earlier about the added value tax. CD&V was in favour of this in the past and we still are. We will support the amendment on this subject if CD&V submits it. Mr Van Rompuy, we must only note that if we table an amendment or a legislative proposal to that effect, you will vote against it. Our group and no doubt other groups will support an amendment in this respect. I am in good faith and hope to be able to adopt a proposal on this in the vote tomorrow. Won't that be there yet? The day after tomorrow, then, at the tax shift? You're saying there's no proposal for the day after tomorrow? I remember, Mr Van Rompuy, that you had already announced an added value tax at the beginning of the government. I remember that there would be a proposal for New Year; then it was for the carnival holiday, then for the big holiday, now it was for this. But the added value tax is not included in the text, or am I mistaken? You're talking about the speculation tax? It was just about the added value tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u27	Mrs Temmerman, added value tax or capital gains tax is not included in the text, as has always been said. There are, however, increases, which all amount to a capital gain tax. Once again, there are no less than three forms of capital gains tax, which the previous government has never realised: the caiman tax, which is not to be borne by ordinary families, the speculative tax and the increase in the withholding tax. Those three taxes are not borne by low or modal incomes. When you say that the tax shift all comes down to the hood of modal families, that is not true. Three forms of capital gains tax are achieved and yes, that is an important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u28	Mrs. Smaers, I'm replicating very briefly. We have put that on the table very often under the previous government. Among other things, your party did not agree and did not approve this tax, as you do not now approve our proposals. CD&V is now satisfied, because the caiman tax and the speculative tax are included in the text. By the way, there is already a discussion on how much these taxes will pay and how they will be avoided. If CD&V now says that they have what they wanted and that an added value tax is being introduced now, then I must contradict that. What I read in a number of writings and in your election programme, which you are in favour of, is a very different type of added value tax. But we can stop this discussion. If you agree to our proposal, you will be satisfied and we will be satisfied. We don't even have a problem with it if you wouldn't want to mess with us. Reinsert an amendment on this; we will certainly support your amendment. Mr Van Rompuy, I am really looking forward to your amendment or your possible proposal. Several things have already been said about the tax shift, but the debate on this will be ruined on Friday, so I shall now be brief. Actually, the tax shift wasn't funded. We have had a lot of discussions on this. The Minister for the Budget said that there was a deficit of EUR 1 billion, but the chairman of the Finance Commission said that the deficit was three billion. The Minister of Finance said there's no shortage. Mr Moens made it very clear in committee that the long-term financing of the tax shift is not yet conclusive, and he did not mention the difference, because it is about billions, which we will have on our plate in 2020. Mr Van Rompuy, you are so eager to quote from reports, so I will do that again. Last week, the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office pointed out that there was a significant lack of funding from the tax shift in the period 2015-2020. Both institutions are talking about 6.6 billion. I really don't want to remember the next quote. It is a quote from the National Bank:... Since the calculation of the tax shift scenario does not finance 6.617 billion euros, which is around 1.6 % of the expected GDP of 2015, the overall result has been positively distorted. In order to respect budgetary objectives, other financing initiatives are therefore needed." Ladies and gentlemen, I understand from this that, firstly, job creation may not be as high as calculated and secondly, there is absolutely no knowledge yet of how the tax shift will be financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u29	I agree with Mrs Temmerman's reasoning. I wanted to develop it myself on Friday. There is still EUR 3,150 billion to finance, so you will have to take new initiatives. According to my calculations, you will most certainly have to find twice that amount by 2019 and you don't have much choice in front of you. It will still be a matter of making savings in public services and in the social protection of citizens. This will contract public demand or household disposable income, lead to increases in consumption taxes and undermine purchasing power. There will therefore be negative effects on employment that have not been measured, either by the National Bank or by the Planning Office. I agree with Mrs Temmerman on all these negative effects on the volume of employment which will be mechanically induced by the new initiatives to ensure that the budget path is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u30	Mr Laaouej, I fully agree with that. That, by the way, is what the National Bank says. In fact, that can be understood. Colleagues, did this government have any other options? A few have already been listed here. She definitely had other options. For example, it could keep nuclear interest rates at levels and close Objectives 1 and 2. She could tax the diamondaires in a correct way and if they don't pay correct taxes they can call fines to order. The government could take care of the fraud. We're studying your document, Minister. We could deal with fraud as it happened in the past, and we hope that this will be even more so in the future. We still have to wait and see what the reality will be. It could further tighten the rules of corporation tax rather than relax them, as is happening now, so that we do not take the little ones but the big fish, the multinationals. She could install an added value tax, but this government doesn't. What is the summary of this budget? First of all, people have already had to turn in a considerable amount of money over the past year through, among other things, an index jump and various tax increases. Secondly, the government had promised to compensate for these efforts by half of the people by the end of the legislature EUR 100. Thirdly, today it is clear that the money for this reduction, which is EUR 100, is not available. Even after reports by the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office, the Minister of Finance continues to say that the bill is correct, the light of the sun has continued to deny. Either we will not be able to live up to the EUR 100, or, as Mr Laaouej said just now, people will have to make a double effort. In fact, this government is playing a perfide game. One day the measures are used to put the budget in order, the other day to fill the crater in the tax shift. Finally, it appears that the account is incorrect and the families will have to pay the bill again. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite clear that our group will not approve this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u31	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose that a debate on COP21 be held in the context of the discussion of the budget immediately after the general discussion. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that you hold a debate on COP21 in the context of the budget discussion immediately after the general discussion. A speaking time of five minutes per political group has been agreed. A five-minute speaking time per group was agreed. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u32	Mr President, you could not better introduce my statement. This is a request which we have made, and which is the subject of the first point of my speech. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Sunday in Paris, under the aegis of the United Nations, 195 states and the European Union led to a historic climate agreement, the Paris Agreement, which almost everyone welcomed. The aim of this agreement is to avoid global warming by more than two degrees if possible and to aim at a maximum of 1.5°. This is the first real climate treaty that we are called upon to sign as a state, hoping to be one of the 55 countries needed for this treaty to be applicable by 22 April, when Belgium is invited to New York at the headquarters of the United Nations. We must save no more than our planet and its inhabitants, starting with those who are threatened by rising waters and who are victims of extreme weather events. And, as I say in the blink of an eye, Minister of Finance, the North Sea is also rising. The rise of water also concerns Belgium; it is a huge issue facing us, perhaps the most important and essential in the history of humanity. He's going to ask for a general mobilization, important changes for everyone. It requires a transition from our economic model, must aim at the emergence of a new decarbonized economy, as soon as possible, and translate all this into an ambitious and visionary climate budget. This is a huge challenge, which will change a lot. It is also an opportunity to seize. Savings will be achievable. Thus, the money we will not spend in the purchase of fossil fuels can be spent on other needs and avoid imbalance in our trade balance. Jobs can be created. We must contribute to greater global stability from a geopolitical point of view and provide our citizens with a better living environment. It's an exciting issue! I'm coming to this budget. I have vainly sought, in your 2016 budget, what could reflect this universal ambition or the beginning of the implementation of this movement which should and could put our country at the forefront of those who will meet this climate challenge and create the economic activities necessary for this purpose. Mr. Minister of Finance, if you and I are concerned about the functioning of our economy, there is an opportunity to seize. Nor did I find in your modal shift budget, i.e. a shift in mobility. Today, company cars in Belgium are more subsidized than SNCB. The cost of company cars is more than 500 euros per year per Belgian citizen. It's more than SNCB. We subsidize the traffic jams that cripple our economy and all too often make our fellow citizens sick. There is nothing in your budget to change this system, to replace 'car wages' with real wages, to leave workers who need their car as a tool, but to make sure that there are fewer cars on the roads. There's also no nuclear exit plan budget in your budget. On the contrary! In parallel with the budget work, you have announced the extension of very old plants, which are not necessary, and of two other plants. In doing so, you do not make room, in terms of investment capacity, for renewable energy, for energy efficiency. There is no trace of the commitment made in Paris on our behalf to finance global climate efforts to the tune of 50 million. Madam Budget Minister, in view of the 50 million for which Belgium committed itself, a few days ago in Paris, under the Green Climate Adaptation Fund, is this an additional 50 million in the development cooperation budget? If so, in which budget item are they included in the 2016 budget that will be put to the vote? Together with my colleague, Jean-Marc Nollet, who will speak earlier in the climate debate, we will pay particular attention to the accuracy of your answer. It is important to be clear on the subject. As with other budget promises, will we have to wait for budgetary adjustment or will there be compensation for development cooperation budgets? In the context of the budget, I have also found no willingness at the level of public buildings, for example, to be exemplary in terms of sound energy management. This is a specific question that I asked Minister Jambon in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. There is no strong agreement on burden sharing or on the allocation of CO2 emissions. Like this government, this 2016 budget is "climate-apathetic". The "climate-apathism" of this budget is the first of our criticisms. There are five in total. You can tell me that the Paris Agreement took place during the budget work and that the budget was closed before this agreement was signed. Perhaps there will be changes? I really encourage you to make Belgium a leading country in relation to these changes. Another function of the budget is to ensure the social cohesion of a State; it is to allow everyone to live in dignity, to enable the most fragile of us to have the means of subsistence and to consume, so to make our economy work. I repeat that this is a huge methodological regret that we do not have this income decile study of the effect of the tax measures on our citizens that will be decided upon. We have called for this on several occasions, particularly at the beginning of the budget work. She never showed up. Has it been lost between the FPS Finance and your firm or between your firm and Parliament? Or is it due to the fact that the results are not entirely right for you? That's a question I'm asking myself. More broadly, I wonder how we can legislate today, in 2015, without giving ourselves the means to know, to know the effects of such important choices on income distribution. From a scientific and managerial point of view, any tax measure should be accompanied, in the context of the explanatory memorandum and the parliamentary debate, by this type of tool available to Belgium at the level of the FPS Finances. We can also see these negative effects on social cohesion with the tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who are victims of the choices of this government - which is going to leave them at the edge of the road - with these linear economies, which I will call ideological in terms of social security and solidarity. This 2016 budget not only reinforces even more the social exclusions of the weakest but also organizes a form of fog, of lies against these people and these citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u33	Mr Gilkinet, you say that this government has reduced social inclusion and increased polarisation in society. How do you read, for example, the fact that there is more investment in wealth development compared to the previous period of government? There will be EUR 900 million on top of the EUR 450 million budgeted by the previous government. This led to an increase of between EUR 200 and EUR 300 per year in the lowest benefits in September or October. This seems to me to be an excellent measure to combat the lack of social cohesion. This seems to me to be an important commitment that you just slide under the mat. You also say that the tax shift has no ecological reflexes. I have been following the debates for some time and I see that excise duties on diesel are being brought to the same level as those on petrol. The price of diesel can be even higher than that of petrol, and that is a good thing for the environment. We all know that diesel is more polluting than petrol. This government ensures that excise duties are uniform and that the price of diesel may even be higher than that of petrol. This is a clear ecological reflex, isn't it? I still have a somewhat intellectual economic question. You want to abolish subsidies for commercial vehicles. I do not think that is the case, and if there is sufficient compensation for people's net wages, I would even think that is a very good measure. From that idea of claiming that this will lead to fewer cars, it seems to me to be a leap in the dark. How are you going to prove that this will lead to fewer cars? I do not think this will necessarily be the case. If the company doesn't finance that car anymore, I don't think it's gonna sell or destroy people's cars. That car's gonna keep driving anyway. You would have a point if you were to argue that companies should stop sponsoring their employees' fuel cards. This ensures that the marginal cost of using that car is virtually zero. The externality associated with the use of the Audi A4 is not calculated in any way so that there is no inhibition of consumption. I would like to know your answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u34	Mr Gilkinet, in the previous government, the welfare envelope was indeed reduced to 60%, but it was at the top of the index. Now, on the other hand, there is an index jump and the welfare envelope goes up to 100 %. However, it is not 100%, because everything related to child benefit has been transferred to the regions. So it's 80 %. In the previous government there was a wealth envelope at the top of the index. Now there's an index jump and then there's a prosperity envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u35	I would like to make it clear that the previous government has also de facto taken an index jump, although it was not called that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u36	I'm sorry, but I'll explain again what an index is. An index means that wages increase as prices rise. If we can ensure that prices do not rise, there is no increase in the index. So that's not an index jump, it's a price jump. The previous government has worked on prices in several ways: by reducing VAT, by encouraging consumers to compete through group purchases and by setting a ceiling on the maximum amount. The government did. It worked on prices and therefore there was no index jump. That's totally different. On the other hand, you are increasing prices and, on top of that, you are reducing wages by means of the index jump. That's totally different, Mrs. Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u37	Mr Gilkinet, the previous government may not have formally made an index jump, but what Mrs Smaers says is true. De facto, there was an index jump. How did that happen? We changed the index basket. Mr Vande Lanotte was very ingenious in that and has turned to all the parameters. Eventually there was also de facto an index jump of about 2 %. He wanted to avoid a formal index jump and solved it by adjusting the index basket. He did that and in this way there was de facto an index jump of 2 %. We are therefore in fact entering into a semantic discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u38	What has happened is that we have looked at real expenditure. You know that the real phone was in then and not the cell phone. One should look at the basket regularly. There's nothing wrong with that. We are looking at real spending capacity, but the real fall in prices has also been caused by the government's intervention. It's gonna be forgotten around here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u39	I agree with Mrs Temmerman and Mr Bogaert on the practice. The way in which the content was changed and the evolution of the cost of living was clearly assessed, on the part of the previous government of which you were a member, as was Ms. Temmerman, a way of reducing workers' incomes and not adapting them fully to changes in the cost of living. What you do with the index jump is to impose a 2% wage reduction on all workers and all recipients. Then you correct it with the well-being envelope, of which you are not the author, since it is a law that is linked to the Covenant of Generations, a commitment that has been made and that has not been amended so far, to compensate for the small increase in social benefits in relation to wages. It was therefore normal and rather welcome to devote as many resources as possible to raising the lowest allowances. It remains that you have applied to everyone an index jump and to many workers and assignees measures that do very badly. For example, young people no longer have access to integration allowances, part-time workers no longer have additional unemployment benefits, pensioners no longer receive an indexation of their tax deduction, and older unemployed people no longer receive supplements. With these measures, you have affected thousands of people who are already fragile, because you have decided to earn three billion savings in social security. Tens of thousands of people are affected. I maintain that your government does not ensure social cohesion. Then I thank you for the interesting questions you asked about company cars. Yes, there is an increase in diesel excise duties. However, I do not think this is an environmental measure; it is rather a budgetary measure. It could have an environmental impact in order to discourage citizens from choosing diesel instead of gasoline, the former being more problematic from the point of view of public health. But a shift is a tax transfer. Did you use the additional revenue to further fund the SNCB and offer the people concerned real alternatives to the car? That's where your problem lies. You're taking budgetary action. From time to time, you say they are environmental, but in any case you do not finance SNCB, since you amputate it by three billion euros. Will there be fewer company cars if the advantage is eliminated or replaced by something else, such as a mobility budget? In any case, there will be fewer kilometres travelled. Today, citizens travel daily to work by car because they are obliged to do so. In doing so, they create traffic jams that generate a huge economic cost. You should be sensitive to this because it concerns the business world. The FEB has estimated the cost of congestion and congestion on our roads at some €3 billion. So, with the company cars, we subsidize traffic jams as well as the production of fine particles in the air and the diseases of our fellow citizens. When are we going to change? Doesn't it hurt to see this dormant capital, those cars that don't drive during the day? Would shared cars and more public transport not be economically positive? Shouldn't we invent another way of moving? But this requires comfortable trains, in sufficient numbers and on time. The linear austerity measures you have decided with Minister Galant at SNCB level are catastrophic from an environmental point of view. Don't be surprised at the bad mood of the workers! We have to go back to reason. I have a lot of hope because something extraordinary happened this weekend in Paris. Such unity at the global level is rare. We have to give the government time to turn around. I hope that next year I will be able to withdraw my first criticism of this government on budgetary matters, namely that this government is climate-apathetic. Through these measures, the government undermines social cohesion and a form of fog is maintained. This government and members of the majority are multiplying promising plans and resolutions: the fight against poverty, the fight against violence against women, the occupational and social integration of persons with disabilities or persons of foreign origin, the reconciliation between private and professional life, the fight against social dumping, etc. Of course, on principle, we applaud. But without means, it is in total contradiction with other policies that you decide. It is a question of camouflaging inertia and, even worse, negative measures towards the people concerned, for example the disabled and the declared will to end the price of love. No more than the previous governments, you do not act in this regard. In the area of public health, the reforms announced are characterized by so many renunciations. In the reform of hospitals, you have given up harmonising salaries between specialist doctors. The reform that has been voted for in psychotherapy is now being addressed by psychiatrists' lobbies, some conservative universities and certain behaviouralist currents, while in public health, the issue of mental illness is essential. Being able to treat them properly through psychotherapy can make huge savings in health care and the use of psychotropic drugs. Really – and this is the second element I want to highlight in the discussion of your budget – this budget does not ensure social cohesion. That is the second reason why we will not support him. The third element is the economy. If at least the measures you are announcing were really in favour of economic development and a better shared prosperity! Mr Finance Minister, your economic reasoning has remained blocked in the seventies and in the theorem of Helmut Schmidt, the former German Chancellor, according to which today's profits are the investments of tomorrow and the jobs after tomorrow. In other words, that it is enough to promote the profits of companies, especially the big ones, the multinationals, for our economy to function. However, this has not been the case for a long time. The economy was financed, as I said earlier. Profits are no longer investment and employment but dividends that escape to tax havens or social hells, those countries where they produce at lower cost under deplorable social and environmental conditions. As far as the previous ones are concerned, your Government does not foresee any counterpart from the economic world in terms of economic activity and employment in relation to the specific measures intended for them, in this case the reduction of social contributions. You sign a blank cheque or you're content with vague statements of intent. For example, that of the president of the FEB which I ask only to believe, but I see that this is not what has been happening in the business world for 20 years. The measures have been added in favour of the business world – I have quoted the notional interests – and, however, it is evident that it is mistreating the world of work, that it is eliminating jobs to no longer end. You are not planning a reform of notional interests, yet costly and ineffective. No conditionality is given to aid granted to the world of business. We only find vague promises. Similarly, the orientation of our economy towards future sectors such as green technologies, energy savings and renewable energy is insufficient. But we need to position ourselves in the cutting-edge sectors of tomorrow. On the tax shift, I won't be too long, since we'll be approaching it on Friday. In any case, I say it is a huge waste of public money. When I say "public money", it is rather the money of social security and workers. The measure is insufficiently geared towards low and medium wages. It is, of course, more so than the Di Rupo Government's Competitiveness Pact. However, starting in 2018, you will remove the contribution reduction plan. The result is a flattening of the curve, as I will prove to you in support of Friday. The creation of jobs related to tax shift is anything but impressive, given the previous forecasts. The cost per job created is indeed enormous. That is the third reason why we will not be able to support your budget: it is not economically efficient. It is not enough to give gifts and blank cheques to the business world. Aid must be oriented and conditioned. Moreover, a budget should enable a State to operate for the benefit of its citizens: to fulfil its legitimate, authority and safety tasks, to ensure redistribution, to promote rail mobility and to finance services offered to the public. Indeed, when we talk about the burden of taxation in Belgium or in other countries, we have to look at the services that are being rendered. Let us be honest: a budget is made up of revenue and expenditure. Like the previous government, which included colleagues from the PS and the Sp.a., as well as those from most of the parties of the present majority, you are drawing on the rope of underutilizations of all kinds by targeting the budgets of the public administrations, by delaying – as the Court of Auditors points out – the necessary investments, by introducing inefficiency, by organising the demotivation of the public service workers. And you still want to accentuate this logic by pressing the accelerator but without clarity on how you will reduce spending on it. I come back to the reform of the administration: 750 million euros will be needed in the long term to finance the tax shift, of which 100 million euros for 2016. In the context of the budgetary discussions, on 16 December - that is, 15 days in the year in which you will have to achieve these 100 million savings - you are telling us that you will discuss this with Mr Vandeput, Minister of the Public Service. There's no clarity on how you're going to work. You practice magic thinking and self-persuasion in a quasi-theological way in the field of public finances: we will spend less and it will be more effective. It's quick to say, but it takes a little more time to get there. The method of saying that we're going to save so much and then we'll figure out how to do it is really problematic. If the Minister of the Public Service had announced a plan to explain to us how he would be more effective, perhaps spending less money, I wouldn't mind. I have no problem with saving money and not spending a euro that should not be spent. This is not the case here: you set budgetary targets and then we will see. This is not a way to work seriously. Even Mr. Piedboeuf laughed at it himself in his speech. You claim to make the public service more efficient by sabrerating linearly in its means, you claim to want to save social security by reducing efficiency and therefore credibility, you claim to be able to make so many comfortable trains that are on time with 3 billion euros less. It doesn't hold the road!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u40	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet said that I was laughing at this but, of course, I was not laughing at it. I laughed when I heard the remarks and I remembered the recent collusion between PS and Ecolo to remember that when the PS finished its Walloon legislature, the first thing he did was to put Ecolo out shouting crazy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u42	I don't see the connection, but either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u44	Mr Laaouej, we sometimes agree, but assume the fact that your party was in the previous federal government and that he also took measures that displease us, that we denounced and that we will continue to denounce from then on...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u46	You'd have to name them to us. I think we've avoided the museum of horrors that we've been living here since two legislatures! I'll take over, Mr. President. I can give other examples. In the area of justice, "pot rotten" laws attempt to close the gaps, objectively improve certain aspects of justice but also violate fundamental rights and do not solve the main problems that are now the problems of justice: its slowness, its inaccessibility for the citizen, its inability also to say the law in complex cases, to arrive at a res judicata, for example, in the matter of financial crime. And that has a huge cost to public finances. After justice, I naturally come to the question of the police and this 400 million euro amendment that we supported when it was presented in committee, but on which we want clarity. What will be the budgetary compensation? It is known that at the end of the fiscal year, this increases the deficit. This may be compensated in one way or another; we will see it at the time of the first budgetary adjustment. How will these means be used? How many ways will they go to State Security? What means will be devoted to the fight against the financing of terrorism, will it affect the terrorist portfolio? How will local police benefit from refinancing once they have been victims, like so many others, especially in the security sector, of previous linear economies? Minister Jambon conceded in an answer to a parliamentary question that I asked him very recently, saying: "The number of federal police has decreased in recent years. This would be a consequence of the drastic budget savings imposed on the federal police and which severely limit recruitment opportunities." We have experienced the same at the level of State Security, which has been heavily penalized in the same way as other public administrations to the point of not being fully able to monitor dangerous persons and prevent terrorist acts. It is only an illustration of the consequences of linear economy measures that can be duplicated in other areas. First of all, we're saving money. In a second stage, we see the damage. And in a third stage, we try to repair in an emergency by mobilizing resources. Finally, you dismember the federal state and make it ineffective and less effective for tomorrow. Dismantling the state is for me the intention of some members of the majority. But why do CD&V and MR follow? It's a mystery. So, fourth, your budget does not allow the state to function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u47	Mr Gilkinet, I'm sorry to interrupt, but you mentioned CD&V. I don't know if I understood correctly, but you're insinuating that we would cooperate in the idea of making the federal state's operation impossible. Of course, that is not the case, not even in the area of safety. In the previous legislature we ensured that 1 400 police officers per year could be recruited instead of 1 100. In this legislature, I see that a billion euros have been added to the budget of the departments. The Moesen standard was intended to ensure that the expenditure of the departments remained the same. This government is a billion dollars above that. So I think it's a strange, potential accusation you're making to this government and more specifically to my party. You say that we are disinvesting in such a way that we make the federal order impossible to function. It seems to me to be the other way around. A billion has been added for the departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u48	Mr Bogaert, thank you for your inquiry, which again allows me to clarify my thinking. I asked why the CD&V and the MR let that happen. I understand, in the leadership of certain parties, including the most important party of this majority, the N-VA, whether that is an intention. But the result of these linear measures of savings, which are decided, including at the level of the police, even if it has been corrected...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u49	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u50	You can't say that, Mr. Bogaert. There have been linear decreases in resources since the previous majority in the federal public service, including the police. And, we are announced here, with regard to the redesign of the administration, 100 million savings in 2016 and 750, thank you for the correction, by 2020. All this, Mr Bogaert, could lead to the dismantling of the federal state. That is not what we want as an Ecolo-Green group. There is a linear decrease in means, at equivalent cost of living. I come to my fifth point. Minister of the Budget, what is expected of a government in the budget period and a minister of the budget is that the account is fair, that the budget is built on a solid foundation. And there too, patatras! The government made an important decision at the end of the summer, a change in the team. A player at the insufficient level was returned to the provincial division. Mr. Jamar has been sent back to the province, he has been replaced by Mrs. Wilmès here. And you mustn't deny it, on the form, it's much better. Bravo, you've made a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u51	Mr. Gilkinet, what division are you playing in?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u52	I am here, as a representative in the federal Parliament, making a presentation that is as clear and as structured as possible. Mrs. Wimès, I said congratulations on your entry into the game. Things are much clearer with you. When asked a question, we have a much clearer answer than we had before. Mr Thiéry, it is a judgment that I fully assume and that I am not the only one to have borne. Moreover, I read the departure of Mr Jamar to the governorate of the province of Liège as a consequence of this assessment. But, again, it only engages me. The problem, Mrs Wilmès, is that we haven't changed the game system. The software remains the same. The account is not good, no more with you than with Mr. Jamar. The tax shift and the budget are built on sand. We could make an inventory of overvalued revenue, insufficient or contested legal bases, measures that are contested within the majority, doubts and more than the doubts of Europe, the Court of Auditors, the Council of State about the measures you propose. Some examples. The tax regularisation, EUR 250 million, has been withdrawn from the texts under consideration since there is a problem of pre-negotiation with federated entities. The Cayman tax, 160 million euros considered by some as not credible. Yesterday we agreed to vote on a few amendments that can improve the fight against tax evasion, but that remains absolutely unconvincing. The Diamant tax has disappeared from your budget revenue. You're still waiting for a green light from Europe. Oil reserves linked to APETRA, an estimated cost by the Court of Auditors of EUR 200 million. The redesign of the Public Service, I don't come back to it, but you didn't explain the first line of how you were going to save money. The tax on intercommunals, contested by the Constitutional Court. The change in index in the public service and for social allowances in autumn: not foreseen and cost of EUR 200 million. The cost of the debt: the Court of Auditors tells us that you have underestimated the cost of the debt and estimated that you would have more interesting interest rates than is possible in the market, resulting in a cumulative cost of €950 million by 2019. Mr Finance Minister, you replied to us in the Committee on Finance that you were relying on quantitative easing and Mr Draghi's statements. The next day, Mr. Draghi made statements and the entire international press and observers said: "What a deceit. It's not what we expected." What about Belgium? What will be the additional cost compared to your estimates?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u53	I share Mr Gilkinet's concern. We have discussed this at length in the Finance Committee. In memory, it is true that the government is relying on a decrease in interest charges of the order of 900 million over the period. It would be very useful if the Minister of Finance could clarify what was happening in the light of Mr Draghi's official statements and the official decisions of the European Central Bank. We're talking about a mass that's close to the billion so we still need clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u54	The Government will be able to respond after the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u55	Please note this important question, Mr. Minister of Finance, otherwise we will reinvigorate you with Mr. Laaouej. Last, perhaps the most surreal example: you are relying on new revenue in the fight against tax fraud to finance the tax shift. I told you that we should not rely on these revenues to finance the latter because we need structural and solid revenues, but you must nevertheless fight tax evasion. That's the least we can expect from a minister in charge of the case. Your own note, which we enjoyed as an opposition party, was disassembled by measure by the members of the majority, including the members of your party. You've been removed from your hands the tools you've been asking for to fight tax fraud. If we add up all that was not financed at the beginning of the tax shift - what the Court of Auditors notes as unfunded - plus the uncertain revenues presented, we arrive at astronomical amounts that do not find financing. It's very serious! This is a budgetary slippage. Today's budget gaps will give tomorrow's austerity measures. Unless the government listens to Professor Wim Moesen whom the chairman of the commission has quoted and decides on other fiscal trajectories tomorrow. Contrary to what other colleagues have claimed, the account is not good. Everyone tells you and you refuse to admit it, it is the fifth of the reproaches we can make to you. In summary, your budget is apathetic to climate. Your budget is not socially fair. Your budget will not allow the federal state to function properly. Your budget is not economically efficient. Your budget is not in balance. These are the five reasons why we will not vote for it. We will not just criticize him and denounce him. This is our role, even if it doesn't like it, even if it makes it react, even if sometimes a word can be raised. There are a multitude of alternatives to what you are proposing. A little courage, a little imagination, a little political vision! Remember, last year, the Ecolo-Groen Group tabled an alternative multi-year budget. We have made our figures public. I expect other members of the opposition to do the same. We continue to adjust it so that we can present a suitable alternative budget in a few weeks or months. For each of the projects you submit, we make sure to propose alternatives. For rail, for energy efficiency, to make more and better contributions to capital, to better distribute the means of tax shift in terms of job creation, to share employment between young and old, through the Tandem plan, to prevent environmental diseases rather than to give in to medical and pharmaceutical lobbies, for a fairer and more efficient tax system! There's no other way! It is possible to do otherwise! It is not only possible but it is urgent and necessary to make greener, fairer, more effective. You will be able to count on us to make proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u56	Mr President, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "historical" is the qualifier that the Prime Minister, absent today, particularly appreciates. For the past year, the Prime Minister has used this qualifier whenever he has the opportunity: on the rostrum, on television, on radio, in the print press, in Paris. Everything becomes historical! It is, each time, a beautiful lyrical flight accompanied by the adjective "historic" to describe its action or one of your measurements. Colleagues, your 2016 budget is historic! Is it historical because it is rigorous? No! Is it historic because it is ambitious? No! It is historical because it is filled with illusions. These are illusions in the seriousness of your budget and in its making. They are also illusions in the respect of promises, your commitments, in your speeches. These are illusions in the making of the budget, so obviously in the financing of your policies. Let's not turn around the pot. The tax shift, which is central to your government's agreement, is not funded. Just read the general statement of your bill. On page 58, we can read: "Compared to the projected trajectory of a balance for 2018, this represents an effort to be made totalling EUR 1.9 billion in 2017, EUR 2 billion in 2018, and EUR 3.2 billion in 2019". In 2019, it will miss $3.15 billion. It is not by distinguishing between, on the one hand, a shift tax that would allegedly be fully funded and, on the other hand, a deficit budget that the hole, Madam Minister for Budget, will appear smaller. The tax shift is an integral part of the budget and, in view of its importance, if the budget is not in balance, it is for something. Things didn't work out when we received reports from the National Bank and the Planning Office. It has been mentioned several times since this morning and you know it: it is 6.6 billion – I would almost dare say: and the rest! – which will be missing by 2020. Yet, in July, everything had begun well. You came to make triumphalist statements; you had your agreement on the tax shift, everything had been settled in a spoon to pot. And patatras! It took many months to see the first written record, a little concrete. And finally, the National Bank and the Plan Office provided you with a newsletter that showed the lack of credibility on the funding side. But without this deficit of 6.6 billion, the extra 100 euros promised per month to increase the pocket wage are flying away; without this 6.6 billion, all the support at the level of businesses and self-employed people is just as likely to fly away. Your various ministers, in all the committees, during the review of budgets and policy notes, tried – some better than others – to convince us that the National Bank and the Plan Office were talking about carabistula. They explained to us that important economic positions had not been integrated and that this and that! I'll take a random example. I have asked a number of ministers about the "redesignation of the State". Very chic as a formula! But it's mostly a big artistic blur. No member of the government – I say well: none – was able to tell us what was hidden under the term "redesign of the state". No concrete action! No, I'm exaggerating: we've been told about bundled purchases for several SPFs. Ah, the good business! By counting large – let's be generous – perhaps you will, in doing so, reach ten million euros of savings. Ten million out of the total 750 planned by 2020, of which 100 are for 2016. You'll agree that we're a long way from the point of view! Even the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has not retained it. This, of course, highlights the hollowness of this measure, which is in fact nothing but wind! The members of your government have been wailing on this subject. I am not in the Finance Committee, but my colleague, Mr Benoît Dispa, who will speak earlier, told me that even you, Mr Finance Minister, were embarrassed when you were asked this question. You have referred this matter to the appropriate ministers, not to yourself, who should still be able to manage and take on this issue, but to the Minister of the Public Service. Redesign is a trend, but for rigor and efficiency, you can go back. There are other holes. I am not going to mention all of them, but there is one that I would like to talk about, because, beyond the hole in the budget, it has a political meaning not piqued of worms. The news is obviously the famous DLU, a potential source of funding. That's what you announced, if I'm not mistaken, in July. You had already said at that time that this would largely fund your tax shift. You first tried to force it, bypassing the Regions, while the Council of State strongly reminded you of the necessary cooperation with the Regions. You then tried to crack down there, by removing what concerns the Regions, the IPP transferred following the sixth reform of the State, the few elements that weigh but are within the competence of the Regions. You tried. The Council of State has always told you no. I heard Mr. Vuye say that now you are complying with the Council of State Act. I think you have nothing to do with the advice of the Council of State. You've tried twice. On the other hand, you're a little more uncomfortable with your commitment to go back to the concertation committee. I believe that you do not respect the opinion of the Council of State at all. But you still don't dare. You had already done the famous 750 million hit on the Regions' backs. You were sure of yourself, you were not mistaken, the Regions had nothing to do with it. You'd screwed up the whole line. This time, you said that you had committed to the consultation committee to return to the DLU. So you're going to go back, if I'm wrong on December 23rd. In the meantime, you have withdrawn your bill. On the other hand, you kept the $250 million in the budget. Excuse me, but in terms of goed bestuur, I've seen much better. I said, "Illusion in the seriousness," and the preparation of your budget. Illusion again in your promises and commitments. And there are many examples, since you have not failed to multiply them since this government took office. Some of his promises flew away a little over a year later. You have subjected all departments to clear cuts. I remember last year's debates on percentages: we go, we cross-check! Without thinking about the most pressing needs, the same regime was imposed on everyone. Even security and the fight against terrorism have been the subject of clear cuts. You have now decided to commit an additional four hundred million. It was obviously time. I find it a pity that it took the terrible attacks in Paris to wake up about the financing of the men and women who guarantee security in this country. When we question the ministers of the interior, justice or defence, in order to know the part which belongs to their respective departments, to know what it will serve exactly and whether it will be assigned to human and structural means, it is radio silence. None of your colleagues will or, more seriously, cannot answer. The numbers speak for themselves. I will not quote them again, except, ladies and gentlemen, if you insist. I'll just tell you that security has a price, which is very high. This cost must be borne. These are not new laws that will guarantee us a more effective fight against terrorism; they are, first of all, means. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the need for a clear commitment to ensure that these four hundred million for the Interior and Justice and the fight against terrorism are not merely a one-shot, but a structural budget. It's important that you don't make us spend an assignment, re-distributions, communicating budgetary vases for reinforcements. No, we do need these men and women who work daily, we need these additional human and material means. I heard the example of the three investigating judges, who were, in disaster, assigned priority to terrorism. What is it? Of three investigating judges in general affairs, who were assigned elsewhere as if the rest of the justice system were now in such a comfortable position that they had nothing to do! When I read the comments of internal intelligence, military intelligence and also the local police, the least one can say is that there are many concerns. Did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the president and first vice-president of the Standing Committee on Local Police resigned a few days ago? I imagine that a few colleagues who are invested in their commune as mayor or alderman are paying attention to it. If they have resigned, it is primarily because they have received no sign of support, of listening from the Minister of the Interior. Do you know that this famous local police commission has not even been consulted on the needs it faces under this €400 million envelope to deal with the current terrorist threat? In other words, this means that the local police are unlikely to receive any of that $400 million. This is a terrible point, and I hope that either you or your colleagues in charge of the Interior will be able to provide answers on this matter. Defence, for its part, has been facing an 11.7 per cent reduction in resources in the space of just two years since October 2014. But at the same time, you will remember that a few months ago, the Minister of Defence made a very big statement: he wanted to triple the defence budget! He wanted to increase from over two billion euros to 6.3 billion euros in 2030, while at the same time the reduction was huge in not two years. Illusion, of course, that this announcement of a triple budget, but after the legislature. I've rarely seen a fish catcher such as this ad. Illusion also in the tax shift, as I said earlier. We'll talk more about it on Friday. Every job created seems to be expensive, even Professor Jean Hindricks says, with a cost of more than 100,000 euros for employment. Illusion of respect for the European commitment, which the Prime Minister had nevertheless reaffirmed. An employment rate of 73% by 2020 represents for your government the need to create 400,000 jobs. We're very far from it. As far as pensions are concerned, we can only regret the fact that you have worked backwards. You reduce the legal age of the pension to 66 or 67 years, completely forgetting the importance of the articulation of professional careers, career adjustments and especially of professional career ends with pensions, painful occupations,... All this is postponed to later. Worse still, the government is repeatedly glorifying the report of the aging committee, which would validate the sustainability of pensions over the long term. What a delusion! What you are not saying, but what is found in the report of the Committee on Ageing, is that, in order to ensure the sustainability of pensions, you have an additional 360,000 migrants by 2025, out of 1,350,000 by 2060, who would be working from the first day they set foot in our territory. That's what your government is planning. Let us not forget the risk that pension budgets and expenditure will shift, in the absence of career development and consideration, to the sickness and disability department. Promesses also flouted in the field of health. And yet you promised you'd go up and down. Budget 2016 destroys the promises your Prime Minister had made. He said in this forum that he guaranteed a growth rate of 1.5% every year until 2019. In 2016, the growth standard will be 0.7%. With this growth standard, Minister De Block says it will make extra money. Of course, but your promise was to guarantee an annual growth standard of 1.5%. Failure to comply with this commitment is a clear step backwards for many patients as well as for many healthcare providers and a series of new advances that will have to be either eliminated or postponed. We saw him, by the way. In terms of health, all of you in choirs said that strengthening the attractiveness of health care professions is a priority. However, the measures taken for 2016 are to undermine the duty stations of general practitioners, a major issue, and to make significant setbacks for front-line nurses, home nurses. Illusion still and non-compliance with the promises in the construction sites that should have been completed. This is the case with the SNCB, the structural plan for the overflight of Brussels. They were promised by the end of the year, but they're not here. To take the example of SNCB, this is obviously the equation of impossible or even utopian. More than 2 billion savings in 5 years, 2,700 jobs that have to go into the trap. I still hear the Prime Minister say "jobs, jobs, jobs." And you would combine all this so-called with more punctuality, with journeys, yet lying. So many savings you want to make only for savings. Yet the citizens are still waiting and waiting. Where you should have arrived with a plan for the benefit not of savings but for the benefit of commuters, mobility and the environment, today the policy is to push people from the train to the cars, further burdening our roads. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I cannot also speak for a moment about your government. In this one, the least we can say is that there have been episodes of political divides between the parties of your majority. These episodes didn't miss. First of all, under the impetus of the N-VA president, a specialist in shocking ideas but who often do pschitt. Remove federal family allowances for refugee children, including war refugees. Patatras. The Council of State said that nothing to do with the federal level, moreover the proposal could not even reach the stage of consideration. Another shocking idea is to reduce employers' allowances for local authorities. We pleaded in committee. Mrs. Kitir, you were there. We argued in committee when we examined the tax shift. But no, the government said: there is no question of reducing employers' allowances for local authorities. Last shocking idea: to eliminate social integration income for alcoholics and drug addicts. There has not yet been a government decision. We are waiting to know whether it will also be for smokers, obese people or those who do not exercise. I don't know. How far are you going to go? I don't know. But this fracture in your government is not just outside your government. This fracture is also within it. Between the hard right, the right, and the centrists of the CD&V, trust is not there and we understand it. This divide is also reflected in cases that show the violence of some parties that confuse reform with brutality, the violence of some parties that want to hurt the most fragile among the most fragile. Some examples are the long-term sick and the disabled. Basically, it's their fault, if I understand you correctly, if they're sick. What you want is to make them guilty of being sick or disabled. You want to punish them. Excuse me for a little, but it's at the heart of a policy that confuses reform with brutality. Second example: women, and especially women who benefit from an income guarantee allowance. They are women who work part-time, often with low incomes. You have cut by half, and for some of them by three quarters, the supplement that gave them a slightly higher income than the unemployment benefit. By doing this, you not only create a trap for employment, but in addition, in terms of social approach, you are very far from a social minimum policy. The third example is a few days ago. These are also people with disabilities. Definitely, your government is hard and violent with people with disabilities. You have filed a project via Minister Sleurs, which would now prohibit a cumulation between the income replacement allowance and the social integration income or the income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA). Even though there are already a whole series of rules on prohibitions, do you know that if you achieved a complete ban on such cumulation, you would plunge many people with disabilities into poverty? The decision has not yet been taken, but it has been sent to the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. I urge you to reverse this totally unacceptable project. These three examples of cases, where some have made or want to make decisions of unprecedented violence in 2016, reveal even more than others the fracture between the centrists and the hard and brutal right. In your government, it is also a delusion to talk about, an illusion of unity that reigns among the partners of the government team. I will conclude by asking you not to do as in 2015. You promised to move forward on some construction sites and you didn't. The citizens are still waiting! Since we are at the end of the year, I will make two wishes. First of all, I hope that in 2016, your government will be looking for a more humane policy. That is why I have quoted these three dossiers which confuse reform with brutality. I hope that your government will have a vision and a course in the medium and long term, not a strategy of closing the most visible holes, filling the most glaring gaps, leaving everyone else behind. The second wish concerns your budget. The year 2016 will have to be devoted to the search for the six billion and the dust that is lacking in the financing of the tax shift. Let me quote Émile de Girardin in this regard: "Strictness is a clarity that dispels illusions". I suggest that you draw on this quote in 2016, first and foremost for the management of your budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u57	Mr President, ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the annual debate on the budget is always an opportunity to take stock of the overall economic situation in the country. As this is the second year that the government can submit a full-year budget proposal, it is an opportunity to see whether the first fiscal measures taken, in particular for Budget 2015, are achieving the economic results announced and whether the economic indices are favourable as a result of the government's fiscal policy. That is the essential part of a budgetary debate, and that is what I am going to focus on. It must be recognized that your government is still far from the goals it claims to achieve. If I take up the latest indicators published by the National Bank on 11 December, we can see that Belgium's GDP growth forecast remains below that of the euro area average and that of the European Union average comprising the 28 states. That's a cause for concern. Worse, according to the National Bank's forecasts, the difference from this average would increase in 2016 to the disadvantage of our economic performance. If I take the European forecasts that were published in autumn 2015, for this year, Belgian GDP would increase by 1.3% compared to last year, while that of the euro area would increase by 1.6% and that of the Twenty-eight would increase by 1.9%. This puts us in the wrong share of European states in terms of economic growth. And yet, this is the government's leitmotiv: support for economic growth. For 2016, Belgian growth would be the same as in 2015: 1.3% according to European forecasts, while the euro area would grow by 1.8% and the Twenty-eight by 2%. This gap remains proof that your government is not meeting the goals it set itself. The Belgians' economic sentiment is not fixed and confirms that economic growth does not have the pace and pace it should have in our country. The economic sentiment indicator is a composite indicator, as you know, derived from five confidence indicators, including industry and consumers. As a reminder, this indicator is calculated as an average value index equal to 100. Last November, Belgium stood at 103.5, the Eurozone at 106.1 and the Twenty-eight at 107.6. This is proof that once again Belgians have less confidence in their country's economic growth capabilities than other European states. That is to say, your project and the measures announced are not enough to restore the confidence required for economic growth. Your strategy, as I have already said many times, although it may receive a certain degree of satisfaction, in particular as regards the reduction of employer contributions - which should have been modelled otherwise but this is a debate which will be discussed again in the framework of the thematic discussions - remains focused exclusively on a supply policy and not on demand. Support for economic growth requires work on both levers of growth. All States that have chosen to favour either the only demand support policy or support for supply policy alone are countries that have deviated from the return to strong economic growth. In this respect, I would like to point out that, in parallel with this weak economic growth which characterizes our country, we do not have a favourable rate of unemployment. Our unemployment rate was 8.4% in 2013; it rose to 8.5% in 2014 and 8.7% in October 2015. On the other hand, in the other European countries, on average over the euro area as a whole, this rate tends to decline. This heavy trend, which aggravates the unemployment rate in Belgium, must therefore challenge us. It is not enough to increase efforts to promote the competitiveness of enterprises, because an employer will not recruit only because its employer burden is decreasing. Of course, the cost of labour is involved in the decision, but it is not the only determinant since markets are also required to sell products and services. Nor are the indices favourable in this respect. The turnover in industry continues to decline. In August 2015, the trend in the extractive and manufacturing industries showed a decrease of 1.9% from July 2015 and a decrease of 7.8% from August 2014. The same applies to retail trade, i.e. the internal market. On the basis of an index equal to 100 in 2010, total retail turnover, which was still 127.6 at the end of 2014, fell to 106 in September 2015. That is to say, the prospect of the internal market is also in the dark. You'll say there's still exports. It is often considered that gaining market share outside is the best way to promote business competitiveness. But again, the trends are less favourable than you expected. Belgium's main customer remains the European Union. Moreover, Belgium's share of exports to the Union has increased from 70.5% to 71.4%, reflecting our strong dependence on the ability of other Member States to absorb our services and products. The withdrawal of capacity from certain markets in these States is unlikely to encourage exports. Therefore, a diversification of trade relations into other clearly identified markets is needed. I recognize that this is not your exclusive competence. But this government maintains at great expense a Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, whose use is always questioned. It would probably be appropriate to make this economy, this redesignation within the government, before going after other expenditures. I read his policy note, in which he himself had to admit that Belgian exports outside the European Union fell by almost 22.6% in the first three quarters of 2015. The trend, too, is not very favourable. I will not talk to you about what contributes to the competitiveness of companies, the development of scientific research, which must be said to be undermined, in any case its federal character, by the choices you have made. These are purely ideological choices, inspired by one of the parties of the majority government. Let us be more and more clear on this issue! At a time when Europe realizes that it must bring together its efforts in the field of scientific research, the spread of scientific research on Belgian territory is perhaps the most obvious admission of the weak understanding of the evolution of what needs to be done in the field of scientific policy. It is quite insulting for the intelligences of this country to have to be constantly confronted with ideological choices that undermine their ability to participate in high-level research programmes, whether international or European. We continue to believe that you have not supported domestic demand enough. And this is the wage policy that needs to be reviewed. It must be admitted that the European states with the highest rate of economic growth are those that have agreed to free up wage policy and to return to free bargaining between the social partners in order to determine the standard of wage growth or, in any case, to give employers full freedom to determine wage growth. We must stop saying that it is the wage that is the enemy of the competitiveness of enterprises. That is a false economic argument. It is not the net wage in the hands of workers that is the enemy of the competitiveness of enterprises, it is the rate of social security contributions. On this issue, there are trends in your policy that deserve to be welcomed, even if there is perhaps a need to model the reduction of social security contributions, particularly for the benefit of the lowest incomes, i.e. those which are created the least quickly in companies or in a number of market or non-market services. Of course, you will answer that, to support purchasing power, there is tax shift. We will return to that on Friday in the general debate. I demonstrated to you in committee that by 2019, the reality of the net salary increase in your pocket was derisory of your initial promise. We are very far from everything that was heard not only in the election campaign by a number of parties of the majority but even statements that your government was still making last July, when it announced that one in two households would benefit at least 100 net euros more per month. I've shown you that it's at best between 30 and 60 euros, and yet, not even for every other household. I turn to the budgetary guidelines, that is to say, the choices of priorities and policies reflected in your budget. The Court of Auditors was not wrong about some imbalances, and not just about the tax shift. It has also pointed to many problems, for example, for revenue shortfalls, a problem in the expected revenues of the National Lottery, the lack of clarity for an economy expected by a restructuring of the federal administration, a loss of uncompensated revenues in social security. On the other hand, the evolution of social security revenues suggests a lot of difficulties for your government in the long run. This is probably an aspect that you do not want to deal with but which will leave you with a few surprises in the coming months, even if it would not displease some members of your majority to see the Federal Social Security Policy gradually crumble and that, therefore, if certain deficits were to grow, it would certainly be a reason to move forward institutionally towards certain transfers of competences in this field. But, regardless of the development of social security and its revenues, it must be noted that you have made, now for two fiscal years, a choice of drastic cuts to the detriment of the sovereign functions of the State. This will be discussed in detail during the thematic debates. I would point out, however, that the justice system in this country is one of the worst financed in Europe, because we spend exactly 0.7% of GDP on the financing of justice policy, compared with 2.2% on average for the other European states. It will still be necessary to say here and demystify the discourse of those who claim to want to ensure the security of citizens by continuously reducing the level of budgetary resources going back to functions as essential as Justice and the entire police service. This morning, at the Conference of Mayors, we had the presentation of the Conference of Chiefs of Corps in Brussels. On the benches of the majority, Brussels police areas have often been tried. But, do you know that today, in Brussels, when 10 years ago there were exactly more than 1,400 federal police officers available to take on the tasks of supporting local police, in particular to deal with all public demonstrations – there are more than 800 on the territory of the City of Brussels alone a year, there are exactly 166 federal police officers available to support Brussels police areas, especially for law enforcement operations? Those who say today that it is the Brussels police areas that would not assume their ability to carry out tasks such as maintaining law and order or to deal with emergency situations are heavily misleading public opinion. The 6 police zones are able to align, within a very short time, the equivalent of 14 platoons – a platoon consists of 40 personnel. Do the calculation, this represents 560 people available by Brussels police zones. There are still 166 men in the federal police! When you know that to have a person in the field, there are six others who are in recovery, sick day, etc., you divide the 166 by 7 and this is what the administrative director-coordinator of the Brussels district has daily to deal with any major event in the capital of Europe. I'll tell you what's going to happen in this country one day. You will have the legitimate and justified emolument of the European institutions who will come to say that a country which cannot take on the protection of the European and international functions of the capital which welcomes its institutions is no longer worthy of having them in its territory. This will not be the result of the lack of capacity of Brussels police areas and mayors to carry out their tasks, it will be the result of the deliberate and systematic disinvestment carried out over the past several years by the federal government to the detriment of the European and international capital of Brussels. I say this, because the speech that is continually aimed at making it appear that Brussels would be in default of its missions is beginning to become unbearable when we know what the outcome of the deliberate choices of the government is, and when we learn that the chairman of the Standing Committee of the local police has resigned with his deputy to indicate such basic things, namely that the Ministry of the Interior does not even respond to his calls – even if, in extrememis, the minister received them after the announcement of their resignation – and does not even react to implausible findings. I'll give you a few. Today, the federal police are no longer in a position to conduct certain public procurements to deliver all the uniformed equipment to all police areas in that country, and especially to those which have a law enforcement operation to assume. At the moment, the cart which the federal police, particularly through the general reserve, must make available to police areas for such operations is incomplete, defective and is no longer maintained. Even better! We heard this morning at the conference of the mayors the zone chiefs inform us that, in some cases, the federal police helicopter could not fly away because there was no longer enough money to pay for its fuel. This reality has been observed by heads of bodies. Do you know that when the federal police – who sometimes have to carry out exercises to prepare for law enforcement operations – go to Bourg-Léopold for this purpose, they have to borrow from local police areas the equipment, including tear gas, necessary for such exercises. As a result, there are no longer even enough stocks for the federal police to be able to carry out their tasks! That is the result of the policies chosen by your majority, your government and the N-VA! Insecurity in Brussels is the result of your decisions, not of the failure of the Brussels mayors. So, yes, it must now be made clear that your budgetary policy choices are threatening the very core of a state's essential functions. You have opted for linear, relentless, cost-cutting measures to the detriment of core missions. These policy choices lead to a threat to the most essential functions. You don't want to hear it. I also note that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration constantly denounces the strong growth of political refugee candidates. What we see in the budget: no growth that takes account of this reception of political refugee candidates, except to understand that you will come to explain to us that it is no longer necessary to comply with our commitments in accordance with the Geneva Convention, a speech that has already been heard on some benches but which is unworthy of a State that wants to enforce its authority. Instead, take the example of Mrs Merkel, who knows at least how to assume the international obligations of a State with regard to the reception of political refugees. Gradually, this government and this majority are shaping the dark future of a state in perdition. It is your choice, your responsibility, but you will no longer be able to camouflage it for a long time to public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u58	Mr President, today's debate mainly focused on the tax shift. The superlatives were not spared by the members of the majority. There are, of course, good measures; that would be lacking. There are certain steps in the right direction to reduce labour costs. Herman Daems put it this way: "The discussion about wage costs and the tax shift goes in the right direction. Of course it is too little, but strong movements are not possible in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for a little temperament in your triumphalism. We shall see that on Friday when we have the debate on this subject on the ground. I haven't only heard superlatives. There was a good news show among the members of the majority, a bit Verhofstadtian, but there were also conflicts between the excellences about the underfunding of the tax shift. That reminded me a little of the time of purple and Verhofstadt. There was then a name for such conflicts, namely the open debate culture. I advise you to urgently invent a marketing term for your disagreement. The budget before us today also has some purple features. I am thinking, for example, of the payback effects. Not the minister, but the economist Van Overtveldt could write very biting about it. Those effects are back today. I am always surprised that a government knows so specifically what these payback effects will be. It is also estimated that the other classic, the proceeds from the fight against tax fraud, EUR 550 million in income and EUR 460 million from the caiman tax, will be beautiful, round and above all high. However, there is no certainty about this. According to the majority it has been carefully estimated, according to everyone else not. I'm afraid so. We'll see. It is certainly my job to be very vigilant about this. The contested speculative tax would yield EUR 30 million. Highly uncertain and not immediately an impressive amount for a tax on which so much has been shackled. The total unnecessary Senate costs are almost double. This is a symbol tax that one tries to sell as a major measure. Or take the sugar tax. We are working hard to sell this tax as a so-called health tax, with the aim of adjusting the unhealthy behaviour of consumers. However, it is either one or the other: either for health reasons one aims to avoid behaviour, or it is the intention to raise higher tax revenues. When I look at the budget, the intention is clear, namely the second. The tax, which also applies to products which do not even contain sugar, must be paid. It has nothing to do with people's health, but everything to do with the unhealthy budget. The tax increase on alcohol is another one of those. In January and November the excise duty on alcohol already increased considerably. That's not very original. The previous governments have already opted for this easy-to-use solution. According to the World Health Organization, the Belgian drink less alcohol than the average European. There is therefore no reason to re-tax alcohol consumption, but it is, of course, very easy to make the budget sound. It is difficult for the sector, which will undoubtedly lose sales. It will weaken their competitiveness vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. So I'm very curious if your story of jobs, jobs and jobs will also apply to the many producers and distributors of alcoholic beverages. In addition, you take such measures to the consumer. He will purchase his spirits, but also the products endorsed by the sugar tax more and more abroad. The Dutch webshops are already responding to the tax increase by offering free deliveries in Belgium. Consumers will also speculate abroad, and as a result the revenues of taxes will be highly uncertain. You are looking for money to finance your measures, but it would be a credit to you if you had the honesty to communicate it instead of pretending to be engaged in health policy or fighting speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, some changes have been made to the budget. The horrendous attacks in Paris have resulted in an additional EUR 400 million from the government in the fight against terror, as it calls it, after the budget had already been submitted to the European Commission. In July, the government already decided on the 2016 budget to delete a similar so-called security commission of then EUR 200 million for 2016. The 200 million euros provided for the aftermath of the foiled attacks in Verviers. The intention was, however, that it was clearly stated at that time that it would be permanent and would return annually. However, in order to save, that measure was initially deleted. You can save on a lot of things, and I will make a whole series of suggestions for savings later on, but you should never save on safety. The protection of citizens is essential. In practice, only a small part of this EUR 200 million went to additional equipment for the police and the like. The main amount of the 200 million euros has been used to pay back invoices from the Justice Department. Of course, this will not make the public safer. So I would have liked to have received an answer today, one that until today had to be kept secret to the question to which the EUR 400 million, which is now registered, will be spent? It is already very hard to see that a tragedy such as that in Paris was needed to persuade this government to release these additional security funds in 2016, and it would be a credit to you if you would let us know exactly what you are going to invest in. So perhaps you can tell us immediately whether this time it will be structural measures, year after year, and not a one-off measure. Apart from payback effects and overestimates of growth, and perhaps income, your budget also contains underestimates. I am surprised, for example, that the costs of the asylum crisis have not yet been addressed in today's debate. When I look at your budget, those costs are greatly underestimated. In the 2016 budget, the government estimates an additional 350 million, exceptional and one-off, for asylum and migration. That amount is not only far too low, it is not at all a one-time thing. This government is making a fool of itself if it thinks that everything will be over from 2017. You can't consider it a one shot at all. This asylum crisis is structural. Allow me to make a comparison with a number of neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, the National Bank says that the asylum crisis will push the budget in the red in 2016 and 2017. In the Netherlands, mainly due to the refugee crisis, the structural budget balance will deteriorate to -2.5 % of GDP in 2017, according to the National Bank of the Netherlands. We hear the same signals in Germany. In 2016, the additional cost of asylum reception for the budget will be 10 billion. The budget surplus will disappear there completely. The only way in which the Belgian Government can prevent the asylum crisis from breaking a big hole in the federal budget is by using a questionable trick and keeping that cost out of the budget, which several countries in Europe are proposing. I would have liked to have heard more about this today. Will you indeed do so that way? What will be the impact of this on public debt? Thanks to low interest rates, the cost of public debt is lower today, but we must nevertheless note that public debt is increasing. Since the accession of the current government, an increase of 7% has been observed. You may welcome the figures that indicate that we are back in the top. After all, this increase accounts for a fifth place in the euro area. Belgium has to put Greece, Italy, Portugal and Cyprus first. With the exception of Italy, these are all countries which, in one way or another, were put up with a rescue package during the euro crisis. I would have liked to have heard from the ministers today how they intend to deal with the reduction of public debt. Will they be in debt disposal? How will they reduce that debt? No answer has been given to these questions. Moreover, there is no ambition in it. However, you can no longer hope that it will happen on the side of debt disposal and that it will not happen by artificially increasing gross domestic product. Drugs and prostitution are already included. It's higher than it used to be. I share the concern of the IMF, which rightly concerns itself about this sovereign debt. You owe a concrete plan of action to the generations to come. I hope you will be able to explain that plan today. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said today about the tax shift, which is inextricably linked to the present budget. That is the essence of today's debate. The government makes two different promises. It has two different objectives in mind. However, it is practically impossible to comply with both promises. In the first possibility, the government admits to the population that the positive projections and the asylum crisis will continue to cause debt and that a budget in balance will not be possible in 2019. In other words, the objective of putting state finances in order is completely abandoned. In the second option, the current government chooses to go for additional income and savings, which will increase the burden on the population. Then she chooses to close the gap. In that case, you should opt for a budget in balance, but then you should let go of the objective of your tax shift. It's one or the other. Minister Van Overtveldt, apparently you're the only one who thinks it's both possible. You hold on to a structural balance and you say that the tax shift is completely funded. Everyone else points to a hole that's much bigger. I am not talking about Minister Wilmès' two billion or Mr Van Rompuy's three billion. The National Bank has calculated that there would be 6.6 billion deficit in the tax shift by 2020. Compared to the National Bank, both Minister Wilmès and colleague Van Rompuy have been very conservative in your estimation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u60	They add it up because they make the calculation until 2020. I also know that Minister Van Overtveldt says his calculation goes until 2018. Even then, his reasoning is not correct because the National Bank's study has already calculated an underfinancing by 2018. That argument certainly does not apply. For the sake of clarity, you say that you are striving for a structural balance in the budget. The period of nominal equilibrium has long since been over. But even that structural balance is not feasible. To achieve a budget balance by the end of 2018, our economy needs to grow by more than 2% annually. The optimism of this government is apparently very great, because all the forecasts indicate that we are not going to make it. Growth in Belgium is lower than growth in the neighbouring countries. We're below the EU average. For the coming years, too, the forecasts say that we will remain below that euro area and EU average. It seems, therefore, that the government's measures do not pay in the medium term if we can believe the European forecasts. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to the explanatory statement of my amendments, I would like to make some fundamental Community comments in the general discussion on this budget, as you have been used to in the meantime. My fellow Members from N-VA and CD&V will no doubt remember the great tensions between the Flemish government under the leadership of Kris Peeters, on the one hand, and the federal government of Di Rupo, on the other hand, when it came to the so-called usurping powers. In the meantime, for those who have erased this from their memory along with their election promises, those of usurping powers are powers which actually belong to the Länder, whereas the federal government wrongly spends a lot of money on them. In 2012-2013, in the period of the Peeters Government and the Di Rupo Government, very strong arguments were made from Flanders to remove those powers from the federal budget and transfer the corresponding funds to the Länder. It may be said that then Flemish Prime Minister Kris Peeters was very keen on the subject, but we also heard very strong demands from the N-VA. You all know what happened: the sixth state reform overwhelmed the entire debate and, as in many cases, no action was taken on this issue. Meanwhile, all current government parties declare their agreement to perform the sixth state reform loyally. Throughout the discussion in 2013, the federal administration drew up an overview of the usurping powers. I have made the exercise for you by putting that note from the federal administration next to the 2016 budget for comparison. Our inventory shows that it amounts to about EUR 3 million in pure usurping powers and EUR 234.5 million in mixed usurping powers, which is almost eightfold of the estimated revenue from your speculative tax. Above all, I noticed that the vast majority of these purely usurping powers can be found in the budget headings of N-VA Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of N-VA, I have tabled amendments to strengthen those forgotten demands of former Prime Minister Kris Peeters. Our amendments remove those items from the budget and deliver the corresponding funds to the Länder. I can only count on the support of CD&V and N-VA for these amendments. Colleagues from CD&V and the N-VA, I am, of course, also counting on your support for my other amendments, for example my amendments on the Senate. Fortunately, the total unnecessary Senate has cost less than before, but that small fall in the budget is far from being proportional to the massive decline in political activity and is even less justified when it comes to the political relevance of that institution. Bart De Wever recently said quite rightly about this institution, and I quote: 'Delete that Senate and invest that budget in strengthening our state security'. Flemish Interest takes De Wever's word for it. I have therefore tabled an amendment to delete the Senate's contribution to the 2016 budget and transfer it to the resources allocated to the State's security. I know that in the past year my fellow Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have already made a lot of spreads and can handle a lot of spates, but it would be painful for them to go further in this by not approving my amendment. My other amendments concern, in particular, savings, which do not even affect ordinary citizens or businesses for a change. There is still a lot to be removed from your budget. A classic of ours are, of course, the donations to the Royal House and to the Princes in particular, but the subsidies to Islam may also be cancelled, as far as I am concerned, or the funds to the Interfederal Equal Opportunities Centre. That centre acts as an inviolable inquisition court, which has not yet brought the integration of foreigners any closer. As far as we are concerned, that centre, as a supreme thought police, should not restrict freedom of expression further and should be abolished. These are all examples of little bits, which help to tackle the expenditure side of your budget. However, you can also make very large savings on that side. I'll finish with that. As far as the contribution to the European Union is concerned, I found in your documents only for the functioning of the European Union the amount of EUR 3 209 880 000 which Belgium gives to the European Union to cover its needs for 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is not only making the budgets of the Member States go further in the red because of its failing policy on the euro and on the foreign crisis, but also an enormous amount of money for the European Union itself, as it were a gift to the European Union as a thank you for its bad policy. You must all be aware that this can be reduced for the European Union. Surely you should know that many agencies in the European Union do not use up their resources year after year and transfer them to the next year? As long as that money does not all come back to the Member States with a distribution key, it is insane to keep pouring more into a bottomless pit. The current policy of supporting Greece to maintain the euro is also a mistake. We are talking about billions of dollars that are going to break down the taxpayer very badly. I come to my conclusion. It could be worse, but it's not because it's less bad than the previous government that it's good now. What Flanders really needs simply cannot be in a Belgian budget and certainly not in a budget that overestimates growth and income and underestimates expenditure or even keeps it out of the budget. The Flemish Interest will not approve the budget submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance on the increase in his salary. Indeed, I saw in the budget that it increased from 223,000 to 226,000 euros. I was wondering what the reason was, since your colleagues did not benefit from it. Maybe it's a fee for the tax shift... It was a small parenthesis, minister. Colleagues, it can be said that in this budget, which summarizes government policy, there is a great winner and a long list of losers. The winner is the one who benefits from all these gifts – I don't have any other term, Mr Van Rompuy – in the form of reductions in employer charges, professional discount exemptions, etc. These are employers, employers, 1% compared to 99%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we listen to Mr Van Hees. There's really too much noise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u63	Mr President, thank you. This great beneficiary of the budget is also a little bit the intruder of the tax shift. Initially, this measure involves reducing some taxes and increasing others. It's a pretty simple operation. However, there is an intruder: I am referring to the beneficiaries of the reductions in employer contributions, according to the Plan Bureau, of €4.2 billion. You will see the importance of the gift. With this measure, the government is acclaimed by employers' organizations. Trade unions are not really the friends of the government, but employers' organizations "feel listened" by it, as the title Le Soir today. I can only congratulate you on this, even if the public remains restricted. Even the IMF tells you that you'd have to look at the fortunes side to see if there's any money to take. I would remind you that 1% of the population in Belgium owns as much as 60% of the least wealthy. It would actually be interesting one day to go to that side. In fact, the president of Mr. Van Overtveldt and Mr Vuye once said, I remind him – it was a statement that marked me – that if he were shown that there was a way to reach the richest 1%, he would sign with two hands a proposal that would go in that direction. This is perfectly feasible with the millionaire tax developed in a bill that we tabled in the House. Of course, none of this can be found in the tax shift, despite the CD&V's demands. This party called for a tax on wealth and a real tax on capital gains. With the speculation tax, you don't really get the added value. You have not been listened to in the majority. I don't know how many trade unionists are still in your constituency on the CD&V. In my opinion, this is shrinking more and more. The more you swallow snakes... are there any more? But it still decreases, Mr Bogaert. That's for the big winner of your budget. Then there are the losers. There's a little more people here. The first category of losers: the workers, through the loss of income since the tax shift, is three stages of increasing inequality. We first have all these gifts to the employers who make up the big piece of the tax shift. Then we have this transfer of VAT to the tax of natural persons, i.e. the decrease in the return of a progressive tax compared to the increase of taxes that are not progressive. This means an increase in fiscal inequality. Then, within the tax of natural persons, in my view, there is also an increase in inequality. The Minister of Finance has been asked several times to have a decile distribution of the impact of the tax shift. He was asked once, twice, three times, four times, five times. Every time, he told us it was unavailable. We did the exercise on the basis of some simplifications but I think the results are quite significant. 34% of the tax shift on personal taxes benefits the least wealthy 50% and the rest, i.e. twice as much, benefits the richest 50%. This means that the tax shift, even within the tax of natural persons, is an operation that increases inequality. We remember the previous attack on index jump. It was last year. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors points out that a jump in the Pivot Index is expected in the summer of 2016. However, this is not planned in this 2016 budget. It is therefore legitimate to ask whether the government does not have a second or a second index jump in its boxes. We can only ask ourselves the question! It is also interesting to note the development of tax revenues as planned in the 2016 budget. If we look at the taxes that are increasing in this 2016 budget, taking into account excise duties, VAT and household allowances, we can see that the budget is forecast to increase by €3.4 billion, while the PPI is decreasing by €900 million, which is four times more than a reduction in the tax. It is interesting to see this only when reading the 2016 budget. The second loser is employment, despite what can be said. You are quoting the figures from the National Bank, with that old dogma that is fairly well shared in this assembly, according to which the more gifts we give to the bosses, the more jobs there will be created. On the CD&V side, dogmas are not surprising. It is in the very philosophy of a party attached to Christendom. In any case, it is a great dogma of capitalism. Every dogma needs its high priests at the National Bank. If you look at the National Bank's management records, you will learn that one in two governors is a former Chief of Staff of the Prime Ministers. Should we not question the independence of this kind of person? Isn't it finally a think-tank of the government with a slight independence? It is also interesting to note that the government is counting on the comments made by the National Bank or the Planning Office when it suits it. On the other hand, it is reserved when it does not fix it. With regard to the financing of the tax shift, he forgot this and that. But in terms of jobs created, the National Bank is telling the truth! Except we don't take into account the effects of bounty. Thus, for example, Fortis receives all these gifts. Fortis is only a boon because the bank has its strategy, its performance targets. For example, it plans to eliminate 1,050 jobs and distribute 2 billion dividends to its shareholders. It is not Fortis Belgium who decides, but the mother house in Paris. On the other hand, the Prime Minister said that the issue of competitive disability is being resolved, that this disability will soon be behind us. But our neighbouring countries are doing the same thing. In doing so, you haven't solved anything. Nor do you take into account all the negative effects of your policy on public employment, which is disastrous. Finally, it can be said that employment is rather one of the losers of your policy, even if you repeat "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" All day long. Indeed, it is sufficient to take into account concrete cases such as that of Fortis or Coca-Cola and to refer to the comments made by Mr. Van Overtveldt, who said it was a pity, but that BNP Paribas Fortis' staff had to make a strategic effort. In doing so, 1,050 jobs are eliminated. It's okay! Mr. Van Overtveldt also said that jobs might be created, but that this was not safe and that next year or years, employment might be reduced. In any case, for him, one thing is certain: if there had been no tax shift, the situation would have been worse. At this game, we can make a lot of prognosis. To this is added the question of the price per job. If we take the calculations of the Plan Office for 2016, the tax shift will cost 1.9 billion per 7,000 jobs, which is 273,000 euros per job. This amount is higher than your salary, which I mentioned earlier, minister. In 2021, there is a cost of 6.6 billion per 45,000 jobs, which is EUR 147 000 per job. Imagine how many public jobs could be created with such a manna! Losing number three: public services. There is something interesting to note about this. This is the cliché which says that a left-wing policy widens the deficit to make social spending while a right-wing policy imposes budgetary rigour. This is the usual cliché except that we see here that your policy is not budgetary rigour, far from it. It is a question of widening the deficit but not of social expenditure. It's more to give gifts to the richest and the employers. You have both shortcomings: no budgetary rigour, no social policy. It's pretty grieving! Indeed, by taking the figures from the Plan Bureau, the tax shift is not a neutral operation, since we have to find 6.6 billion to finance it. Ministers put forward a series of responses stating that the Plan Office is wrong because it does not take this into account. I don't think your answers were very convincing in committee because they reveal a lot of contradictions. One example, the wellness envelope that is included in the tax shift perimeter when it suits you and, when it has to be justified for funding, you place it outside the tax shift perimeter. This perimeter is variable depending on your interest. If we listen to the European Union, which is our budget guardian even if I do not like it, it points out for 2016 a difference from the government. As early as 2017, there was an incredible difference in the assessment of the structural balance, as the government projected 0.5% while the European Union forecast 2.2%. The difference is not thin! There's debt, too. I would like to point out that the Minister of Finance was moral to Greece, which had to respect European commitments. When I look at the evolution of debt in Belgium, it is not extraordinary. The percentages and the ratio of debt to GDP have been revised downwards. Last year's budget provided for 105.6 per cent in 2014 and 105.1 per cent in 2015. Today, we see that we are at 107.2% for 2015. Every new year, it is said that this will decrease. This would reduce to 107. How come your last year's estimates were wrong? How could we believe that your new estimates will be more correct? In any case, when we look at those European diktats that have been voted by most of the parties represented here, such as the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance (TSCG), we find that they are far from being respected. At the PTB, we've always denounced these diktats. However, it seems to me that those who vote should respect them. For the period 2014-2016, it was necessary to reach 0.7 per cent per year, a reduction of 2.1 per cent over three years. The reality, even if you admit your 2016 figure, is that you're getting a 0.3% increase instead of a 2.1% decrease, which is equivalent to a pretty impressive 2.4% difference in GDP, especially if you normally expect a 2% reduction per year as early as 2017. That makes billions and billions to add to the addition of your budgets. Because of this lack of rigour, you carry the charges further and further. Who will then pay for the consequences? I think it's public services, unless you raise taxes again, as you did with the tax shift. If you do not touch taxes, I think it is the public services that will suffer a real massacre at the chainsaw, which they are already suffering now but at an accelerated speed. A fourth category of losers is pensioners. Pensioners are really your target. I don't know what they've done to you, but there's a real hard time against them from this government. I sum up the attacks on pensioners: work up to 67 years, early pension at 63 years, reform of supplementary pensions, availability of pre-pensioners, abolition of the pension bonus, abolition of the bonus for diploma, soon the point pension, non-indexation of the pension tax reduction, not to mention the index jump which obviously affected pensioners and which was effective this summer and last summer, whatever Mr Bacquelaine said. I asked him a written question to that effect, in response to which he was obliged to admit that the index jump had taken place despite what he had said in plenary, namely that they were fables. These attacks on pensioners are numerous and you don't go there with a dead hand. And what are you doing with the tax shift? With the tax shift, you're still increasing the bill for pensioners. On the one hand, new taxes on consumption will have to be paid (VAT, excise duty, tax on furniture). As the Court of Auditors notes, social contributions decrease by €746 million while alternative financing increases by €658 million. This means that pensioners pay their own pensions, since they finance social security. On the other hand, that of the tax of natural persons, we realize that these are the big forgotten ones, since they have nothing in respect of flat-rate charges, that they can possibly receive something in terms of rates provided that they reach the 30% band and that they do not benefit from the tax-exempt quota, since you neutralize it beyond the advantage they would have had. I come to the fifth category of losers – I assure you, there are only twelve. These are young people, whose unemployment rate is very high. The IMF has reported this again. They are suffering the double penalty, since, as old people are being made to work longer, jobs are occupied, and those who do not find employment are excluded by you from unemployment. Not to mention that you go so far as to increase the VAT on young people's homes. Minister, you've come back a little bit. You've raised the ceiling, haven't you? However, this tax will apply to some of these establishments. Many young people and house managers do not understand such a decision. The sixth category consists of the unemployed. When you see that ONEM's benefits fall by 510 million in your budget, a 6% decrease, I'm not sure it's due to sudden growth in employment, but more because more and more unemployed people are being excluded. This makes it possible to reduce unemployment benefits. The seventh category of losers is the sick. At one time, there was a growth standard of the order of 4.5% that corresponded to real needs. Then, according to governments, we moved to 3 per cent or 1.5 per cent. Now we're half that percentage. We are far from the real needs. It is recalled that the proposal for a budget "Health care" was rejected at the General Council of INAMI, in particular because this body denounces an amount of sanitation of 3 billion by 2018. If you're looking for money for health care, there's plenty of money! All you have to do is lower yourself to pick it up... Madam Minister of Budget, I advise you to take a look at the kiwi model, which allows these multinationals to compete through a tendering system for pharmaceutical companies. And just out of the 25 best-selling and most-reimbursed medicines in our country, you could save 450 million euros! That's not to be overlooked! This kiwi system exists in New Zealand and the Netherlands. You seem interested, Madam Minister. I think you're going to dig into the kiwi model... The eighth category of losers is all about security and freedoms. You are asking us to vote for an amendment of 450 million for the fight against terrorism. How are these 450 million broken down? We don't know, it's a blank check we have to sign you. This is a problem, we would like to know more. Members of the majority refer to an American Patriot Act in the fight against terrorism. However, this law has shown its ineffectiveness in the fight against terrorism and serious abuses of freedoms. The two targets are thus missed: security and the guarantee of freedoms for the population. This is the problem with these measures, which are very general and target the entire population instead of a targeted and effective measure against those who threaten our society through their terrorist actions or plans. No later than yesterday or the day before yesterday, the union leader of the Military General Service Centre (CGSP) said that the military presence on the streets was totally useless. If it reassures people, the real effectiveness is zero. Perhaps targeted and truly effective measures should be taken, for example on the financing of terrorism. When we talk about financing, the majority suddenly becomes fry. When we propose amendments, in particular to the Treaty on the exchange of tax information, so that this information can be used in the fight against terrorism, the majority vote against. One wonders where the real will of the government is and whether it does not use this fight against terrorism for unrecognized purposes. Ninth category of losers, litigants. There would be a way to write a book on the problems of underfunding justice. We note that the level of funding for justice is much lower in Belgium than in most of the countries around us. The grunt movement of investigating judges, lawyers and overcrowded magistrates is growing. The government's response went into a rotten pot. Minister Geens' first remark was that this plan was a budget. This means that we are going to solve budgetary problems by creating expeditious justice, at least for the ordinary litigants, while the richest are able to benefit from criminal and other transactions. Tenth category of losers, municipalities. The tax shift is financed with the money of others. It is a special feature of the federal level to pursue a policy with the money of others, but without their agreement. The problem with the municipalities is that they have more and more burdens, strict budgetary management imposed by the European Union, and less and less revenue, especially because of the tax shift. In addition, all variations and delays in the additions to the personal tax (IPP) should be added. One could add the taxation of intercommunals. You really put the communes in a very difficult situation. There are many mayors or municipalists in the room. I think that, even in the majority, perhaps not publicly but in part, they agree that the municipalities are in a very difficult situation and that we should think about remedying them. Eleventh category of losers, the penultimate category, are commuters. We made a lot of hay on a five-day strike announced by the railway unions. But who is responsible for this strike? It is the government or, more specifically, Minister Jacqueline Galant that imposes totally unacceptable and unrealistic savings from a social and organizational point of view, with 6,000 to 7,000 fewer jobs. It's not just a big deal for the staff. This also has terrible consequences for commuters in terms of train offers, punctuality, prices and even more in terms of safety. To force drivers to work twelve hours is criminal! We were already calling Jacqueline Galant "Jacqueline Chance," in connection with the Clifford law office. I wonder if we won't have to call him "Jacqueline Buizingen" soon. To impose such conditions is indeed to plan a rail accident in the years to come. It is very serious, much more serious in any case than to strike. You are struggling with the strikers, but perhaps the real cause should be the irresponsible public transport policy, especially if we are to defend the environment. The environment is exactly my twelfth and last loser. Belgium has been the laughing stock of the whole world in Paris: a government that refuses to really invest in the energy transition, a sector where thousands of jobs could be created. Not virtual jobs like those promised to you at the National Bank, but real jobs in the environment, in the energy transition, rather than continuing a policy that favours corporate cars, as the IMF has criticized it again or to make extraordinary gifts to Electrabel. Electrabel hit the jackpot three times: for the first time with old power plants that are being revived, for the second time with cracked power plants that are being revived. You have seen the reaction of the Land of Rhine-Westphalia: "The Belgian government is playing Russian roulette. Tihange is a ruined reactor." Finally, Electrabel receives a third time the jackpot with a ridiculous nuclear rent of 150 million euros, whereas it can be estimated that there will be an easy yield of 700 million euros per year. This makes a gain of 550 million euros per year for the next ten years, or 5 billion! While the electricity bill is increasingly high for the population, especially in Flanders (it has been calculated that the electricity bill of households is increasing by 50%), this multinational receives three times a gift with the extension of the power plants and a ridiculous nuclear rent. This policy is indeed in favour of the richest. You are faithful to your reputation as the government of the rich. But the population in all its components is largely losing. It's normal, you can't enrich each other sumptuously and take care of the well-being of others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u64	Colleagues, I suggest that you add Mr Dispa to the general discussion so that the Finance and Budget section can be completed. The Chairman of the Finance Committee will conclude the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u65	Mr President, thank you for inviting me to speak. I'm doing it to align myself with the timing of the ministers. I was ready to speak later this evening, when the Budget and Finance section would be discussed more specifically, but I am very happy to speak now. As a preamble, you will allow me to welcome the work of the services of the committee, since they have been very effective in following up our work, both from the point of view of translation and from the technical point of view. On behalf of the members of the committee, I would like to thank them. This applies to all committees, of course! In the meantime, I would like to thank the ministers themselves, as they have been very diligent. Ministers, you are still showing a great deal of patience with parliamentarians today. In addition, you have provided answers to the various interventions. You even brought us a few beers yesterday afternoon, but it is above all the quality of the dialogue that we were able to establish that I wanted to greet. Finally, as long as I am there, I would like to reiterate my thanks to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This will not improve your number, because when a member of the opposition speaks of the good of a committee chair, it may be misinterpreted by members of the majority. We've had somewhat heated discussions. Each time, Mr. Chairman, you have tried to put yourself above the majority-opposition divide and to ensure that everyone can express themselves and be respected. Thank you for that! Minister, a year ago, I was telling your predecessor, Mr.Jamar, that I would be the first to congratulate him and applaud him if he could achieve the goals he had set for himself on behalf of the government. These were three ambitious goals: restoring fiscal balance for 2018, reducing our country's debt rate and reducing the share of public spending in GDP. Although we could diverge on the method and means of achieving them, I agreed on the need to pursue them and at least ready to accompany these efforts and to welcome, if necessary, its success. Unfortunately, I will not be able to do so to him since Mr.Jamar has left the government. I will not repeat Georges Gilkinet's comments on him. I don't think he went down to provincial division, but the fact is that he won't be able to put on his hat that pen of success he wanted to achieve. Madam Minister, you have taken these goals on your own, although you could have introduced some caution. But no, very proudly, you announced that you are maintaining these objectives, including the goal of restoring fiscal balance by 2018. I will be the first to applaud you, to congratulate you, I will even bring a basket of beers in my turn to greet this success. But I can tell you that I don't believe it anymore. The year 2018 is in two years. Objectively, in the analysis of the 2016 budget that you are presenting to us, to hear and to read all the external opinions that have been formulated, I fear that the structural balance will not be right when we examine the 2018 budget of the federal state. I really hope to be denied, if you do, you will be able to point that out to me. But I have some concerns. The first is the economic situation, to which Olivier Maingain referred earlier. In macroeconomic parameters, there are a few elements that are rather favourable. Oil prices have never been so low in seven years. This will certainly not last, but you can benefit from it at the moment. Interest rates are also historically low, so much so that the Debt Agency has indicated that the need for financing could be substantially reduced, as it is on the order of EUR 1 billion. Yet, despite these positive elements, we must note, especially when we read the latest report of the National Bank, that the macroeconomic forecasts are not entirely up to the optimism that you have shown. From this point of view, the somewhat funny tone used earlier by Benoît Piedboeuf seemed irrelevant to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u66	The figures for growth are those indicated by Mr Olivier Maingain. For 2016, the National Bank announces growth of 1.3% below the euro area average. Inflation returns. It is forecast to rise sharply - 1.9% in 2016 - mainly due to the increase in indirect taxes. I would really like to share your optimism, but we do not find in the figures at our disposal any reason to reassure ourselves of the supposedly positive impact of your socio-economic measures. The second element of concern and scepticism with regard to your ambitions is this famous tax shift, which we will be discussing extensively on Friday, since we will have the opportunity to examine it in more detail and to vote on it or not. Some measures will be voted on by the CDH since, basically, I do not share the criticism of our colleague, Mr Marco Van Hees, who presents this tax shift as a gift to companies. No, frankly, there are necessary measures. This reduction in labour costs will certainly have positive effects. She was expected, she was necessary. Beyond the positive measures, however, there are still elements of dissatisfaction or concern. First, a word about the government's method. Paradoxically, we received studies from the Office of the Plan and the National Bank on the effects of this tax shift well after the government's decisions. For good management, it would have been more reasonable to have the studies done and then to make decisions based on their conclusions, so as to choose the most positive scenarios, particularly in terms of job creation. You first made the decisions, and then you sought the advice of the Planning Office and the National Bank. This is a curious way of working, especially since you refused us in committee the opportunity to hear from the representatives of the National Bank and the Plan Office. The majority as a whole felt that this was not useful. The chairman of the committee was ready to hold these hearings. They could not stand, perhaps because the matter was too sensitive, but I really hope that we can hear the Plan Bureau and the National Bank in the Finance Committee sooner or later. I believe that this would enrich our discussions and perhaps allow us to object to or at least better understand the differences in the return effects of the tax shift. This would also make it possible to better objective the cost of creating jobs expected through the tax shift. Mr Minister, you told us in committee that no matter how many jobs were created, whether they were 40,000, 60,000 or 100,000, any job created was good to take. Of course, but there is reason to wonder about their cost. According to the National Bank, the cost of creating jobs would average €103,245 over the five-year period. According to the Planning Office, over the same period, the cost of creating jobs would amount to €146,448. Different methods have apparently been applied, but in both cases the cost is still very high. This raises questions as to the means that you have used in the tax shift. Could not the effect in terms of job creation have been achieved at a lower budgetary cost than that? Another element of concern or dissatisfaction with the tax shift and without anticipating the debate on Friday is the impact on the other levels of power. I would like to recall that the Plan Bureau, in the report you have commissioned, states very clearly that the tax shift leads to a deterioration of the account of the Communities and the Regions, as it clearly states that local authorities suffer from federal measures on PPI. This is an important debate that goes beyond the strict framework of the federal government, but we cannot, in a state like ours, ignore the impact of our decisions on other levels of government. If you say that the tax shift will put wind in the sails of the Communities and the Regions, objectively, the figures of the Office of the Plan do not accredit your assumptions. I would like to point out, and I am not alone in doing so, that the budgetary neutrality of the tax shift remains largely problematic. I would like to recall that in the pre-election period, most parties, certainly not the MR, had put forward tax proposals by restricting themselves to strict budgetary neutrality. This was particularly the case with cdH. This is all the more necessary as we are in a period of deficit reduction. In the present case, budgetary neutrality is not attained, except by a lull from the Minister of Finance, who, beyond the missing billion, suggests that his tax shift is balanced and that if public finances are not, it is no longer quite his problem. I have a bit of the impression that, despite the good agreement between the ministers, in this case, that of the Finances, the Budget, has been a bit tough because you have pre-empted all the possibilities, even if they are random, of compensation and funding, and then come what can be achieved with regard to restoring the balance of the budget. Objectively, on the government's fiscal trajectory, there is cause for concern. Dissatisfaction relates to macroeconomic parameters, the tax shift, and the trajectory itself. I base this opinion on the report produced by the experts of the European Commission. Of course, we can be glad that we have fallen below the 3% deficit, but we cannot ignore the widening gap between the government's and the Commission's forecasts of our country's structural deficit. But it's an important marker. It is the restoration of structural balance that will achieve or fail to achieve the objectives you have set yourself. If, in 2015, this difference of appreciation is only half a percentage point of GDP, as of 2017 it will be 1.7%. It is on the basis of this difference of assessment that, on a personal basis and on behalf of my group, I have strong reservations about the realism of this budgetary balance in 2018. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again by then. What seems clear is that Professor Wim Moesen, with whom you have worked and with whom you must be authoritative, suggests that we will probably have to choose between the tax shift and the respect of the budget path. The numbers make him right. Perhaps you will deny it, but it seems to me that there is also reason to doubt the voluntarism that you are displaying in the fiscal consolidation path. As part of this trajectory, I wanted to highlight what seems to me to be a huge weakness in your presentation. I want to talk about the question of local authorities. In the general presentation, you announce that their nominal balance will be reduced almost automatically. However, this was a deficit of €630 million in 2014. As an assumption, you believe that in the next two years this balance will be restored. Like the Court of Auditors, I note that it is not the Commission's analysis that does not expect an improvement in the balance of local authorities. In this regard, we find a contradiction. Indeed, on the one hand, you are hoping for a resorption of this deficit. On the other hand, you listen deafly to the messages, although encrypted and argued, that the cities and municipalities send you about their financial situation. They are under pressure, as has already been said, through various measures that the federal government has taken. I would like to develop a new analysis which, moreover, is not controversial. I want to say to our colleague Piedboeuf that the Union of Cities and Municipalities works with both the regional and the federal governments. The measures taken by these two levels of government can have a negative impact on local authorities. It is not a question of blackening the picture here, but simply of basing itself on objective figures. The Union has just updated its calculation of the impact of the measures taken by the Federal Government on Walloon municipalities. Without even mentioning pensions, since the figures are quite different when it comes to the accountability mechanisms to be imposed on the municipalities, and therefore if we stick to the provisions in terms of police, taxation, fire department, policy of the big cities, the impact will be €201.5 million. It is more than 10 per cent higher than that experienced this year. There is therefore cause for concern. Once again, I want to relay this alarm signal from the local authorities, not to defend them as such, but simply because your budgetary perspective, which incorporates the restoration of their balance, is contradicted by the measures you impose on them. This really is a contradiction that you will only be able to overcome by providing a real response to the criticisms and calls made by the cities and communes of this country, or by putting them in real difficulty to the detriment of all our citizens and otherwise harming your own fiscal trajectory. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to say a word about the respect for the main budgetary principles, a question which the minister must be sensitive to, albeit a bit technical. For budgetary experts, and in particular for those of the Court of Auditors, a minister must be obsessive when it comes to respecting the main budgetary principles. It is, in any case, in this way that he leaves a trace in history. Objectively, this 2016 budget does not plead, Madam Minister, in your favour of this point of view. We had a debate in committee on the principle of provisions. Everyone agrees – I will come back to this point – on the 400 million provision. In any case, no one's criticizing her. There will probably be some comments to make on its use. But it is always that, given the urgency, the constitution of a provision can defend itself. However, the accumulation of provisions, their amplification over time, is problematic in terms of budgetary speciality. I would like to take this as proof of the use made of it in 2015 since a first provision had been made. The Court of Auditors itself pointed out that the so-called security appropriations had been used in 2015 for other purposes. I am thinking in particular of the liquidation of the outstanding invoices within the Justice FPS. I am also thinking of the payment of Belgocontrol bills. This is objectively far from safety requirements, except to consider that aviation safety is also part of this provision. But I do not believe that this was the objective when it was created. So there's something to ask about the speciality of the budget. This technique is probably not recommendable. It can be used as a back-up in an emergency situation, but more respect for the principle of budgetary speciality can be expected at the parliamentary level. The same applies to transparency arising from budgetary programmes. The consolidation of a whole range of core allocations within a single subsistence programme undermines transparency and management oversight that can be done on the basis of the budget. And I think, Madam Minister for Budgets, that you must be careful to ensure that the next copy you will be presenting to us is not subject to criticism by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u67	If, as Mrs Fonck, our group leader pointed out, in her speech, we are very dubious about the credibility of this budget, it is because both in revenue and in expenditure, there is objectively an accumulation of uncertainty. I will not speak of mistakes because this is a term that you have challenged in committee. And, under no circumstances, I don't want to be derogatory to you. But at the very least there are many approximations, even talking about unknowns to use a completely neutral term. In all cases, regardless of the term chosen, the accumulation of these uncertainties is objectively detrimental to the credibility of the figures you present to us. In recipes, the enumeration is too long. I'm gonna be synthetic. This Cayman tax, whose yield rises from 120 million euros to 460 million euros, we will still have to make sure that the figures on arrival are exactly the same as those you announce. The Court of Auditors has in any case pointed to a great deal of uncertainty with regard to the parameters you have used and with regard to the risk of avoiding the Cayman tax. As far as tax regularisation is concerned, Mrs Fonck has mentioned this: 250 million are still in your budget. However, it is known that the performance of this type of measure is highly volatile, not to mention the jurisdictional conflict with the Regions. 250 million for the reform of the sicafi framework while, unless I am mistaken, discussions are still under way with the financial market control body. As far as diesel excise duties are concerned, you have an additional EUR 70 million, but this estimate does not take into account changes in behaviour. As far as the speculation tax is concerned, we are talking about only 34 million, but we are pretty sure that we have to see avoidance behaviors that could be detrimental to this performance, even if it is already relatively insignificant. There are other approximations. I would like, for example, to stress the VAT on school buildings. The FPS Finance estimated the cost of reducing VAT on school buildings at EUR 100 million. We support this decrease but, objectively, we cannot share your optimism about the return effects since of this reduction of EUR 100 million estimated by the FPS Finance, you do not have any of it in your 2016 budget. There's no impact. You are therefore relying on a return effect which should correspond to a 250% increase in the construction of school buildings in this country. Objectively, it's totally unrealistic. If the return effects are also poorly calculated with regard to VAT on school buildings, we can legitimately also question the return effects related to your tax shift. Estimates have fluctuated. You finally withheld, unless I made a mistake, an amount of 225 million euros. You referred to Austria. Understand that from the point of view of the opposition it is difficult to endorse and validate the figures, since so many uncertainties persist as to these return effects. Uncertainties about tax revenues as well. The Court of Auditors has stressed that you fully integrate the effect of tax measures into advance payments. That's probably very optimistic. You might think the numbers won't make you right. I would like to conclude, with regard to the uncertainty of revenue, by referring to the judicial procedures that are under way and which potentially affect the revenue you have included in your budget. I am thinking of subjecting intercommunals to corporate tax. You expect 330 million euros in 2016. However, an appeal has been lodged and will probably be renewed by the cities and municipalities against such subjugation. There is therefore uncertainty. This also applies to the Diamant tax, of which we have talked a lot. You expected EUR 50 million, but it is still not being implemented because the decision of the European Commission is being delayed. You made it hard for yourself to get an agreement from the Commission. Obviously, this agreement is not on the table. Other remedies are also pending, in the case of fairness tax or excess profit ruling. These are not insignificant amounts. The excess profit ruling, a law passed under the purple government in 2004, is currently under investigation by the Commission. In total, this legal mechanism still covers an amount of EUR 700 million, which could be considered as State aid. If this were to be the Commission's decision, there would be bad news that would be added to all those I have listed. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to go back to this provision of EUR 400 million for security and reiterate, with my group as a whole, that the resources available for security are necessary. It's not about meggling here. However, I was surprised in committee that this EUR 400 million uncompensated decision could have been taken without the Budget Minister being associated with it. That's not insignificant. Today, we still do not know how this provision will be used. You can't stop me from thinking that it's used as a screen. Indeed, you continue to advocate for credit cuts in the departments of authority, reductions in staff, operations, investment. This is true in many cases. Mr. Maingain was eloquent earlier in denouncing the state of the Justice Department and the police services. I would like to point out that the State Security has its appropriations reduced by 12% compared to the 2015 adjustment. The judicial police is losing 4.35% of its appropriations compared to the 2015 adjustment. There is therefore a mechanical effect of the savings measures you have adopted, which have led you in some way to the impasse. Therefore, you make the argument in the provision that you are doing what is necessary in relation to safety requirements. But it's the tree that hides the forest! There is a dual language: on the one hand, mechanical measures to reduce appropriations, including in the departments of authority, and on the other hand, to compensate for the negative effect, the argument of the provision which does not deceive a great deal, since this provision, when it is not known what it will be used for, will obviously not compensate for the means which you amputate to the detriment of the departments of authority. This applies to the Asylum and Migration sector, since here too, you are creating a provision hoping that it will be considered exceptional by the European Community, but at the same time, you have reduced the means of Fedasil between 2015 and 2016. The means are amputated to a large extent: 5%. Then, you create a provision to fill the gap that you yourself have created. In terms of budgetary control, that is a real difficulty! In any case, this is not a matter of good management! Similarly, the underutilization of appropriations seems questionable to me. It is in fact an underutilization, which is not the result of an overestimation of appropriations, but of a mechanical decision by the government. Since October 12 of this year, there has been an administrative freeze on spending. When you arrive, you can enjoy under-consumption, but the expenses will catch up with you. They will necessarily have to be honoured as soon as the 2016 budget has been released. The means will have to be used to compensate for the blockages that you decided at the end of the fiscal year. This good management cannot be satisfied with the lack of information given by the government with regard to the redesign of the State. This has already been mentioned several times. We could put an end to this controversy and cut the debate if the government were to appear before Parliament with precise indications of what is meant by the redesign of the state: 100 million in 2016, 750 in a few years and we still have not, unless you know more about it within the majority, received explanations giving a little credibility to this measure of economy. You will not be able to prevent us from thinking that there is an attack on the credibility of this 2016 budget and on the trajectory that aims to restore budgetary balance. The debate is interesting. It will necessarily end with a majority vote against opposition, since this is still the case with regard to budgets. This debate could at least serve something if we could, together, agree to try to remove the uncertainties and cut short the controversy, by deciding together to apply this budgetary monitoring that several groups have called for. The Open Vld did so by the voice of its group leader, the MR does not oppose it, I think. Could we not agree together that, throughout the 2016 financial year, we will implement a budgetary monitoring? I dare not believe that you have not done so in the government, because the savings measures you have adopted must be properly implemented and I therefore assume that this monitoring exists. Let us take it to the level of Parliament so that we can both reassure ourselves of the credibility of the figures. The Court of Auditors will send us its observations shortly, which will most certainly include an analysis of the implementation of the 2014 budget. It will be a somewhat special year, but on the basis of this report, we could, if the President agrees, proceed in the Committee on Finance and the Budget to a non-suspecting financial year, that is, regardless of the vote on the budget. This would be an analysis of this report to determine the extent to which the 2014 income and expenditure projections are audited. This is an exercise that we could do at the outset of the Court of Auditors' analysis. I think it is essential to continue this exercise. I hope to see the ministers in committee presenting us with a methodology that will allow us to reassure ourselves of the federal state's fiscal trajectory, otherwise we will remain with the feeling of this dual language. It is understood on the benches of the majority that the volume of ministerial departments' expenditures is increasing – unless I am mistaken, we have spoken of a billion and a half. In the general presentation, however, it is announced that linear reductions will continue in terms of personnel, operations and investment. How can we reconcile the two sides of this discourse? The only way to do this is by using this monitoring. That's the wish I'm expressing. Let us agree that, as early as 2016, we will develop a method to verify the achievement of the expenditures and revenues contained in your 2016 budget. That would be the only way to address the legitimate concerns expressed throughout these discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u68	Mr President, Minister, Minister, first of all I would like to thank everyone for the debate we have had in committee on both the budget and the tax shift. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, because they have had to respect very strict timing. If we read today's report on our budget negotiations and tomorrow's report on the tax shift, I believe that a great deal of work has been done and that it has given us a great deal of insight. Budgetary discussions I've been going through them for many years now, give you more insight than anything you read in the newspapers. We hear the opposition, the majority and the government which is given the opportunity to give a detailed explanation. The Court of Auditors and the European Commission have examined the budget. There are the studies of the National Bank and the Planning Bureau. All this creates insights that we did not have before the discussions. Everyone, of course, draws their own conclusions. I thank the committee for concluding these discussions in two weeks. That timing was indeed too tight, but we are not going to have that discussion now. I think we have had a good debate. I would like to draw some conclusions from a number of things that we have learned. We have very low economic growth. That's the way it is. It concerns 1.4 in 2015, 1.3 in 2016 and 1.6 in 2017. This is significantly below 2%. Despite the weak euro, low inflation, low interest rates and cheap oil, we are facing a Europe-wide economy that is growing far too slowly and is causing a lot of problems. It is not just a question of budgetary problems, but also of employment. This is also why this tax shift is so important. We inject a total of 2% of EUR 8 billion of GDP, of which EUR 5 billion in purchasing power and some EUR 3 billion in competitiveness. The latter is essential for a small economy like Belgium. I have just reviewed the figures of the National Bank. Net exports of goods and services decreased by 0.4% in 2014. Net exports decreased by 0.5 % in 2015. He was scheduled to take over in 2016. Competitiveness is therefore essential. That is why the tax shift is still the most important thing for me as far as the tax shift is concerned: to reduce the burden on labour, to make labour cheaper, and to maintain purchasing power. The National Bank and the Planning Bureau are clear about this: this will create jobs. One talks about 45 000, the other about 65 000. By the way, the National Bank stated last week that 114 000 jobs will be added in 2015-2017: 40 000 in 2016 and 42 000 in 2017. So there are possibilities. The government has taken a risk. She could not have done anything and said: growth is low, bad luck. But no, it has taken the risk of encouraging purchasing power through taxation and promoting competitiveness through the lower employers' annex. That's a risk. The payback effect is not evident. We will have to wait and see what this will do for employment. This is not clear for the budget either. But the government had no other choice. I think it is a good choice to take the initiative, even if there are risks involved. Another point I do not agree with at all is that this government would pursue a kind of deflation policy. When I hear the opposition sometimes, it is as if the purchasing power is being used. However, all statistics show that the available income will increase by more than 1% in 2016, by 1.3 % in 2017, and this is still up to 2.25 %. Saying that the population will be impoverished in the next few years is therefore wrong. Real disposable income is rising systematically. I believe that the purchasing power measures of the tax shift are also an important element in this. If we can also stimulate employment, this will automatically increase disposable income. I therefore totally disagree with the criticisms made by the trade unions. Some trade union leaders say that the budget, the index jump and that sort of thing are social horror. I believe that the index jump is necessary for our competitiveness. Our net exports are down. I have rarely seen a net drop in our exports two years in a row. Secondly, we must also continue to encourage purchasing power to support available income. The trade unions criticise certain savings. So far, however, the savings made by the current government are not social horror. The consultation has been respected. In this respect, our party of Christian Democrats can find itself perfectly reflected in the reform policy pursued. However, the problem remains budgetary and remains very large. I have made this quite clear. Hendrik Bogaert just gave me the figures. Between 2010 and 2014, the government achieved a structural improvement in our deficit of 1% of gross domestic product. So in four years' time, a deficit of 1% of gross domestic product has been eliminated. In 2015 and 2016, a two-fold structural reduction of 0.4% of the deficit will also be achieved. This means 0.8 % over two years, which is better compared to the period between 2010 and 2014 on an annual basis. However, it is very slow. Those who believe that today's public finances can be reorganised in the morning and deficits reduced to zero are mistaken. They don't know the history of this country either. It's a very difficult operation. We read that these reduced deficits for two thirds are due to lower interest rates. That should encourage us to be cautious. The discussion we have had in committee is not a discussion on whether or not the tax shift is neutral or what the budgetary incidences of the tax shift are. No, we have to make sure that in 2018-2019 I do not want to talk about the structural deficit or the nominal deficit to move towards balance. The European Commission has entrusted us with this balance. However, the Court of Auditors and the studies carried out by the National Bank of Belgium and the Planning Bureau also come to the same conclusion, namely that we may have a deficit of about 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2017. I am not talking about a structural or nominal deficit. This means that if we want to achieve a balanced budget at European level in 2018-2019, we must find EUR 8 billion. Now we are at nine to ten billion, and if we want to move to zero, it will take about eight billion in absolute figures. Those things must not be added together. We have discussed this with the Finance Ministers and the Budget Ministers. Indeed, the explanatory statement states that two billion in 2017, two billion in 2018 and 3.1 billion in 2019, a figure that I mentioned a few weeks ago. If they're added together, we're going to be in that order of seven to eight billion. It is assumed that the tax shift is in balance, but that cannot be said now, and the discussion in committee has taught me that too. In fact, there are many measures in the tax shift which are very difficult to assess, such as cayman tax, withholding tax, tax fraud and speculation tax. The proceeds from tax fraud seem not to be in the calculations, while others say they are. The payback effects can also be difficult to estimate. One thing I've learned: on paper, it can be true. We in Parliament must therefore continue to look into this. It is not difficult to reduce taxes; anyone can do that. On the other hand, it is difficult to find compensation. I take the capital tax or the added value tax as an example. When introducing a capital tax, account should be taken of historical added value, so that SMEs are spared. A value added tax must therefore be gradually built up and it takes three years for this tax to raise EUR 250 million. The experts have also explained to us that it is wrong to think that an added value tax can fully finance the tax shift. I will come back to that later, because I think that is a missing link in the discussion. The point I want to make now is that capital taxes always carry a risk, but we have to take that risk. We're all in favour of the Cayman tax. I would also like to thank the opposition for the support it gave yesterday, which strengthened that tax. However, its revenues remain uncertain throughout the discussion. The main concern is that in 2018-2019 we have to go to a zero deficit. We must continue to argue for that. Professor Moesen says we will have to choose between the tax shift and the budget balance. We don't have a choice. We have signed a stability pact and the finance and budget ministers in committee have said very clearly that we will respect that stability pact. The governor of the National Bank has said that we should not be under any illusions and that this will certainly not be relaxed within a few years. We must certainly also strive for a balance in order to be able to pay for the costs of ageing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u69	Mr Van Rompuy, I am trying to understand your reasoning. To that end, the simplest way is to ask you a question. Will it be necessary to make additional efforts in the amount of EUR 8 billion for 2019? Do I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u70	I said, eight billion euros in total. It's not my statement, but that of the Governor of the National Bank, who said that in 2017, the deficit (financials behoefte) would be 2.5% and that we should reach in 2018 or 2019 – it depends on whether we put ourselves on a nominal or structural level... There are also structural efforts. There's also the interest charge. So there are a number of things. Either way, by 2018, eight billion will have to be found cumulatively, not in one year. We have also had discussions on this in committee, and our ministers have made this very clear. Mr Laaouej, a great effort will have to be made over the next few years, that is clear. Another discussion is whether the tax shift will stimulate sufficient economic growth. The Minister and I also said it a few weeks ago: if economic growth does not recover, with 1% of economic growth being two billion, then we will have consequences not only in terms of the budget but also in terms of employment over the next few years. However, the government has taken the risk of spending to boost purchasing power and competitiveness. This is the only way to stimulate not only employment in the next few years, but also budgetary restructuring. It's very slow and difficult. We are looking at the primary expenditure, which Mr Dispa and Mr Bogaert have also mentioned. Departmental expenditure increased by one billion last year, from 51.3 to 52.3. The Moses standard of nominal freezing expenditure is not respected by the government, nor can it be respected by the government, because we are faced with additional needs in the areas of security, asylum and migration, justice and so on. It remains a very difficult task. Public expenditure is being reduced. Global public expenditure is falling for the first time in a long time. In 2014 it was 51.1 in 2016 it will be 50.5. That's about a very slow rhythm. Whoever has the illusion that that can be realized on a me and a you, is clearly mistaken. Our group has already said that it will approve the 2016 budget. It contains elements for stimulating and restoring the economy. It is slow, but in the right direction and is socially defendable. In this way, we will have to promote and restructure the economy in the coming years. The positive thing about government policy is that pension measures will almost halve the cost of ageing by 2060. This is also apparent from the statistics that I have just looked at again. The fact that the government is extending working hours and trying to keep people working longer is very important in the long term. Demographic development will also put pressure on public finances. I read last week that within 40 years there will be 15 to 16 million Belgians. Infrastructure will be needed, such as schools and homes, and more investment will be needed in public transport. Public finances will therefore be put under pressure by demographics. All that has to be affordable. I conclude that the proposed budget is a new step. The tax shift is also a new step in the right direction. Several committee members have said that we will have to monitor its implementation over the coming months and years. That's obvious. It's not a winning game. We must not think that we are now on a train that will take us to a safe destination in the coming years. The refugee and security issues will also put pressure on budgets and society. There's gonna be a lot of new needs. Think about education and job creation. Everyone says that the refugees who come here will have a job in six months. Forget it. All this will require enormous efforts and the government must and will play an important role in this. The reduction in public expenditure will be difficult. The government is doing this work and our group supports it. The fact that our group expresses a few critical reservations is not unusual: it serves Parliament. We're not a mailbox. During the discussions in the committees, both on the budget and on the tax shift, the opposition can express its opinion and the majority can respond to it. The institutions which give us advice must also be taken seriously. In the next few months we will have the opportunity to invite, for example, the National Bank and the Planning Bureau, so that they can explain their views in committee, which are often technically complex and which have many hypotheses behind them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u71	I would like to begin this response by thanking from the bottom of my heart all the employees and officials who have worked hard and hard on this budget, as well as the parliamentarians for the constructive and respectful discussions that we have had. As Mr.Dispa has elegantly done, I would also like to thank the services of the House that have helped to ensure that everything is going well. This budget is indeed in the image of this government. It's transparent. It has been placed in a multi-year perspective and is an important step in demonstrating the government's concrete commitment to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy and purchasing power. It also demonstrates its commitment to a responsible fiscal consolidation policy that ensures the long-term sustainability of our social protection model. This consolidation will allow entity 1 to -1.8 per cent of GDP and structural balance to be limited to -1 per cent in 2016, a significant improvement over 2014 results, which show a financing balance of -2.6 and a structural balance of -2.2 per cent for entity 1. Between 2014 and 2016, there is a structural improvement of 1.2% and between 2015 and 2016, there is also a structural improvement of 0.6%. It's twice 0.6% and no less as we heard. This budget is also an important step because it demonstrates the government's commitment to a long-term perspective. Fiscal consolidation and associated measures have been determined from a multiannual perspective in line with the guidelines laid down in the stability programme. To this end, the work of July and October was carried out and measures were identified and integrated into our budgetary perspectives, not only for 2016, but also for the period 2017-2019. I would like to remind you of the government's objective of achieving a structural balance from 2018 for entity I. Indeed, we still have to make an effort of EUR 2 billion in 2018 and EUR 3.15 billion in 2019. However, these are cumulative figures. In other words, both efforts should not be added up. It goes without saying that the multiannual framework, which currently sets out the efforts to achieve the objectives of a structural balance in 2018, will have to be updated in the coming months on the basis of parameters evolving with the successive forecasts. This framework will also need to be updated in the light of future updates of the Stability Programme, in cooperation with the Länder. In doing so, we seek an atmosphere of exchange and mutual consultation through the Consultation Committee or through the Inter-Ministerial Conference of the Budget and Finance. In order to achieve this objective, the government will, in particular, ensure regular monitoring of revenue and expenditure in order to obtain the most up-to-date information on the implementation and implementation of the measures as regularly as possible. The government will also take into account macroeconomic parameters through the update of the economic budget by the Federal Planning Office. This dynamic will enable us to assess the necessary efforts in the very short term, particularly in March, taking into account the new macroeconomic outlook, which takes into account both the impact and the recouping effects of policies on employment growth. In addition to the methodological question relating to the allocation of measures in the studies of the National Bank of Belgium and the Federal Planning Office of the Government's approach, I would like to point out that the two studies show that the measures taken to strengthen the competitiveness and purchasing power of employees have a positive impact on growth, competitiveness and employment. The studies also expect much more payback effects than estimated in the 2016 budget. The Federal Planning Bureau and the NBB provide for a payback effect of 1.7 billion and five billion respectively, while we have included a payback effect of only 900 million compared to 2020 in our budget. I would also like to review the evaluations of the 2016 budget that have been carried out to date by independent external institutions such as the Court of Auditors, the European Commission and the IMF. With regard to the Court of Auditors' analysis of the 2016 budget, it must be noted that it did not consider that the Court of Auditors was not on the road or found to be wrong. Of course, she made remarks about the performance of certain measures as a matter of caution – and this is her legitimate job. Either it was not able to determine their performance with certainty, or because the terms and conditions for doing so were not fully specified. This does not mean that performance will not be at the meeting. The Government is, of course, attentive to all the observations made by the Court of Auditors. I myself have responded to all the comments made on primary expenditure in order to provide the necessary clarifications and explanations. I have also answered Members' questions at length and in detail in committee. With regard to the European Commission's opinion on the draft budgetary plan 2016, and beyond the fact that the Commission does not take into account all the measures, as it does with regard to all European countries, or that it does not have the same view on what should be considered as a one-off, it should be noted that it has given a generally positive opinion. Indeed, the draft budget plan was described as a Broadly Compliant in 2016, a score higher than last year. As a reminder, the European Commission had described the 2015 draft budget plan as a risk of non-compliant. Finally, I cannot conclude my presentation without addressing the two topical issues of the asylum crisis and the fight against terrorism and radicalism. In this regard, I would like to point out that the budget addresses these issues from the perspective of what we call a "provision". The latter are mainly intended to cover expenditure whose amount is uncertain and whose breakdown by department is not yet known. It is therefore not a lack of transparency but a budgetary technique which corresponds to an objective reality. The asylum budget issue is taken into account in the budget of entity 1 through a provision entitled "Asile and Migration" of €350 million in 2016. It is intended to cover the additional costs that departments could face in the wake of the asylum crisis. This will enable the departments concerned, on the basis of an analysis of their needs, to request a drawing right from the provision. The provision is actually worth €350 million for 2016. This is, of course, a first estimate, since a rendezvous clause was fixed by the government during the budgetary control in order to be able to estimate, in a more certain way, the extent of the needs according to the assessment and the evolution of the situation both at national and international level. This asylum crisis can undeniably be described as an unusual event, out of our control with an impact on all government spending. In this context, the Belgian Government, pending a decision by the European authorities, has currently recorded its expenditure as a one-off.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u72	With what calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u73	I can do it! There's no calendar. This is already the immediate answer. But in any case, it will be ex post, Mr.Nollet and this will concern 2015 and 2016. That is the decision that has been taken at the moment. I'm continuing in Dutch, but you'll understand, too. The European Commission has not yet made a final decision on this dossier. However, it acknowledged the exceptional nature of this crisis. At the end of October, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, also advocated a flexible interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact to help Member States cope with the mass influx of refugees. For the fight against terrorism and radicalism, a commission of EUR 400 million was also entered in the 2016 budget, to cover the costs, to strengthen the measures taken and for new initiatives in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. The priorities will have to be determined on the basis of the real needs formulated by the departments and taking into account the work of the special anti-terrorist commission. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, the military and civilian intelligence services, the federal security and the OCAD, which play an essential role in the fight against terrorism and radicalism, should be the first to be able to claim additional resources. At this stage, however, I do not want to anticipate decisions that can be taken in that context. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that we want to work quickly and well. The first decisions will have to be taken quickly on the basis of the approved appropriations. Those 400 million have indeed not yet been financed. We had to work fast. However, I am convinced that no one here is questioning the need for additional financial resources. As has already been said, this dossier, like all expenditure and revenue, will also be examined in the framework of the March budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u74	Mrs Wilmès, what I hear is very worrying. First, you explain to us that this $400 million provision will be used to cover costs, expenses already incurred. If I misunderstood, that's good!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u75	You misunderstood, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u76	Good. Secondly, at this stage, if I understand correctly, there is still no political decision as to the nature of this additional envelope, i.e. structural or non-structural, recurrent or non-recurring. That's disturbing. Thirdly, at this stage, these 400 million are not financed. I can understand that this is an amendment which has been added to the draft budget relatively late. In your discussions with Europe, are you going to present these 400 million as structural or cyclical? I can understand that if you present this to them as structural, they may consider that your trajectory is not respected. From then on, perhaps an escape, a temptation could lead you to say that in the end, it is a temporary provision, which seems to me not to correspond to the government's speech so far. For the moment, it remains very nebulous. Not to mention the precise assignment. I can understand that there must be a process of consultation with the various departments and a discussion within the government. We have said our priorities, but I can understand that you are not yet, from this point of view, in possession of more precise elements. These are my three points of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u77	I assure you, Mr. Laaouej: we are consistent. The first thing is that we are talking about extra spending. This is not to cover existing commitments. We misunderstood each other. The second thing is that from the moment when departments and departments are asked to make lists of what they consider to be a priority and that there will be a prioritisation of projects, I do not think it appropriate today to limit the possibility of investing in a recurring or one shot way. On the other hand, when it comes to cost considerations, Europe considers all our expenditure to be structural. It is up to us to demonstrate that they are not. These are two different concepts. You are already asking me to anticipate the decisions or needs of the services or the prioritization that will be made by saying that it will be only investment or staff. It's not serious. The objective is, and the government has already made this very clear: we are drawing up a list of needs, we are prioritizing and based on this, there will probably be recurrent spending and probably investment spending. The European Commission's consideration of whether or not it is a structural expenditure comes ex ante, if it accepts that this issue is dealt with separately, as was the case with asylum. This remains to be demonstrated. We are not there yet, contrary to what we have done for asylum. We know that these costs will be significant and will likely have a lasting impact on our budget. We will therefore ask Europe to take this situation into account, in the same way as we have requested for asylum. You will have understood that the 2016 budget is correct. It is in line with the commitments made to the European Commission to improve the structural balance. The necessary reorganisation to achieve the objective of balance from 2018 onwards was identified under unchanged circumstances. The budget is a living matter. It therefore needs to be adapted according to the evolution of the macroeconomic parameters and the reality in the field. The overall positive opinion of the European Commission on the 2016 draft budget plan, which has been described as a broad-based approach, and the clear identification in our budget of the efforts to be made, undoubtedly indicate that we are on the right track, but that it is true that the work is not finished. I wonder if it will ever be at the budgetary level. We already know that, all things being equal, the asylum crisis and the security issue we are facing will have a lasting impact on the budget. The extent of this impact will depend on the development of the situation. I'm realistic, but I'm also optimistic. The structural reforms undertaken by this government since its inception have been welcomed by various international bodies such as the European Commission, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and, again yesterday, the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In this regard, the IMF highlighted the major efforts made by the government in just one year. Thus, according to the IMF, wage moderation and tax shift should support job creation. Pension reform will also help to cope with the cost of ageing and contribute to the increase in the employment rate. The IMF's opinion calls on the government to go further in the reforms, including further cuts in public spending and improved administrative efficiency. The IMF also recommends that each level of government contribute to the process of fiscal consolidation that is essential to ensure the reduction of our debt, which the federal government is committed to doing. Moreover, it is obvious, since the IMF speaks on the Belgian house, that the Regions will have to bring their stone to the building, which they do not fail to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u78	Minister, I would like to remind you, as a last resort, that the IMF was wrong in its multipliers when it came to assessing the austerity policies it advocated. I therefore invite you to pay attention to the recommendations of the IMF. Having said that, I hear that the latter recommends that you further reduce public spending. What do you think of this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u80	You're lovely, Mr. Nollet! And you know that the government is always telling the truth! Mr Laaouej, we are told that the cuts in public spending are detriculating everything the state can do and all its tasks. As far as I am concerned, I would like to explain that there are independent bodies that say that the Belgian State can do better. Contrary to some, my reading of the IMF's recommendations was not one-dimensional. I am therefore fully aware that these recommendations have very positive points about government policy and that they draw our attention to certain points, both federal and regional. We like to refer here to independent international institutions when this arranges. For my part, I simply mention that there are internationally recognized institutions that encourage us to go further in the control of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u81	Minister, along with other colleagues, we have tried to remind you – it appears in a series of reports – that Justice is crying out for famine, that Defence has enormous needs. We also know that for security policies, you have decided to set aside a provision of 400 million. These are just three examples, but I could continue with Development Cooperation and a whole series of other administrations. The IMF recommends that you further reduce public spending. The political question I ask you is whether or not you are going to follow this recommendation or whether you are making a commitment to be attentive to the needs of the various departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u82	I am making a formal commitment, as has always been the case with the government, to be attentive to the needs of the various departments. The goal is to make savings where possible and where possible, and to increase the efficiency of the administration, which you say is an impossible mission, while making it known that it will not be as profitable as you can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u83	Don't go too far! You say that the government has always been attentive to the demands of its various administrations. We have seen, in terms of security, that this was not the case! Besides, you had to back off and unblock a new budget. I think you need to be much more attentive in your way of managing public spending.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u84	If I can conclude, I think we should also be extraordinarily attentive to the fact that we are living in another world. This is a new situation. To blame the government for not investing in the same way that we are going to invest today to face new difficulties is a very, very bad trial!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u86	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Onkelinx!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u87	Minister, we really need to see each other again. This idea of permanent monitoring of the implementation of your budget, especially on all the revenues that are questioned by different institutions, is essential, otherwise the building will not hold the road. We're at the budget stage. A budget is a bet you take, which we question. I'm not going back to the debate from the beginning. As far as the specific aspect of the 400 million is concerned, you keep the blurry. At the same time, you cannot be asked to make decisions today, which take a little time. I would admit that, but I would like to remind you how much we will pay attention to the allocation of these resources and their financing. It's essential. Sectors are in great difficulty at the federal level. We are already wondering how you can achieve additional savings without affecting the core missions of the federal government. If it is to take 400 million more from sectors that are already in difficulty and for which you are announcing additional difficulties, I do not know how that will be achieved. I asked you a very specific question at the beginning of my speech on the implementation of the Paris agreements, on the commitment to finance the Green Fund for Adaptation to Climate Change to the tune of 50 million euros, a commitment made by the Prime Minister on our behalf at the rostrum of Bourget. I repeat my question: are these additional resources to the development cooperation budget? If so, I confess that I did not spot them in the 2016 budget. What budget item are they in? Should we consider, as for the EUR 400 million, that this will come later? There is no amendment here. We can also interrupt the proceedings, refer the matter back to committee and take this amendment. I am available to hold a holding meeting and allow the budget to be voted. This commitment is already, in our view, insufficient; at the very least, it must be effective. That's an important element I want you to specify.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u88	Mrs. Onkelinx, we were not distracted. Last year, there was a security provision of 200 million that was directly put in place after what happened in Paris. I agree with you, Mr Gilkinet, that we will all be attentive to the way in which these 400 million will be spent, since they have only one objective: the fight against terrorism and radicalism. As regards the 50 million announced, in this amount there are 25 million federal, 25 million regional. The federal government will have to be funded primarily from ETS revenues; I am speaking under the control of Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u89	We're talking about the 25 million federal dollars. You take them in addition to the current Development Cooperation budgets and take them from ETS revenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u90	I told you we'd take them mainly from the ETS budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u91	Complementing the current budgets of Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u92	First on ETS budgets!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u93	First of all, it doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u94	Priority on ETS budgets! I don't understand your question. These are the ETS means, they are not the means of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u95	Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the members of the Finance Committee for their excellent cooperation over the last few days. Unfortunately, I can't get beer every day. Those who have already enjoyed it have had it. Maybe we should think about doing it another way. A great deal has already been said, and I shall confine myself to a number of general reservations. Then, of course, I will go into a number of comments on specific income, which were expressed today. The debate on the tax shift is for Friday, if I understand correctly. But today I have already heard a lot of comments on this, which is quite normal. Indeed, tax shift is something very important in government policy. What is certainly also the case is that the famous return effects are not calculated in the financing of the tax shift itself. We reserved those return effects for the budget. Much has also been said today about the studies of the Planning Office of the National Bank, but we can be clear. I was able to see that the opposition was quite fixed on the National Bank's study. She said that, in terms of return effects, $5 billion would fall into the budget. We'll see. I respect the National Bank very much and I also respect what it says about these returns and what it says about the effects of the tax shift on disposable income, investment and employment. The timing of the tax shift, and therefore its impact on the budget, is important. It has already been pointed out that it may not be an obvious timing. We do indeed live in reasonably uncertain economic conditions. You all know that in exactly one hour we will know what the Federal Reserve will do with interest rates. It is very likely that, after more than seven years of policy on interest rates and extremely low interest rates, US interest rates will be increased. That's a new thing. That can have absolutely no effect, or it can have all kinds of effects. Everyone agrees that we do not know what the effect will be. I have already quoted Mr Draghi several times in the discussions in committee. As far as I am concerned, despite the comments of the market analysts on recent decisions, his commitments remain in full focus. He will continue his policy until growth revives and, above all, until inflation revives, which, of course, is a very important one. After all, when we talk about interest rates and interest charges, we must of course talk about real effects, namely nominal interest rates adjusted for inflation. Here too, we are waiting to see what the real result will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u97	Mr Minister, on this point in particular, do you think that, in any way, the European Central Bank can be influenced by the increase, expected by some, in the interest rates of the US Federal Reserve in the coming weeks? Could this change the situation in Europe and, as a result, affect your budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u98	Mr Laaouej, I will not comment specifically on the policy of the European Central Bank. Otherwise, I'm in danger of causing another little fight with Mr. Van Rompuy. For the European Central Bank and Mr Draghi, what is going to happen in the United States is one of several parameters in a decision-making process. As I have already pointed out in committee, the credibility of a Central Bank governor is his only asset. Draghi has repeatedly stressed – and I believe so – that he will continue his policy until growth and inflation begin to rise. I cannot read his thoughts and therefore cannot answer your question very precisely. For me, the main aspect is what I have just said: Mr Draghi has only his credibility, which will depend on what he is going to do and on the results of his action on growth and inflation. In view of the timing, I think that was my argument when Mr Laaouej intervened. Now is the time to do something like this. As a relatively small and certainly very open economy, we are inevitably dependent on what is happening internationally. We must try to combat this in a structural way, in the sense that we must strengthen our own growth potential. That is what we are doing with this tax shift, without any doubt as far as I am concerned. Here again I can refer to the reports of the National Bank of Belgium and the Federal Planning Office and to the comments of the European Commission, the IMF and the OECD. The tax shift will make a substantial contribution in terms of the structural growth power of the economy, and that is what we really need. As far as the return effects on the budget are concerned, this is an aspect which will play in the light of the budgetary outlook for the next few years. For the rest, today we can make assumptions; inevitably we must do so in terms of growth and inflation. A 1% growth differential has an immediate impact on the rounded budget of $2 billion. I therefore confirm what Mrs Wilmès has just said. The government is taking responsibility. We are not in the context of maintaining politics. We will adapt to the circumstances when they do. A second general remark, which I would like to make, concerns the argument that has also been raised several times in the Finance Committee. This is because the current government is losing sight of demand policy. Nothing could be further from the truth. Supply policy also has a very clear demand component. I mean, here's what I'm talking about. What is an offer policy? Supply policy is a policy that, for example, and not least strengthens competitiveness, while ensuring the functioning of the labour market. What are the consequences of such a policy? These are: competitiveness, investment, labour market, more jobs. Investment is, of course, part of the demand in the economy. This is part of the economy's demand. If there are additional jobs, it will certainly also help employment. When a supply policy is well thought out and well developed, it also helps demand in the economy. In this sense, I see no contradiction between supply policy and demand policy. I specifically address a number of revenue measures. There is the Cayman tax, which is a new tax, so by definition it is a tax which has to wait and see what happens in the area of income. It is the firm intention of the Cabinet and the FPS Finance to follow that very closely and to play briefly on the ball in terms of evaluation. That is why some of the amendments to amend the original draft law are very soon. As far as income is concerned, I am convinced that there has been a more conservative attitude at the FPS Finance Office. On the basis of data from the National Bank of Belgium, the assets held by Belgian residents in the countries whose entities are listed on the list of legal arrangements have been added, with two very important corrections or corrections. The United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg are not involved in the calculation. These are not insignificant countries in that context. Direct investment on the basis of the data included in the balance of payments has also been excluded. This brings us to a total of EUR 57.7 billion. There was a return of 3.2 % and a tax rate of 25 %. In this way, we get a profit of 460 million euros for the caiman tax. On the basis of what I have just mentioned, these are very reasonable hypotheses, which should be possible in the future. With regard to VAT on electricity, there is indeed a big difference between what the Planning Office says and what the FPS Finance is making. The difference is well explained in the sense that the Office of the Plan uses very general macroeconomic data, while the FPS Finance is based on actual achievements. The SPF therefore puts forward much more realistic figures, up to date. Also with regard to VAT on electricity, there are many specific cases that we are studying. We are investigating at the FPS level Finance on what happened in the months preceding the 21-6% change. I do not yet have the results of these analyses, but it goes without saying that we will follow this very closely. Regularisation has not been withdrawn for reasons of substance. The comments made by the Council of State were perfectly legally refuted. We have withdrawn the regularisation in order to give all the opportunities for consultation with the regions next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u99	I would like to contradict the minister on regularization. The Council of State did not take a decision on the merits. He simply discussed the question of competence at length twice (on the first version and on the second version) and concluded: "As soon as a prior agreement is necessary with the federated entities, we will not judge the substance." Each thing in its time, settle the institutional question with the Regions, then the Council of State will make an analysis on the substance, then we will discuss it and give you our opinion. You expect 250 million structural revenue from a scheme whose date of entry into force is unknown. This is much more than the previous regularizations. There is also the Cayman tax. The same amounts cannot be taxed twice. I am not going to repeat the demonstration that was made earlier, but we strongly question the possibility, usefulness, relevance and revenue associated with this tax regularization. In any case, the Council of State did not decide on the quality of the scheme but only on the question of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u100	There were two opinions of the Council of State since there were finally two drafts of the bill. The second opinion of the Council of State makes it clear that there are at least two excesses of competence. For this reason, it seemed to me to have understood that you had wisely decided to refer to the concertation committee, pursuant to articles 3 et seq. of the coordinated laws on the Council of State, which provide in such cases that the bill should be referred to the concertation committee. It's a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u101	The main reason why we withdrew the project is in order to discuss it with the Regions. We'll do it next week, December 23rd, if I remember correctly. With regard to your last remarks, Mr Gilkinet, I would like to point out that potential revenues are a function of an international situation that has changed significantly with initiatives taken at OECD level in particular. This means that the means to organise escape at the international level are still more limited than before. I would like to repeat what Mr. Van der Maelen, that is, it is mainly the influence of the United States that has played at this level in recent years. There is now a triangular hope between the Cayman tax, the fight against fraud and regularization. I am confident that these three elements will strengthen each other. The potential revenues are very difficult to determine, but the synergy between these three elements will be strengthened. With regard to income, reference was also made to the speculative tax. There the question was asked by Mrs Temmerman, among others, whether we would not get a lot of evassive behavior. Well, here too an answer in the same line. As we have now foreseen the speculative tax, taxpayers are obliged to indicate speculative gains on their transactions through foreign accounts. On the basis of the CRS "Common Reporting Standards ", all financial institutions of all participating countries shall be required to provide detailed information on balances and income on savings, securities accounts and life and investment insurance of their foreign customers, in total 61, including all EU Member States and even Switzerland, Liechtenstein and the Cayman Islands. This means that, on the basis of this information, the Belgian tax administration will also be able to carry out a number of targeted checks on these transactions. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the combination of the government's objective......................................................................................................................................................... It means a structural strengthening of the growth capacity of our economy, of the job creation potential of our economy and an employment rate that will increase. I am convinced that, in the end, these are the determining factors that will allow us to keep our social security and our welfare state affordable in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u102	If there are no more replies, this chapter is closed. As agreed, we will have a debate on COP21 agreements with 5 minutes for each group. I have no list of speakers. I ask those who want to intervene om zich te melden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 November last Paris was synonymous with terror. For the past few days, the French capital has been synonymous with hope. This weekend, smiles, screams and tears of joy lit up the 21st UN Climate Conference. This agreement shows that 195 countries, with their own differences and interests, are able to come together and defend a common cause. Many crises are going through the world. They are climatic but also financial, social, security and humanitarian. To deal with these multiple and interrelated crises, we need dialogue and solutions at the international level. The Paris Conference has just shown us that this is possible. The Paris Conference had just demonstrated that multilateralism was working. The Paris Conference has just wronged those who look with contempt and cynicism at the global dialogue that the United Nations allows. It is already a huge collective success. In this regard, my group would like to commend the work of the French presidency. She has demonstrated her know-how and determination. We can be proud to see a European Union country capable of such a success. Laurent Fabius described the Paris Agreement as a better balance possible and, in a balance, there are always positive points and disappointments. But, overall, we have strong reasons to welcome the results of COP21. Colleagues, we can welcome the level of ambition set at COP21. The Paris Agreement sets out the objective of limiting warming to 1.5°. This is more ambitious than the original objective, which was only to contain warming below the 2° threshold. This difference between 2° and 1.5° may seem abstract, but it is a question of survival for small island states threatened by the rise of the oceans. We are pleased to see the level of ambition increase, but we also know that the measures taken to combat global warming are insufficient. Currently, national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions announced by individual countries are putting the planet on a 3° warming path. So we are still far from limiting warming to 1.5°. I recall that, according to the IPCC, global emissions should be reduced from 40 to 70 per cent by 2050 to avoid an uncontrollable climate package. Strong measures will have to be taken by all the countries of the world to meet the level of ambition set by COP21. The Paris Agreement is a starting point, a first step that requires regular follow-up. In this regard, national contributions are scheduled to be reviewed every five years. That is positive, although we regret that the first revision is only taking place in 2025. François Hollande has already announced that France will take the lead and revise its contribution by 2020 at the latest. We want the European Union to do the same and take the lead in playing a pioneering role in the fight against global warming. Ladies and gentlemen, the industrialized countries are the main contributors to the accumulation of greenhouse gases. Yet it is the developing countries that are most severely affected. Global warming exacerbates inequalities between industrialized and vulnerable countries. For the PS, climate justice must be at the heart of international agreements. At the 2009 Copenhagen Conference, industrialized countries set themselves the goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year by 2020 to support developing countries. The Paris Agreement confirms this amount of $100 billion. We must now move from speech to action. We must implement this commitment in order to enable vulnerable countries to cope with the consequences of warming. The aid granted must also enable these countries to achieve their social development without taking the same polluting paths we have taken in the past. It is a matter of climate justice and social justice. The Prime Minister announced a budget of EUR 50 million for the United Nations Green Fund. We call for this climate finance to be added to the official development assistance budget. Colleagues, after the Paris Conference, the world is a little better, but the planet is not saved. This agreement is a framework. It is now up to us to implement it. After the pathetic episode of burden sharing, our country must move to a higher speed. For the PS, the Federal State and the Regions must implement the Paris Agreement and establish a roadmap for climate change. This roadmap will contain intermediate targets to achieve a reduction of at least 80% to 95% of Belgian greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The Paris Agreement will also have to be ratified as soon as possible. Only under these conditions will we live up to the hope that illuminated Paris this weekend. I would like to conclude with a small quote from Sergi Pàmies, who is a Catalan author, according to which "History – this applies also to the climate – has its periods of peak, decadence and renaissance". May we follow this third path!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u104	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pirlot, it is clear that we agree on many points. What is certain is that the Reform Movement has received with great enthusiasm the double agreement reached after many years of negotiations. If I speak of a double agreement, it is because we have reached an agreement on burden sharing, even if it took a little time, but also and above all the Paris Agreement. Some have failed for six years. I am thinking of Copenhagen in 2009, Belgium through various ministers and political parties. Others did it. This is how the Paris agreement came about last Sunday, indirectly with the success of Belgium through this government. And these are facts. We discussed the national and international aspects at length in committee and in plenary. We have also had the will to debate upstream, listening to each other's arguments. Remember our desire to have an extremely constructive debate with, let us also recall, a resolution that at first was probably a basic document, not to be broken because it contained a large number of extremely important elements which, moreover, were accepted by everyone. It should also be noted that this resolution has been the subject of no less than 170 amendments. Of these 170 amendments, many have come to an agreement to expand this resolution. The Reform Movement has really been at the initiative, but we also wanted to be the driving force behind this resolution, even though we have not managed to reach a common agreement and I am a little disappointed in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u106	Mrs Onkelinx, it is indeed a pity that at the level of the federated entities, we took a little time to get this agreement on burden sharing. Everyone has to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u107	Don't bring down the debate, don't make a polemic beast! For federated entities, the problem was not necessarily there, it was much more complex. I am talking about the willingness of Members of the Federal Parliament to have an agreement worth it. You should have dared! As part of a resolution, we can! We give lines of strength. You have not dared to make it clear to the government that additional resources should be put into the Green Fund. I repeat, you didn't dare. Finally, with international pressure, the government did so. I regret this chill that was not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u108	The whole thing is a matter of interpretation. I must say that the interpretation of certain facts in politics, of which I am sometimes the victim, makes me understand that one can have a different appreciation of what actually happened. I'll leave your interpretation to you, and I'll keep mine. After the signing of the Treaty next April, we will have a new debate in each of our parliaments to ratify it. Ratification is a fundamental element. The content of the Treaty is evolving in its means, which was also one of the important aspects of the resolution of the majority. As we always do in the Committee on Public Health, a resolution adopted in the course of the legislative term is generally still subject to review from year to year. Transparency, democratic debate, openness to the opposition, parliamentary discussions before intergovernmental meetings are our way of working. It can be said that, by its existence, the agreement initiates a positive global dynamic. This shift involves efforts, decisions and adjustments to achieve this 1.5-degree target. All States, all Governments will have to make efforts, ours and the following as well. It is an ambitious, differentiated, binding agreement, although the level of ambition may vary from one party to another, or even from one Region to another, it is understandable. Mr President, this Paris Agreement, and I welcome it, is in line with a number of bold objectives that we have defended in the national parliamentary debate and, I repeat, with the help of the opposition, which, I said and regret, unfortunately did not agree with our proposal. I quickly give you a few examples: the 1.5-degree target, the five-year revision clauses, the financing of 100 billion – and the text signed in Paris even goes beyond 100 billion by 2025 – the sharing of technological innovations, the efforts to diversify technology and economics in relation to fossil fuels. Carbon neutrality must be achieved in the second half of this century, although this trajectory is far from ensuring that warming will not exceed 2 degrees. It is a first step in recognizing the problem of climate displaced persons or refugees, a concept that now needs to be defined precisely. We also discussed it in committee. The legal framework can now be developed. I conclude, Mr. President. In my view, Belgium can and must derive maximum benefit from its commitments. These are jobs, patents, research, technologies to export. We are competent in this sector. It must be developed with intelligence and subtlety, which has not always been the case in the past. I would like to give you an appointment for the ratification of this Treaty and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when politicians conclude agreements, they usually follow critical and sometimes even cynical comments. When the climate agreement was reached in Paris last Saturday, the reactions were positive to very positive, with a few exceptions. I think I can say that there was an important cape round in Paris last Saturday. 195 countries, or almost the whole world, concluded a binding agreement to try to reverse climate change and global warming. The fact that 195 countries, poor and rich, agree at an international conference is, in itself, a miracle, certainly about a problem such as climate change and global warming. After all, there are still many people, including politicians, who feel that, if they do not deny global warming, there are more pressing and more important problems. However, all 195 countries are ready to work towards an ambitious climate policy. The agreement is therefore a final blow to the climate skeptics because it is no longer possible to deny it. For this reason, too, I believe that the agreement reached in Paris is a crucial moment. Everyone has had to put water in the wine and could be critical of what was admitted. Nevertheless, the search for an ambitious and balanced compromise was worthy of everyone's approval. The agreement opens the way to a better planet for future generations, and that is why we also welcome this agreement. Until late in the process, the debate on differentiation, the distinction between developed and developing countries was also very prominent in this debate. In order to succeed, the climate agreement also had to transcend the current division between developed and developing countries. Among other things, through their historical responsibility, developed countries will continue to take the lead and support developing countries. However, developed countries expect that all countries will eventually take on fair mitigation commitments in line with legal national circumstances. This means that growth countries must dare to make a concrete commitment and that there must also be an opportunity for additional commitment from developing countries that are still engaged in the transition. The Paris climate agreement contains very nuanced wordings that take account of these complementary interests. At the moment, 189 out of 195 countries have set out an offer on how much less greenhouse gas emissions they want to achieve in the so-called INDCs. The proposed efforts account for more than 93% of global greenhouse gas emissions. This is a very strong signal, compared to the second Kyoto period, which included only 15% of global greenhouse gases. The aggregate of all these INDC debt instruments together is currently a piece away from the 2°C target set internationally. However, the climate agreement remains well below the 2°C target. Even the 1.5°C objective is envisaged. Hard long-term figures are avoided. However, according to the plan, global emissions should peak as soon as possible and reductions should be achieved on the basis of the best available science. The aim is to strike a balance between emissions and the uptake of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century. For the island states and the least developed countries, a reference to the 1.5°C objective was essential. They also stressed the development of a policy that allows us to deal with climate damage which nevertheless occurs despite efforts in the field of mitigation and adaptation, the so-called loss and damage. Thus, although we are still a long way from the 2°C objective, the Paris climate agreement offers a perspective. On the basis of a five-year cycle, all countries will also be encouraged to systematically increase the level of ambition and to move forward together. The transparent way of monitoring, reporting and verification should lead to mutual trust and the recording of a substantiated and reliable state of affairs on the way. A basic amount of USD 100 billion will be provided for climate finance from 2020. This part of the agreement remained a point of discussion until the end of the negotiations. The legally binding nature of the mitigation targets was also weakened in the final climate agreement. Although each country is obliged to prepare, communicate and maintain INDC debt instruments, the actual objective should be pursued. Until shortly before the final text was presented, the wording of this passage was an important discussion point for the US. For Belgium, an important element was included in the preamble to the climate agreement, namely the explicit mention of human rights, a fair transition and gender equality. With the climate agreement, we face a major challenge at global level but also for our country. We have spent a long, very long time in this country on burden-sharing between the federal government and the Länder in the previous climate agreement. We cannot discuss this new climate agreement again for six years. So let us learn lessons from the past. Let us also work with all actors, public authorities, industry, the population, on measures to combat CO2 emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not get carried away now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u110	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in the past was the word 'non-sharp' and 'non-sharp', this summit actually has one word: historical. The magnificent President Laurent Fabius used it, Mr Ban Ki-Moon used it, and President Obama spoke of it. The word "historical" may be used too much in the media, but I think it was appropriate this week. As one of the initiators of the resolution on the Paris Conference, adopted three weeks ago by this Chamber, I naturally welcome the agreement reached. For the first time, nearly 200 countries have agreed to keep the long-term objective well below two degrees Celsius in relation to pre-industrial values. We make every effort to reach even 1.5 °C. For the first time, all countries are committed to a national climate plan, including Belgium. Belgium has not gone off, as many had predicted or hoped. In the end, we worked very constructively on the agreement. China was also at the table, which used to be unthinkable. For the first time every five years we will communicate about progress, we will know or at least get to know the good and the bad students. The agreement will also be legally binding, so we will have to test for progress. For the first time, the principle has been accepted that developed areas, including the EU, will contribute to developing countries to reduce their emissions and cope with the impact of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to dwell here today on the long process that led to the agreement. I have heard in particular the words of Barack Obama in Paris, who ultimately represents the world's largest economy. He clearly indicated that we are at a time when a mind switch has finally occurred in the heads of world leaders and, of course, in that of society. While in the past the warming was still a matter of discussion, that is now an obvious fact. After all, climate change is not just a problem that can be postponed and which is hoped to be solved by his neighbour. It is a global problem and therefore requires a global solution, and the agreement contributes to this, hopefully, enthusiastically, with great desire but nevertheless realistic. As many opinion-makers have pointed out, and also the many organisations and individual citizens who are rightly asking about the subject, the work is just beginning. I refer specifically to the resolution we adopted three weeks ago. In it, we called for domestic greenhouse gas emissions to be lower by 2050 to 95% than in 1990. We opt for the transition to a low carbon Belgium. We will gradually move away from fossil energy so that we can use renewable energy for 100 percent in the long term. Those are not empty promises for my group. We fully support these objectives. I therefore believe that we really need to make use of the momentum of the agreement to call on all governments in Belgium to further concreteise the agreed commitments in actions. After all, this is about collective responsibility. Everyone will have to do their own within their domain and, if possible, a little more. We need measures to reduce emissions. This can be done by increasing energy efficiency. This can be done through new technologies. This can be achieved through many other smart measures that avoid unnecessary emissions or the unnecessary use of energy. In order to enable these measures, we need a clear strategy, which is supported not only by governments but also by society, businesses and citizens. Let's get our hands together. Let's build bridges to meet this historic challenge. Work's just getting started.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u111	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, several Members have already referred to it: on 12 December 2015, for the first time in history, a global and historic agreement on reducing global greenhouse gas emissions was concluded. After our little country has barely managed to reach an internal climate agreement in recent weeks, we can still breathe a little relieved today. The chord opens the door so that the globe does not heat up more than 1.5 degrees Celsius. The national plans will be evaluated and strengthened every five years. At least EUR 100 billion is allocated annually to show solidarity with those who are the first victims of climate change and who are difficult to defend. I'm just taking out those elements. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that the agreement is only a beginning. A seed was sown, but we politicians will have to work hard with the citizens to make that seed a beautiful, flowering tree. Madam Secretary, I address myself to you and to the government by extension. You really need to take advantage of the agreement to make choices. Business as usual can no longer apply. I will not go back to the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2; let us not forget that you left for Paris without a climate agreement, but with an agreement with Electrabel on extending the lifespan of nuclear power stations. Madam Minister, more concentration of power for energy technologies from the past is really not justifiable. It blocks access to the market of a necessary clean technology of the future. Madam Minister, I will give you a few more examples. Less investment in public transport is also no longer of this time. We are still here for a piece in the budget negotiations. Saving two billion on SNCB is unheard of today. We have been struck by the European Commission with regard to the pace of renovation of the energy-consuming homes in our country. That pace is way too low. Madam Minister, I would ask you not to increase VAT on the renovation of houses, because that will prevent the renovations. Madam Minister, make sure that the mobility budget is finally implemented so that sustainable movements are promoted and rewarded for tax purposes. This brings us back to the commercial vehicles, which are certainly a problem. In the coming years, our answer will be whether we invest our public and private money in the past or in the future. I would like to repeat this once again, as a result of the resolution that, until today, 90% of our banks' energy investment flows into oil or coal. We must have the courage to create a framework in which financial institutions will gradually reduce this type of investment. If we do not, we will soon be faced with the sobering observation that we have not only thrown our money into a bottomless pit, but have also made large parts of our planet uninhabitable. Madam Secretary, you have a very difficult task. There is now the Paris Agreement. Again, this should encourage us to make very clear choices. Of course, it's not just your assignment. All ministers must pay the price for this. The sp.a therefore supports Mr van Groen's proposal for a climate budget. We would actually like to go even further. There is a climate commission. Following the Paris Agreement and with a view to achieving the European climate objectives, we need to discuss the progress of the objectives there every time. We have a committee for this, let us use it. I intended to address myself to the chairman of the special climate committee, Mr Wollants, but unfortunately he is not here. However, I am sure you will deliver the message to him. That committee is in this legislature, unless I am mistaken, and I am not yet looking at Mr Nollet O'Brien. This is the ideal opportunity to encourage that committee and to move forward with the proposal of my fellow Members, Mr van Groen, so that we can look to the future. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, will we be able to follow consistently all policies, their coherence and their financing. The Paris agreement represents a renewed hope for our planet. I hope, Madam Minister, with all my heart, that it also means a renewed hope and a renewed start here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thank you for organizing such a debate even though we know that our end of the session is not obvious from this point of view. The agreement reached in Paris is an important agreement. Probably one of the most important agreements the United Nations has been able to reach in their history. But this agreement will be historic only if it translates into concrete commitments by the various States. Of course, there are still some regrets about the content of the agreement, such as the lack of definition of targets in 2050, the lack of immediate sanction, the fact that the mandatory revisions are only by 2025, which is too late, the fact that air transport is not mentioned by a chapter or a paragraph in its own right, contrary to what the European Union was asking for. But this agreement is very important. Very, very important. It specifies the height of ambition clearly below the 2° Celsius and tending towards 1.5°. It puts – and this is a point that perhaps has not yet often been highlighted following the Paris Agreement – at the centre of the game science. That, Mr. Miller, I know you're paying attention to it. It puts science and therefore the IPCC at the centre of the game. The IPCC's contribution to all these fanatics and others is a fundamental determination in this regard. It is important because it is adopted by 195 countries plus the European Union. It is important because it introduces transparency mechanisms. In particular, it is a fundamental element vis-à-vis China. Transparency mechanisms are mandatory. It is important because it is inclusive and also incorporates the role of non-state actors. It is important because it does not allow for divergent interpretations for those who ratify it. There is an explicit article that says that a country's interpretation is not possible. This agreement opens a new cycle. From this point of view, the agreement will only be historic if it is translated into concrete terms. Of course, it is there, Madam Minister, that everyone is waiting for you. This is true for all countries and for all ministers responsible. I'm not going to go back to the episode of the distribution. You were in Paris, the countries don't care if Flanders is 13 or 13.5 or 11 or 11.5! I want to question our country's ambition at the end of the Paris Agreement. With what is currently on the table, we will not achieve the Paris objectives. Globally, we are more than 3.5° if we work unconditionally, at 3° if we work with all the conditions. For Belgium itself, the level of ambition is insufficient. Minister, I am not going to trap you by asking for all the measures you will take. I am not going to go back to the inconsistency in withdrawing EUR 3 billion from SNCB for mobility. I will simply allow myself to ask you to use this rostrum to send three signals. First, the fact that Belgium will indeed be among the countries that will sign the Paris Agreement on 22 April 2016 in New York when the Secretary-General will gather the countries. I know you can't commit to the whole of Belgium, but at least commit to the federal government. Sending that signal would already be an interesting first signal. It is not a budget, it is in the voluntary and in the decision. Secondly, responding positively to the call of the French President at the end of the Paris Conference. He called on ambitious countries to join France to enhance their commitments before 2020. Minister, without giving any figures, I would ask you to send a second signal that the federal government is prepared to respond positively to this call by the French President, saying that we will enhance our commitments before 2020. Thirdly, joining this coalition of ambitious countries. We know that within the European Union there will be a possible divergence with Poland, but what is important is that Belgium must be able to move forward among the ambitious countries. We know that a coalition was born in Paris. Will Belgium be a part of it? These are the three signals I ask you to give, no more or less. No budget commitment, no figures on greenhouse gases but rapid signals. We are engaged in a race against the clock and Belgium cannot crawl when we have to hurry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u113	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise one additional point, in particular the impact of climate change on our health. During the COP21 a very interesting working group came together with eight health experts. They estimate global climate change health costs at 250 000 premature deaths. The planet is sick and has a fever, but we also get sick and get fever. The diseases are known. Let me list a few: pulmonary and vascular diseases, especially among older people, including in our country; allergies and asthma due to poor air quality, fine dust and so on. There are also tropical diseases due to the tiger mosquito and some signs and insects that come our way. Not to mention the additional infant mortality from floods and drought, which increases the water shortage and increases the risk of cholera, diarrhea and so on. Children, especially younger than five years of age, are very sensitive to this. I appeal to these public health risks to strengthen our common awareness, to call your attention to this point and to get you to take action. We all know that taking ambitious environmental measures has a positive impact on our health. I will conclude with our proposal for an annual climate budget. I would like to thank my colleague from sp.a. There's already two of us to ask. I specifically ask for a climate budget to be drawn up annually so that this work is not for nothing and we can follow it every year and do what we have promised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we say in our jargon, I will speak to a colleague because I do not practice these matters. I shall therefore confine myself to a few remarks in a note which I have just covered and from which I will extract certain things in relation to what has been done and what has been said in this meeting and in the agreements reached. It can be said that it is the entire international community and not a few countries or just a few forty States that are affected by contributions to the climate objective. It is already a historical element in itself, in the words of Mr Nollet. There is a desire to keep the temperature rise of the order of 1.5° to the desired 2° or 2.5°, a dynamism in so far as revisions are possible every five years, additional means for financing with the definition of a target quantified in 2025 and, above all, the recognition of essential rights, such as the right to health, the right of indigenous peoples, migrants, children, local communities, women, especially through gender equality, as well as the consideration of principles such as the right to just transition or climate justice. We can say, as the children who draw a line on what has just happened sometimes say: it is done! Now what? It seems that we are going straight to a controlled but probably still excessive warming. How will we implement, in a binding manner, the various commitments that have been made in Paris? Even if it is not always the case to question a minister about his intentions and so quickly at the end of an international conference with defined objectives, minister, I think you are in a position to tell us how you are going to work towards the realization of this symbolic agreement. Perhaps you will tell us one of the first things to do in-house to avoid the events that led, eventually rather late and in the pains of childbirth that we have experienced, to this intrabelge agreement. How, in the future, are we going to prepare and organize ourselves so that this is no longer the case so that we can be truly effective from the start? From the outset, this means that we must work now on the new targets we are set for 2020. Will you consider creating a new national climate plan, in collaboration with the Regions? As for your commitments to accelerate decarbonisation and the energy transition in Belgium and Europe, it seems that at the federal level you have instead buried the energy transition, even though I have heard you say that you are fully committed to it. But not all actors are convinced of this. Will you plead for a more ambitious commitment by the European Union and for a review of the Climate/Energy package in view of the 2030 horizon? Go up again – I heard Mr. Nollet's recent appeal – the federal commitment to international funding to fight effectively and with ambition against this global warming. It may be too early to ask for your commitments in relation to the next COP, COP22, in Marrakech, in November 2016. However, you may already be able to give us some guidance on what we are going to defend there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments on the Paris Agreement. First of all, I would like to emphasise how pleased I am with the Paris agreement concluded this weekend by 195 countries. It is a balanced, fair, sustainable, dynamic, differentiated and legally binding agreement. It is a universal and, in that sense, historic agreement. It is an agreement that sends a message of hope for future generations, even though there is still a long way to go. It will have to be implemented now, but I must say that I was very emotional with the long applause that I experienced live when the chord was announced. Colleagues, here are the few words I wanted to say about the atmosphere that I had the insignia and the immense happiness of living in Paris between 7 and 12 December. For the first time, I was able to be plunged into a multilateral context to the extreme, since the countries of the whole world were gathered to reach an agreement. I was all the more pleased to be part of it because I came from Belgium where, on 4 December, we were finally able to conclude, momentarily of course, the too long history of the agreement on burden sharing, which we will immediately put back on the job for the later period and the implementation of the energy-climate package which was decided by the European Union in October 2014. Why are we going to do it immediately? Because iron must always be beaten while it is hot, especially since by working cordially with my regional counterparts, we have had the habit of manipulating several notions that now have no secret – or almost no more, at least – for us. This allows us to consider the work on the next agreement with a little more serenity. I will have the opportunity to do so as President of the National Climate Commission. Indeed, I will take up this presidency from 1 January, succeeding the current Brussels Presidency. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, you have referred to certain elements that I would like to point out. Of course, everyone can find one or the other thing missing, to be modified or regrettable. Belgium would certainly not be the last to speak in this regard. Thus, in the European concert, thanks to the federal climate administration – which has been our delegation for some 20 years and whose technical and diplomatic competence is recognized – we have been able to communicate on several occasions sharp points of view. In this context, we wanted to reiterate that our climate policy must be firmly supported by scientific findings and be based on equity – that is, it must allow for a solution that takes into account the capacity of States – and that the agreement must be dynamic with mitigation obligations that are based on the principles of a growing and irreversible collective ambition, that we strongly support the need for a regular reassessment system – that is, every five years – that the agreement must be legally binding, that climate policy must be based on a broader perspective of sustainable development, that flexibility should be given to the least developed countries as well as to others in vulnerable development situations. Personally, I wanted to emphasize gender and all the rights derived from this concept as well as from human rights – notions that are found in the preamble. This was expressed by the voice of the European Union. Even if, in the context of intra-European negotiations, a country in a more complicated situation or probably less accustomed to such discussions has sometimes wanted to defend a somewhat divergent point of view, we managed, under the Luxembourg Presidency and with Commissioner Ca·ete, to express our voice in a way that is always united, strong and clearly identifiable. At the end of the negotiations, I was well placed with Mr. Magnette. As Belgium's initial at the beginning of the alphabet, we were very close to the podium occupied by the presidency. We have seen the United States pose a problem of formulation, a problem that has been solved very skilfully after a concert in which China, the G7 representative and Nicaragua were involved, wanting to reopen discussions which were to be concluded. We all expected it as soon as possible and, in agreement, the solution was found by the difference between the obligation of means and the obligation of result, something well known to lawyers. Finally, corrections to texts were made. President Fabius, who had been very involved long before the COP since he deployed all the energy and potential of French diplomacy to prepare this COP and worked on it until the last day, delivered the latest linguistic and legal clarifications to bring the agreement with the symbolic hammer blow. It was the explosion of joy in the room of the Comité de Paris. After such an impulse, we could not remain without doing anything. Our debate is important in relation to this; we need to know what we can get from this momentum and what action we can take in Belgium. I'll start with the local level. I had the opportunity to participate in the forum organised by the CFDD at the Brussels City Hall. Since this forum was oriented "sustainable city", I was able to recall some things in relation to the local level. Proximity is an important thing in relation to the implementation of objectives that seem as far away to citizens as, for example, the sustainable development goals voted in New York last September or even the political agreement voted in Paris on 12 December. During this week in Paris, I also had the opportunity to do a lot of bilaterals, including one with an American woman who is implementing at the level of her country, a practice that we have with the convention of mayors and that she has managed to implement with municipal officials and the state of California by trying to adopt an approach from the base. I believe that this approach is very important and must be able to be supported. With regard to the sustainable development goals, since the aim is to include the political agreement in a broader framework that is sustainable development, I said in committee that my intention was, through a call for projects, to designate organisations as ambassadors for the practical implementation of the sustainable development goals on and through the networks of these ambassadors. I deeply believe that concrete is a fundamental thing to be able to raise awareness and make all segments of our society respond to these objectives. As you know – I come back to our burden sharing agreement since it is part of inter-federal cooperation with the Regions – very strong objectives must be set in terms of building insulation, energy efficiency, renewable energy production, sustainability criteria in public procurement, sustainable mobility and greening of our territory. These are policies that depend heavily on the regions. I work with them on a daily basis and we will, through the energy pact, ensure that these policies are shared by the various entities in order to produce together the effort to which we have committed ourselves and to which we will commit ourselves further by 2030, by putting on the business of burden sharing. I'm a federal minister. I understand the doubts and fears of each other with regard to the energy transition, whose difficulty they see with regard to the return of nuclear power to the field of electricity production in this country. But I say and repeat that this framework is a framework for extinction set at 2025 that is respected by the government. It will be up to us, together with the Regions, to reflect on the energy transition we want for our country in order to provide it with sustainable energy – this is the first word that concerns our debate today – but also reliable and affordable, now and above all beyond 2025. We can also implement sustainability criteria in public procurement, as is already the case at regional and communal level. As I said on 12 November 2015, my colleague Mr Kris Peeters and I presented to the Brigittines a study commissioned via a public procurement contract from a consultant to ascertain the economic impact, in terms of GDP and employment, of the circular economy. This will reassure us as the number of jobs by 2030 could range from 40,000 to 100,000 and the increase in GDP from 3 to 7 billion. Our intention is to work in a concrete way, with the regions already working on it, on the circular economy and the economy of functionality. There are still many other things to do, and I can't list them now because I'm not done thinking about it, you understand that. It is still normal, Mrs Onkelinx, to understand that I cannot have done for yesterday what we must do by 2050. Give me some time. I'm not alone in thinking about it, fortunately. I have your active and vigilant support, and I hear it through your interventions. I also have the support of my administration. I benefit from the know-how and administration of my regional colleagues. I do not feel alone and I think it is possible that we may be meeting this very important challenge together for the years to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u116	Mr President, the minister recalls a series of initiatives, but in relation to the three signals requested: the signing on 22 April, the raising of commitments before 2020 and the coalition of ambitious countries, I have not received any response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u117	Mr Nollet, with regard to the signing of this political agreement, it is open to Heads of State in April 2016 at the UN Headquarters in New York and I have no doubt that our Prime Minister will of course go to New York to sign this far-reaching political agreement. As for the increase in efforts and the coalition of the most ambitious countries, under the enlightened leadership of the President of the COP, the most ambitious countries have already decided to review their efforts from 2018 onwards and not to wait until 2023 to raise this ambition of funding. In the same vein, I will talk to the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, because I have always said, Mr Nollet, that if we can do more, we will do it. This is the logic of not turning back and of urgency in relation to this agreement and to the scientific deadlines we know, depending on the financial commitments to date. You're talking about the most ambitious countries, but I didn't understand the difference with the second. If you want to specify?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u118	Both are indeed linked. The second was the increase in commitments in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u119	Avant 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u120	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u121	In 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u122	In 2018 in my speech and therefore before 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u123	Prior to the implementation of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u124	That's right. And the third element was whether or not Belgium was going to join the coalition as such. These are two complementary but not necessarily redundant approaches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u125	Like I said, I'll ask the question. I will ensure that the message of your Assembly and the message of the Paris Assembly are brought to the Council of Ministers that I see soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this will enable us to conclude the mini-debate on the climate agreement and to continue with our thematic agenda. We start with the theme Work, Economy, Classes moyennes et Agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u127	I turn the floor to Mr Daerden, who was kind in not insisting on the minister's presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would question our Deputy Prime Minister, I would be tempted to say our Deputy Prime Minister of Social Affairs in the government, but he is not here. Too bad. But there are a few representatives of the government. (...): Less social.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u129	Less social. That's right. In my opinion, listening will not be the same. On behalf of my group, I will go back to a few social aspects, I would be tempted to say antisocial or non-social, of this budget. Your social policy can be summed up in declarations of intent, announcement effects and, unfortunately, anti-social measures. For example, social dumping, Secretary of State. I didn't know you'd be here. It's a pleasure. A strong will to fight hard against this dumping. We've had the opportunity to talk about it regularly and I agree 100% with you on the goal. I am, with my group, at your side to contribute to it. I do it locally, as you know. Where are the resources allocated to controls, social inspections in the federal budget? Once again, a missed opportunity. Another example, and this is more than just an example, is a central axis: job creation. In this case, your government's approach is simple: reducing the cost of wages. In particular, index jumps, wage moderation, reduction of contributions, on the one hand, and increased flexibility, on the other. According to your government, by definition, there will be automatic job creation. Let me doubt it. Let me react to this theory that seems a little simplistic and unfair to me. Your measurements are taken without beacons. The idea of a few flexi-jobs to revive the Horeca quickly becomes, in the head of your colleagues – and I was speaking to Mr Peeters – in your heads, a miracle recipe to generalize without constraints. That's an example. One could talk about each of the employment measures, the benefits to the employer that it would automatically pass on in new employment. I fear that this will most often be a boon effect, an effect on the increase in dividends rather than on the increase in employment. In terms of job growth, the forecasts of the Planning Office and the National Bank are not as reassuring as you say. The forecasts of creating 45,000 jobs without taking negative measures into account do not mean much. Or even a forecast by the National Bank of more than 114 000 jobs, as Ahmed Laaouej recalled earlier, by 2017 whereas in May 2014, not long ago, the Office of the Plan already announced 100,000 new jobs on the same horizon, that is only 14,000 more, with all your measures. Recognize that this is little, given the budgetary efforts devoted to competitiveness, without taking into account the unknowns and the sums still to be found to finance the tax shift! I am afraid that these 14,000 are fully founded on the measures you are going to take, which by definition will be negative for employment. We are obviously in favour of creating jobs. We look forward to potential job creation. But recognize that the employment rate has been declining for the past year, looking at federal public service statistics, and that the prospects are far from meeting European targets for increasing the employment rate. You spend, with your tax shift, large sums to reduce employers' social contributions. Why do you focus on high wages that are less sensitive to competition? Minister, we have had an opportunity to talk about this in committee. Recognize that beyond the recycling of measures of the Di Rupo government's competitiveness pact, your tax shift will only reduce the wage cost, for a salary of 1,500 euros per month, by a few euros. While, for a salary of EUR 5 000 per month, the additional impact will be more than EUR 100. But you know that it is on low wages that the effect of cost reduction is the most beneficial in terms of job creation. Another missed opportunity! Is that your budget, Madam, ladies and gentlemen, from unmarked, unconstrained reforms to exorbitant and not fully funded budgetary costs? Is that your policy? In addition, with a labour market that you are advocating, flexijobs, casual work, overtime, without contributions, a policy of exclusion or marginalization, an increased risk of poverty. When it is not the unemployed, it is the pre-pensioners, the women working part-time or the young, it is now the sick workers who are targeted. How will you implement the Group of 10 agreement? I'm glad to see your reaction. I would have been curious to hear the answer from your colleague Peeters, who, unfortunately, is not here. It will be tomorrow and I'm sure there will be questions. I would point to a worrying indication in your budget by including an impact of the sanctions for the reintegration journey of sick workers. This fiscal approach to precariousness, this whole so-called job-creating approach and, above all, a source of fiscal economy, is totally contrary to the needs of citizens. What they need is quality jobs, conditions for staying longer in employment, without forcing them to do so, remuneration that guarantees well-being; from an economic point of view, this improved situation would allow assured internal consumption. In terms of precarization, your budget does not take into account the Federal Office of the Plan's forecasts of the overrun of the Pivot Index next summer. Minister Peeters assured me in committee that this is not a second index jump – I tend to believe it, he is not going to lie to us. But in this case, is there a mistake in your budget? Forget it? What a lack of seriousness if that's the case. This, however, represents several hundred million euros in terms of budgetary impact. Madam Ministers, your policy is to make your obsession with increased competitiveness for the social beneficiaries, the most vulnerable workers, and to weaken social protections. The reduction in social contributions that you have negotiated is achieved in parallel with drastic savings in the social security and health care budget in particular. Your budget, your budgetary choices threaten the future of our social protection system. The representatives of the health care sector meeting within the General Council of INAMI were not mistaken because they refused to approve the austerity budget that your government has decided to impose on them. This budget is in contradiction with the promises you made at the beginning of the legislature. It was then about 1.5% of the annual increase, which we had already contested, denounced in relation to the 3% that were previously applied. Today, the figure is 0.75%. What about tomorrow? Maybe we'll talk about 0% or even negative. I don't know what to fear. More generally, your budget does not take into account the need for structural alternative financing to ensure the future of social security. The social partners have made clear proposals in this regard. There is nothing in your budget, or in your reforms in this direction. This budget is made up of uncertainties and hypothetical returns. It is again a budget drawn up on the back of workers, social beneficiaries and pensioners in particular. It's an unfair and antisocial budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u130	Mr Daerden, in committee, the discussion took place in a climate of mutual respect. I think we found the right frequency to do it. You doubt that the flexi-jobs measure will create employment in the horeca sector. This measure came into effect on 1 December and my colleague Tommelein and I already know that many people have started working in Horeca thanks to this flexi-job system. In a few months' time, we will have an evaluation of the system, but we believe that this will actually lead to job creation in Horeca, which will replace work in the dark. As far as sick workers are concerned, you know that last week we received a proposal from the social partners. It was carefully considered in budgetary terms and in terms of its correspondence with the Government statement. The dialogue will continue with the social partners until the government takes a decision. For us, it is important that the reintegration journey be tailored – op maat van de patiënten – when the people concerned are not able to return to work or other full-time work. We're going to create an opportunity to get out of the benefit system and find a job that suits them. There has been an investigation by the Vlaamse Patientenrechtenplatform and six out of ten long-term patients prefer to have the opportunity to return to work. For health care, even if it's the skill of my dreams, I don't have the budget of my dreams! The new budget approved by the Government still provides $458.3 million. You know that although the sixth reform of the state has transferred some powers to the Regions, we have found 164 million for new measures that were needed. In this difficult budgetary context, it is always the patient who is at the heart of the discussions. Pharmacy costs will fall further this year thanks to the future pact with the pharmaceutical sector. Every decision made will never be at the expense of patients. In health care too, every euro must be spent efficiently and effectively. That's a rule I learned when I was Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I was also Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty at a time when the welfare envelope was very small!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u131	Mrs De Block, you have answered until the end in your position as Minister of Social Affairs. There's one more intervention. Mrs Caprasse has asked for the floor in the Social Affairs sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u132	Mr President, I still have to reply to Mr Daerden with regard to social dumping. If this is not necessary, I have no problem with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u133	Apparently, we don't insist, Mr. Tommelein.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u134	Mr President, Madam Minister, once it is not customary, I would like to begin my speech by pointing out that we appreciate some aspects of your general policy. I am thinking in particular of integrated care, your willingness to improve palliative care in the home, or the increase in mental health resources. We are, however, more nuanced. For example, we are in favour of a faster return to home after a birth without complication, but on condition that we are able to offer home follow-up by midwives, especially during a first birth. This condition is currently not guaranteed. Nor do we forget that your 2016 budget was not approved by the General Council of INAMI, because of the size of the savings imposed. You even go beyond what is provided for in the government agreement. The latter predicted that the standard of growth in health care would rise from 3% to 1.5% and the July 2015 budget conclave imposed additional savings. Without going back to the controversy about the real growth of the budget, it is difficult for us to believe that the patient will not be affected, in one way or another, in such an unfavourable demographic context. When we want to make so many savings, we must look for all the opportunities, and that does not always seem to me to be the case. Let's take a look at the medicine. The lack of packaging rules in order to avoid wastage has been calling me for a long time and I still do not see any significant improvement. I am concerned about the excessive use of antibiotics, not just for reasons of economy. The Court of Auditors' comments seem relevant to me when it mentions an envelope of staff appropriations not used in 2015 by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Nor is your general policy immune from the waves of discord emanating from your majority. The question of the professional reintegration of long-term patients illustrates in this respect the recurring differences between you. However, the social partners have, unsurprisingly, concluded an agreement for a route on a voluntary basis and without sanctions against those who do not follow it. It is well known that the N-VA and the Open Vld are particularly connected with a compulsory reintegration route, while the Minister of Employment CD&V advocates a voluntary approach. When asked in plenary session on 10 December, you and Mr Peeters spoke of the need to reach a political agreement and stressed the financial aspect of these issues, but did not provide a real answer. The nature of the integration path logically has a budgetary impact. The measures announced by the government were expected to save €51.5 million in the employee scheme in 2016. The Court of Auditors noted that INAMI had not been able to confirm these figures for lack of sufficient data. In committee, you said that the budgetary impact of the reform was based on the assumption that, in the long run, eight hundred people with disabilities would return to work. A third sound of bells, that of the actors on the ground, tends to affirm that people who are unable to work aspire mainly to return to their working lives, so that, often, it is not necessary to impose anything. According to the intermutualist, after two months of incapacity, more than half of the patients have already returned to work naturally. Consultants analyze the opportunities available to long-term patients. In addition, for real fraudsters, there are already sanctions, since they can lose their compensation. In 2014 alone, 10,750 long-term patients were reported to have been punished. At the moment, at the time of voting on the 2016 budgets, it is still unclear whether the government will comply with the agreement reached between the social partners. The desire to make the journey compulsory and to provide for a sanction is therefore increasingly seen as a blind obsession whose actual budgetary impact is not known. Another area of concern in the policy note and in the budget relates to the future of general medical duty stations. Why would you want to freeze a budget envelope that could generate even greater savings? The on-call medical stations offer an opportunity to relieve the congestion of emergency services in hospitals. In the policy note, you confirm the freezing of the additional €2.25 million planned for 2016. For the amount remaining in 2015, which is $4.95 million, you blocked the projects on 12 October and you make the allocation of this amount conditional on the government's approval of a proposal made by the medico-mut to continue the standardization of expenditure. Whether you want to ensure that all custody stations operate more or less the same way in order to ensure that care of equivalent quality is provided everywhere, be it! But from there to freeze the budget, there's a margin. That's a bad signal you're giving to the generalists. This bad signal was not well received. General medical wards also provide relief for general practitioners, especially in rural areas in need. Hence their strong reaction when you announced the budget freeze. Given the shortage of doctors in Wallonia, it is not surprising that the coverage is already very high, whereas it reaches only 50% in Flanders. Nor is it surprising that the Walloon doctors reacted strongly to the freeze of the budget envelope. I also put this risk of desertification in relation to the planning of the medical supply. I know that despite all the studies that have regularly shown that it was wrong to accuse the southern part of the country of overconsumption, the North has made it a symbolic battlehorse for a long time. It seems to me, however, that it is high time to take a pragmatic approach to the areas in need. Impulseo measures are clearly not enough to encourage young people to take over from aging doctors. Denying dialogue as a matter of principle is a heavy responsibility, not only to the people who live in these areas, but also to all those who pass through them. Minister, I deplore the fact that this problem is not taken into account in your policy brief. As far as we are concerned, we plead for the release of INAMI numbers for young people who come to settle in areas in need. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect. When you say that the Medical Supply Planning Commission will have to establish whether or not there are shortages for the next few years, I do not understand. The zone Luxembourg – Dinant is known for aging and non-replacement of its medical profession. The average age of physicians is currently 49.5 years. To guarantee the same medical supply as today, 158 new doctors should then be able to settle within 10 years, or 46% of doctors currently in operation. Is it so difficult to detect, control, analyze, confirm? Above all, I believe that it is difficult for some to accept, because the problem is essentially Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u135	Mrs Caprasse, first of all, I have already answered in part with regard to the reintegration journey. It is true that there is a social agreement, but there is also a need for political agreement. That is what is currently under negotiation. And as I told you, two things are very important to us. The first is that one can offer a path of rehabilitation to long-term patients, which is tailor-made and pleasant for them. The second is that there is responsibility for the patients on this journey, because a lot of effort is being made to offer them tailor-made work. There will be accountability for both the patient and the employer. That is what is currently under negotiation. It will take as long as it takes, if it takes a few more days, we will take them. With regard to general medical duty stations, I must tell you that there were great differences between duty stations, not only on the budgetary side, but also on the aspect of continuity of care. Some posts are open 24 hours a day, as planned. But others are open only during the day, until 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. There are great differences in how they organize themselves with the money they give. This began with three pilot projects, the number of which was increased to 45. There is already an amount of $18 million a year for custody positions. They must also be responsible for the cost, for the budget allocated, that is quite normal. We are in a meeting with them to define criteria for the standardization of expenditure, but also to ensure continuity of care for patients. It's very important too. General practitioner positions are required across the country, but to do so, it is important to be sure that the money given is well spent. It will also be necessary to integrate these services with the emergency services and with the sorting number 1733. This is the longer-term project. And there is the plan to create the framework for standardization, which will allow the situation to thaw. I froze because I want them to organize better in the future. For students, this is an important problem. If this is not in the general policy note, it is because it is not just my competence. You know that I share this competence with the Ministers of Higher Education, Mr Marcourt and Mrs Crevits. I made a proposal for an agreement. I made a proposal for a protocol. We're discussing it. You are challenging the figures of the Planning Commission's annual report. The Planning Commission, set up by my predecessor Mrs Onkelinx, is carrying out work that does not exist in any other country. We need to find out. We will be able to build on this in-depth work. We need an agreement with the Ministers of Education, but also an agreement within the Flemish Government, within the Government of the French Community and within the Federal Government. Mrs Caprasse, negotiating this agreement, which is very important for students, is also very important for Flanders because the French Community has trained too many doctors in previous years, whereas Flanders had already introduced its entry examination. Now, after fifteen years, there is also a French Community entry examination. We need a global agreement. I made the first proposals, I'm looking for solutions for students who have to pass their entrance exam at the end of the first year. I do not think this is a good thing, but it is not within my competence. It is also necessary to reach agreement between the Flemish Government and the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u136	I can hear you, Madam Minister. I have focused on the shortage of doctors in the South of Wallonia, in the Luxembourg and Dinant regions. There is a real problem here, which cannot be denied. There is a need to find solutions to this shortage in rural areas. I will not dissipate it and will often come back to the issue. For the rest, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u137	I think we can close the social affairs section here and move on to that of the interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u138	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, if I bring together in my speech our vision of your two budgets, it is in particular because they are both marked by the same use of an artifice which the government uses for the second time in two exercises: that of the interdepartmental reserve. This is not a trivial use of a useful technique in particular circumstances to cover, in particular, uncertain or even unpredictable expenditure. No, on the contrary, it is a massive use, for amounts that make it perilous to read your budget in absolute terms. Let us judge: for Mr Franken, we are talking about EUR 250 million, an amount that I would not call annoid. What for? On the broad lines, we suspect that it will be for the creation of new reception places to replace those which you have closed and which enable Belgium to meet its international obligations. It is a laudable intention, but it leaves us in ignorance of the details. Finally, will these amounts be paid in full into the brick? Otherwise, what else? What will be the share invested in people, in communal, paracommunal, regional, community or associative structures? Who will accompany them in what, to quote the new Prime Minister of Canada, will help to make those people who flee conflict zones, not refugees but full citizens, the separate nationality? None of this is clear, alas, even if we hope, like you, that these amounts will not be considered structural by the European bodies. Mr. Minister of the Interior, you have 400 million, nothing less, to finance security expenses. These amounts are necessary, even if they are necessary, for the proper functioning of the security chain, from the police to the judiciary, to the intelligence services or prisons. In this regard, it is clear that these 400 million are the most useful of the 18 counter-terrorism measures put forward by the Government. Finally, it should not be forgotten, however, that these 400 million come as a correction of an initial cruel budget for services whose topicality shows the indispensable character. There is 12% less for the State Security budget, 1.55 % less for OCAM staff, cuts in all federal police personnel credits if we ignore the transfer of the VIP protection service, inherited from the Security. As you can see, dramatic events are needed to ensure that security resources are made available. But this is done in such a way that the transparency, readability of your policies and their budgetary implications are not really on the table. Mrs Wilmès has confirmed in committee that this amount is not funded and, for my group, it must be strongly recalled, but it is a matter of expenditure which, to a large extent, I hope, will be structural. The question of their funding over time is therefore essential and there is no question of looking for it in social security. For their distribution, you tell us that nothing is really planned, that it will be done as the services request. For us, this cannot be a political line and we need to set benchmarks. We want a third of that money to be released to finance the police areas on the ground. Another third party must be dedicated to the fight of the federal police, justice and intelligence services against what is known as serious crime. The last third must be dedicated to prevention, the fight against radicalism in prisons, the policy of large cities and preventive actions through cultural or community-based projects. What to say, if not, that of the 100 million of this reserve allocated to security, 36 should be dedicated to the police and that the unions had to find, at a recent hearing, that they had still not seen the colour of it. This alone must make it clear that this way of presenting the budget can only cast doubt on the sincerity of this document and would be sufficient in itself to justify our opposition. As a mayor, I see another reason to challenge this budget. I'm talking about the glaring disinterest you're posting for the local police. In this regard, we have just learned of the resignation of the Chairman and the First Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL). The words used by the interested parties are particularly harsh: "For some time, the CPPL has been manoeuvring in rough waters. Through this initiative, they (i.e. the President and the first Vice-President who resigned) want to focus attention on a lack of support and willingness to listen, both from the federal police and from the relevant federal authorities. The Bureau and the General Assembly note that at the highest level their arguments find little or no attention and that the aspirations of the local police are not sufficiently taken into account." Two examples are cited, revealing the lack of consultation with local police representatives. First of all, with regard to the announcement of EUR 400 million, the CPPL would not have been consulted, so that, according to the resignations, the local police would not see it. This is then the decision-making process, considered unilateral in the ICT case, in which the federal police imposed on the local police, without appropriate consultation, its strategic choices and their realization in terms of information technology and the exchange of information between these two bodies. I quote another particularly alarming passage from the announcement of the resignation: "For the general assembly of the CPPL, the cup is full. We are obliged to represent the local police, but we are constantly upset about this effort. A model of police that deliberately does not listen to the local component then opens the doors to a police that moves away from its population." Minister, this resignation, a particularly strong gesture, reveals what we are forced to interpret as a clear disinterest on your part for the local police. Some would even go so far as to consider that the current situation poses a serious threat to the very balance of our integrated, two-tiered police. Your policy places an unreasonable burden on the municipalities of this country in the financing of the security of all. Yes, the local police are an essential link in the security of our citizens. It is not only the eyes and ears of other components committed against terrorism and the prevention of violent radicalism; it is also the first bulwark against all forms of crime. Through its presence on the ground and its fine knowledge of people and places, it is a crucial factor in the social link, in the detection of criminal acts or in difficult areas where sometimes accompaniment, sometimes more repressive measures must be put in place. I will not go back to the recruitment deficit imposed by your budget approach, which decimates the forces of law and order. But I must point out that there is still serious concern about the maintenance of structures important for the proper functioning of the local police and therefore of our integrated police at two levels. So here's our feeling about your budgets, a sense of uncertainty about the future and real fear about the operational capability of the front-line forces in charge of security and living together in our country. I will end by quoting Clement Rosset: "Fake security is more than the ally of illusion, it is the substance of it."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u139	Mr. President, Minister, it is a pity that the Minister of Justice is not with you to address the issue of security in the broad sense of the term. The events and facts reported today by the press demonstrate, if it is still necessary, that this issue of the fight against terrorism still needs to be taken up by the government. You probably learned about the various twists in a case of the location of Salah Abdeslam and his escape from the nose and beard of the services. I wish, since you are in charge of the police services, that you could enlighten us on this case which raises a number of very challenging questions when we know that – the versions are contradictory – the public enemy number 1 had been located in Molenbeek on the night of 15-16 November and that it would have simply escaped from the police services, from the justice system, because we could not, knew or should have activated a search which could take place from 5 a.m. in the morning. We could legally discuss whether or not to activate this search before 5:00 a.m., but in any event, one wonders why it was not activated at 5:01 a.m. and that it would have been activated only during the day or even in the late afternoon. You will agree with us that these facts pose a great deal of questions. As this case is indirectly related to the budget discussion, one may wonder whether the Justices were able to issue search warrants in time and in time for this case, which will rebound in the next few hours. It is unacceptable that the public enemy number 1 should be allowed to escape by a probable lack of information and coordination between the services. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice who is not here. Mr Miller, it is the minister who, the first, throws this information in the press. We have all had the decency and intelligence among the parliamentarians who deal with this issue not to harass the government on the circumstances of a difficult investigation because we believe that there are elements that cannot be seen in the open. When it is the ministers themselves who put them on the table, contradicted or nuanced a few hours later by the prosecutor's office, you will confess with us that this raises a number of questions to which parliamentarians have the right to have answers. On this point, I expect the Minister of the Interior to be able to shed some light on this important issue this evening. Since the beginning of the terrorism issue, we have denounced the structural lack of resources faced by the police, the judiciary, the State Security and the OCAM. When I interviewed the Minister of the Interior a few days ago on the civil security issue, he told me that I would acknowledge that in this case he had not made any savings. That makes me understand that we've saved money on other files, of course. It is known that the security services have not been spared by the savings. From the beginning, we say that this issue is not a government priority because what is a priority is immune to budget cuts. However, this has not been the case. Of course, envelopes have been released, but they have only been released on the occasion of tragic events: Charlie Hebdo, 200 million; attacks in Paris, 400 million. And we still don't know at the moment with which breakdown these 400 million will be programmed, or which departments will benefit from it. I understand that this was a single envelope. If we do not refinance the police, we will not be able to meet the necessary commitment of about 1,400 police officers per year. With the budget as planned, and the Court of Auditors confirms this, one can only meet a commitment of 1,100 police officers. However, the needs are greater today than they were yesterday. You have often told us, minister, that you are going to do more with less. We must realize that we have reached the limits of the system and that structural refinancing is needed. Let me turn to my second question. How are these 400 million broken down between the State Security, your police services and the Justice and probably the Defence, which also faces a number of important missions? I expect a clear answer. I talked about disinvestment in the police. The federal police and the local police suffer from a recurrent budget deficit, which forces them to carry out their missions with fewer staff. We have started an important debate on the essential tasks. We have already heard from the unions on this subject. For your part, you are doing a job in your firm. We are doing a job in Parliament and we have the right to ask ourselves how we are going to intertwine your work with ours. The trade unions told us that there was no major and fundamental opposition to debate this subject and to drag missions carried out by the police to other services, or possibly to the private sector. But they all said the same thing; the question is not that much. We can talk about it if we know that the level of funding of the police remains the same and does not decrease constantly, in which case the debate on the essential tasks will of course have no meaning because we take with one hand what we have given with the other. In addition, following a ruling of the Constitutional Court, there must be a reform of the police pension. The Constitutional Court notes that this budget does not take into account this possible legal change and the absence of the least expenditure resulting therefrom. At present, this is not included in the budget. However, this will probably be a substantial sum to bear in order to cope with future pensions. That's the summary of what I had to ask you. For the past year, we have always gone in the same direction, saying to the government, on the one hand, that there is a lack of resources and, on the other hand, that the fight against terrorism is a Quédian struggle. It must not only be done in the context of tragic events. It must be part of a true global vision of government. It is known that the twelve measures planned by the government following the Charlie Hebdo attack were implemented several months later and that some are not yet fully implemented. One has the right to wonder whether the eighteen measures you have planned will be taken and whether they are part of a true global vision that incorporates a preventive aspect and an important coordination with the federated entities that have an important role to play in prevention. Thank you for enlightening us on the 400 million as well as on the information reported since this morning in the press when to the possible presence of Salah Abdeslam in Molenbeek and the fact that this public enemy No. 1 escaped the police services. Under what circumstances could this have happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the 400 million, I have already answered in committee: the distribution between the structural amount and the non-structural amount is around 50% - it depends on the projects which the services will introduce and which we will approve. This budget has not yet been allocated to the various projects. Decisions on projects should be taken quickly. You're talking about disinterest in local police. I gave a large reply to that question this afternoon in committee, where Mr Demeyer had introduced a question, but he did not come to ask it. You're relaying the same question here. Therefore, I refer you to the answer I gave this afternoon. I met Mr Brabant yesterday noon and, according to comments received by some colleagues, he was very satisfied. For details, I am referring to my answer given this afternoon in committee. Mrs Matz, as far as Salah Abdeslam is concerned, I have no information. I'm not in charge, I'm not even in charge of investigations. Information about judicial investigations is either the responsibility of the federal prosecutor's office or the Minister of Justice. For my part, I cannot – in every sense of the word – give you any information in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u141	Minister, when you say that you cannot, in every sense of the word, do you mean that you have no right to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u142	No, in both directions: on the one hand, I don't know, I don't have the information. On the other hand, it's not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u143	You don't have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u144	With regard to the lack of resources, I have already repeated on several occasions that I am solving the problems that are the result of years of savings in the police force. What I saw in our police special forces is unimaginable. To save money, special forces were sent to the field with equipment that was not suitable for the tasks assigned to them. And those responsible for this policy are now asking me about the budget that has been set up to solve these problems! We released €200 million in 2015 and will release €400 million in 2016 for the security services, be it the police or the justice services, and so on. I agree with the fact that the savings in some police services have gone too far! We are solving this day after day. As regards the debate on the essential tasks, we had a first discussion in Kern and I hope to close this discussion this week. Secondly, I am prepared to come to committee to present my vision on this point and to have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u145	Minister, I have enough control not only to read just one question written by another. Rather than offering in the newspapers a safe speech to all the sauces, the style "I will take care of Molenbeek personally", which is very chic at the media level, it is better to give itself the budgetary means of its ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u146	Minister, I'm "scotched" to hear that you don't have any information about anything serious. I understand you don't have the lead in investigations, but you still have a significant share of security responsibilities. I am astonished by the fact that there is no consultation at the level of government, and I deeply regret that the Minister of Justice cannot be present. He could have illuminated us because he's the one who opens the ball. It is quite legitimate for parliamentarians, who have been asked to have a duty of reserve on these issues and not to push ministers on these issues, to have the answers when the minister himself comes to push them. I love your habit of saying, "I'm just fixing past budgetary mistakes." It always surprises me, because you still have some good faith, but you never talk about investments or staff. Minister, you can never deny that Ms.Milquet – since she is the one you are targeting – has brought the level of recruitment to 1,400 officers a year. With the savings you decided in 2015, you allow the commitment of only 800 police officers – it is the Court of Auditors that says so, it is not me. Then, when you adjust, you realize that it's a little difficult and you go back to 1,100. That's the current level. However, it would take 1,400 to deal with retirement requests and to replace staff who change their service. I can't hear that. The budget provides for a 2 per cent reduction in the number of police officers. You can't tell us that you're just fixing the mistakes of the past. You dig holes, minister, and then fill them up – and I hope that's your intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u147	Is he digging holes, or is he plugging holes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u148	Mr. Miller, the minister digs them first and then tries to get them right. That's what we've always said. We are told that this is 200 million structurally, since you are talking about 50%. But they're not just about the police, because they affect all security services – so I guess Defence is also targeted. This means $200 million for OCAM, State Security, Justice, Police and Defence. If one makes a stupid and wicked calculation – 200 divided by five – one cannot say that the structural gain of each service will be enormous. Moreover, is it in terms of investment or personnel? We don't know. At a time when we're going to vote for a budget, it's like buying a cat in a bag. We give 400 million, but we don't know where they're coming from or where they're going. It is extremely uncomfortable for parliamentarians to take a decision on this measure, of which nothing is known. This is certainly a very interesting announcement effect for the government, but in fact we don't have the impression that the government has been thinking about who needed what in terms of security. This gives the impression of not putting priorities, as is always the case in the fight against terrorism. I do not hide my disappointment at not getting along with you on today's news items or more on the EUR 400 million. In addition, you claim that you compensate for what has been done in the past. I hope that your government partners, the MR, the Open Vld, will remind you that, in the legislature that preceded yours, there were no savings on justice and police. It was a commitment that the CDH had made and that was respected. Ask Mr. Dewael, who is behind you, if Mrs. Turtelboom has made any savings on justice! I don't think so. Of course, we can deny each other. It was a commitment that the previous government had made, because it had made security a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u149	The Home Affairs chapter is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seemed to me important to focus some time today in plenary on this regal function of National Defence. In this respect, as I have already done in committee, I would like first of all to reiterate our unwavering solidarity with France, the European Union and the international community as a whole in the fight against Daesh and religious obscurantism. I am convinced that our strength will come from our cohesion and the coherence of our actions, but also from a comprehensive approach involving the three D dimensions: defence, diplomacy and development. We must indeed learn from the Bush era. No bomb, however precise it may be, can put an end to radicalism and fanaticism in a lasting way. It is therefore important, it seems to me, to get out of this particularly binary vision of the world: on the one hand, good, on the other, evil. My group wants all initiatives to be taken to combat terror, here and in the world, while respecting the rule of law and international law. I would also like to acknowledge the work of our soldiers in our streets and operations abroad and to thank them for their dedication and courage. The PS has supported and will continue to support our country's intervention in the international coalition against Daesh within a UN and European framework and with the full involvement of our Assembly. However, I must point out that Parliament is too often excluded from the decision-making process. Diplomatic and development aspects must also be an integral part of this struggle. Finally, and I say it loud and clear – as you have your answer, Minister – my group will support the budgetary efforts that must be made to ensure that National Defence has the means to meet its ambitions. Mr Minister, the current situation shows that the severe cuts, almost 2 billion euros accumulated in your department, were not the right political choice in the situation we are experiencing. In a previous plenary session, your party's group leader told us the most serious thing in the world: "We must invest in our security". Ironic when we know the historical cuts of this majority in terms of security. Despite the urgency of the current situation both in terms of our internal and external security, these cuts are confirmed in Budget 2016. The lines on the purchase of ammunition are simply zero and dramatically illustrate the state of defence under this right-wing government. A year ago, right here, I was already doing this analysis. The fact that I'm back here in front of you shows that I never lose hope. Stop the savings and finally give the means to justice, the police, military and civilian intelligence and, of course, to our army so that they can carry out their essential tasks. The 400 million euros promised recently in plenary by the Prime Minister for Security must be new means, and so much so if this adds to the deficit. The necessary increase in the security budget cannot be offset at the expense of our social policies, for example. I would remind you that the Socialists have fought to ensure that the European Treaties provide for exceptional circumstances for such overruns. The situation today is fully part of it. Having done this, I would now like, Mr Minister, to go back to several elements of your budget and your general policy note, without repeating the debate that we have already had in committee. I'd like to go back to the magic word you're saying to the envious: credibility. Mr Minister, let me say this: yes, the action of Belgian Defence is credible. I agree with you on this, and I would like to commend once again the work of our army in each of its components. However, Minister, this credibility that you are drinking us to the point of thirst, we owe it to their work now, not to that of this government. How long will you remain credible with your budget? As the CGSP has already said, we can only note that if the savings were to grow or simply continue, there is a concern that the Department of Defence will not be able to keep this pace indefinitely, both in the homeland operation and in our operations abroad. Yet it was your government that announced in fanfare a strategic plan, massive investments for all components, an exponentially growing defence budget to buy the full range of military equipment. I can tell you, I'm looking for nothing, nada, nothing. But I was willing to absolve you by saying, "It's better to do little things than to do nothing at all." But even the minimum, I don't see it in your budget. Proof of this total lack of credibility: how does your government intend to finance major investments such as the replacement of F-16s or frigates, which are also included in the government agreement, while the strategic plan promised in 2014 is still unknown within six months. Do you intend to postpone the burden of these colossal investments – between 4 and 5 billion euros – to the next government, without making any strategic choice? The PS group was immediately constructive during these government announcements or, I would say, during these media announcements. My group has made several motions for resolutions and legislation in connection with our army, organized discussions on this subject, and even, unlike you, drafted a document setting out its strategic defence guidelines. After more than a year of waiting and despite the impatience expressed in plenary and in the Defence Committee by the majority itself, you still do not have a strategic plan. You know, this plan, this concept, this confused idea that, like God, so-called exists but that no one has ever seen. For my group, this is unacceptable, especially in the international context we know. It is a lack of seriousness and respect for our citizens, our military, our European and international partners, our social partners and, of course, the very essence of democracy in our Parliament. The N-VA must be ill to continue to benefit from the socialist acquis at the level of the army since almost all modern equipment that are or will soon be available to your department date from previous governments, NH90, A400M, etc. It is true that with investment lines reduced to zero, it is difficult to do otherwise. Pages 371 and 372 of the budget cannot be more explicit. Parliament has never been so little involved in this country's military decisions. I recognize that you are of good will to Parliament, but your influence at government level is unfortunately insufficient to achieve concrete progress. While Belgium is pro-active internationally and continues good initiatives for peacekeeping or 3D projects such as in the DRC or to support young democracies such as Tunisia, our country is now almost completely absent from UN missions. Our withdrawal from Lebanon is all the more illogical and unjustified in the current situation when we know how much this country is facing with the huge presence of refugees fleeing the war. In addition, our near-deletion of these United Nations missions seems all the more incomprehensible as our country has just embarked on a campaign for a non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council for the period 2019-2020. Our presence in Lebanon would have been an argument of weight. I don't see how you can honestly say, minister, that I am in the attack or bad faith by taking this stock. I am aware of this and, believe me, I am sincerely sorry! On the question of aid to the nation, this government is a huge break from the previous ones, since you have actually carried out the government agreement by charging for the first time certain tasks of aid to the population, as in the framework of the "Great Cold" plan. This is an unacceptable decision for my group, as the weakest ones do not have to suffer from the budget savings of Defence. However, my group has convinced you. It is never too late to become wise and open to other forms of thought, since I have learned that you have reconsidered your decision on this matter. You may have realized that it was not the 7,000 euros of hoped-for return for the Defence in Liège that were going to save your budget as much as a Swiss gruyère. However, I am still as worried - it is a mayor who talks to you - about other missions, such as aid in the event of flooding or rescue at sea. Another debate took place in committee today. Last week's Council of Ministers had on its agenda "The Belgian Operational Commitments of National Defence for 2016", while we are still waiting for your strategic plan. To the mystery of the question "What is your strategic plan?", It is answered by an even more unbearable mystery: "He is coming!", the aim being to pass the gestation of an elephant, i.e. between 620 and 670 days, i.e. almost two years. One more effort and the record will be broken! Minister, I would like to question you even if - I do not want to traumatize you - I do not expect any response, as it depends on the strategic plan that is being studied by the government. What operations will Belgium take part in in 2016 within the EU, NATO and UN framework? In 2016, how many Belgians will be deployed abroad? Which component will they belong to? What will be the budget for these operations for 2016? Is there any provision for any operation not provided for in this framework in the event of an emergency? What guidance do you want to give for our country's operational deployment, pending your virtual strategic plan? What will be the coherence with our international presence at the diplomatic level and with development cooperation? I would like to conclude my speech by returning, as my colleague Julie Fernandez did last week on current issues, to the issue of the limited-term status of military personnel. A rejuvenated army, that's a goal you set yourself. This objective is commendable, but it cannot, under any circumstances, be achieved on the backs of the military and, worse still, by endangering a regal function. Under the previous legislature, we had supported the new term status as an option that should be offered to new recruits who wished to do so. Today, you have literally transfaced this possibility by transforming it into an obligation. Indeed, all new members, without exception, will now be engaged under PDL status, i.e. with fixed-term contracts of up to eight years. For my group, this is unacceptable. The military function cannot be called into question, after the massive disinvestment of nearly two billion that this government has decided. If you are surprised that the army is having a hard time recruiting under these conditions, that is not my case. With the costly outsourcing of sensitive defence missions, an expanding army budget, the use of 100% limited status for the military, my group fears that the N-VA will prepare for the eventual privatization of the regal function you are in charge of. Minister, you know I like quotes. So I will end my speech with a quote from Theodore Trawinsky. "Freedom means the control – as an individual or as a member of a small group – of the vital issues of one's own existence: food, clothing, housing and defence against any possible threat. Being free means having power, not to dominate others, but to dominate their living conditions." I am sure that some colleagues in the MR Group will not contradict me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, the Minister expects to be able to implement the first implementing measures of the Strategic Plan. Minister, you describe this in your note as follows: "The government did not go ice over one night in 2015 when drawing up the Strategic Plan. It has not frozen this year, I believe. Ladies and gentlemen, this seems to me to be an understatement, because the Minister was not exactly there as the chickens. The deadline was postponed over and over, and we were eagerly waiting for his plan. Everyone, but especially the staff, now urgently needs some clarity. The patience of the staff is running out. That is understandable, of course. The Minister continues to stress that his task is done. He proposed a strategic vision to the government, as the coalition agreement had instructed him to do. Minister, a politician is not a civil servant. The official prepares working papers, but it is up to the politician to make decisions. Last week, did I not hear your colleague Deputy Prime Minister say that cackling chickens should also lay eggs? On the other hand, you, Minister, keep walking around with your egg that you cannot get rid of in the government. The Strategic Plan will undoubtedly have important consequences for the Defense Department, for our country, and for the staff. I hope that the long wait for that plan will be worthwhile and that you have also taken into account the regional distribution of employment in your plan. In this way, mutations can be limited. I also hope that the Minister will give the staff concerned at least the time and can announce the date and place for any change. Let us hope that the egg will be wiser than the cackling chicken. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the budget. It is still completely unclear to me today how the Minister will and can increase the investment budget by 4%. Minister, your arguments do not convince me. A declining recruitment policy makes room and resources available, of course, but the outsourcing of catering and maintenance activities will not be a major saving. In any case, there are start and run-through costs and a start and run-through period, as well as the costs involved. At the same time, the Minister wants more training days, rightly we would say, but also more investment. In all possible scenarios we had to read in the newspapers, there is always the replacement of fighter planes. Now, a proverb says: a bald chicken can still lay. I dare challenge this. Such a purchase would be unseen and irresponsible in this budgetary tight time. Perhaps first try to get your budget in order this year in the current legislature before looking forward to that distant future. Mr Pirlot has now disappeared. I will not ask any questions today because everything will be in the Minister's Strategic Plan someday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u152	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to see you here tonight. I would like to ask you a few additional questions following our discussions in committee. First of all, I would like to touch again on the future of development cooperation beyond the name change that you have chosen. What about the future of Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) and the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD)? In this regard, you did not reply to us in committee. I would like to stress the lack of transparency with regard to Parliament. I learned that DGD had communicated its reactions to the CTB strategic note. Could you tell me a little more? Another issue that we have discussed in committee is the abolition of the Kivu Recovery Plan. Indeed, I did not understand what the arguments were to justify this measure. It seems to me that there is a will for destruction. If that is the case, I find it regrettable. Maybe you'll give me more details. I would also like to return to the Belgian Food Security Fund. Here again, I wonder to what extent we are not witnessing an ideological struggle to undo what was developed by your predecessors. Beyond this, I would like to question you because the information you have given me and that provided to me by Mrs Wilmès do not necessarily corroborate each other. What, then, will happen to this Fund? On the one hand, you are telling me that the government has decided to remove all these funds. On the other hand, Mrs Wilmès tells me that this is not necessarily an abolition and that, in view of the ongoing reflections on the future of the Belgian Food Security Fund, it has been decided to keep it in its present form. I must confess that I do not see very clearly the real future of this Fund. I expect some information from you. I would also like to address the three development priorities that you set, namely, first, the development of the private sector, second, digital development and, lastly, the refugee issue. It is important to remember that cooperation should not be used as an instrument in the service of the economy and in the fight against immigration. With regard to the priority related to the management of refugees, I have doubts about the real will when I see that humanitarian aid – which you consider to be of paramount importance and which is of paramount importance in this issue – is experiencing a significant decrease, which is also pointed out by the OECD. This decrease would be around 25%. On this subject, I would like to come with a topical point, namely the situation in Burundi, which is worsening and is likely to lead to a worsening of the refugee issue. I would like to know whether, within this framework, specific budgetary measures will be planned, perhaps using some of the amounts currently frozen and planned for governmental cooperation with Burundi. I now turn to your priority in terms of economic development and private sector development. This is obviously a laudable and important objective in achieving the empowerment of partner countries, but it is only possible if and only if economic development is put at the service of development cooperation, not the other way round. It is only on this condition that we can ensure that this economic development is ethical, respectful of social, environmental, human and fiscal rights and that it will create a wealth that can effectively be distributed in a fair and equitable manner. To do so, it is essential that economic development be based on the development of the local private sector. I therefore wonder about something that you mentioned in our committee discussions, namely the organisation of joint cooperation and trade missions with your colleague Secretary of State De Crem. What is the specific framework for these missions? Who will pay what and for whom? Will invited contractors be asked to pay part of the mission expenses? What will be the proportion of civil society and private sector actors participating in these missions? What percentage will be covered by the Department of Cooperation and/or the Department of Foreign Trade? How can you ask for the development of the local private sector as you take Belgian entrepreneurs to development cooperation missions? That seems a little contradictory to me. I would like to know more about these missions that you will soon be organizing. I would also like to go back to the Development Impact Bonds which we spoke about briefly in committee. Can you give us more details? Will this cost the Department of Cooperation? How will the sectors and countries that might be affected by the use of this instrument be identified? How can we avoid creating windfall effects, knowing that it is basically a matter for some investors to make money, since they will receive interest on development cooperation projects? Finally, what about policy coherence in general? Indeed, through the ratification of a series of agreements, through the use of these developments impact bounds, I fear that economic development and private sector development will not take place in a way that promotes development cooperation. On the contrary, especially when we sign certain tax agreements, we weaken the sovereignty of states in terms of tax collection, we weaken their potential...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u153	I have a little question for you, dear Mrs Grovonius. Indeed, I think you are interested in foreign policy and cooperation policy; and that is very good. But it might be useful if you made a trip to a very close country called the Netherlands. You could visit Mrs. Lilianne Ploumen, who is Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. In addition – it will please you – she is socialist. And it can lead the dual action Development Cooperation – Foreign Trade without any difficulty. This is one of your great questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u154	I don't see anything to do with what I just mentioned. That said, thank you, Mr Flahaux, for this major intervention and this important contribution to the debate. Minister, I conclude with your third priority, which was digital development. What about fragile countries, the first of which has now entered a real civil war? Will digital development really make it possible to improve in these countries? I would like to take this opportunity to ask you about a specific point concerning Burundi. We had a commission with Mr Reynders today. Is it true that the staff of the Belgian Technical Cooperation (CTB) will be repatriated? I'll close the parenthesis. As far as digital development is concerned, do you think that is the panacea, when we are going to focus on fragile states? Most of these countries do not even have access to the most basic goods: drinking water, adequate nutrition, health. Minister, I love Facebook, I think it's super cool, but don't you think that the right to a decent life, to a short life, is even more important?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u155	Mr Pirlot, I note with you that there is a change in the choices that this government is making. I remind you that my party was for "de crash van verandering". Now, within government, we are the driving force behind change. I have noted your support for my budget, as in committee. You agree with me, it is really necessary to reinvest in our armed force. That's a good thing. The support of all parties, credible or not, is very important. Regarding my 2016 budget, you're talking about credibility. I believe that we are able, at home, to stick to the agreements we have made. In fact, with the choices we have made, we are able to increase the budget for foreign operations from 60 million to nearly 64 million. And we're increasing the average number of personnel in operation from 600 to 700 next year. As far as the operation is concerned, as far as the training is concerned, we do what we can. At the recruitment level, I agree with you that it's pretty low. But we still chose to rejuvenate the army using the tools voted by the former government. In this way, we plan to reduce the average age from over 40 today to 31 by 2030. I will repeat what I said to your colleague Fernandez Fernandez last week in plenary. For young people who will leave the army, there is in any case support, in particular 1,850 euros for courses, 180 hours of leave to take courses. Contacts are made with colleagues in Home Affairs, the Civil Service and the private sector to discuss how to develop marked paths to other jobs. I still have to correct a statement. In the past, the services provided were also charged for the "Great Cold" plan. I am just pursuing this policy. I can also tell you that, where military support has been requested for the winter, we have sent a letter to the people who are helping the asylum seekers, informing them that we are not going to charge. On the other hand, I do not believe that the Defence is intended to replace the shortcomings of local politicians. In any case, I thank you for your support in my search for new budgets. Mr Top, I must say that you have made one of your better speeches today. Your speech was almost creative. The theme of chickens, to continue on your theme, does, of course, evoke a lot of things for people. Chickens lay eggs, but if we want to achieve something politically, then the expressions 'on eggs run' or 'on eggs watch out' do not break eggs. Well, if I had a plan like your party, where we would be about 15,000 soldiers and a budget of about EUR 2 billion, those are eggs that I would rather not break, but I would rather walk over eggs a little longer. In addition, other associations with eggs and chickens are possible. I understand if you have a thing for chickens. I can think of the image, with my visual memory helping me. I'll see you in a minute with your chickens. Our government is internationally appreciated for the contributions we make through our fighter planes. I understand, however, that you say that chickens cannot fly, so we do not need to replace our F-16 turkeys either. We can also talk about cuckoo eggs. We can make people believe things. You come here every time you tell me that the military are waiting, but I know that. I also appeal to the military that they will have to be patient, because I am not eager for a plan that is too little for them. However, I could also turn around and fill a few pages each month in petals about what others claim to have with the army for. Mr Top, thank you in any case for the confidence you expressed at the end of your speech. You say you don't really have any more questions, because as a minister, I answer all the questions that I am asked. Once the government has approved a good Strategic Plan for Defence, it will also offer a perspective back to our Belgian Defence in the international context we are facing today. At that time we will say that we have done a good job. You will probably say again, as in the past, that your preference was for a Russian egg.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the cooperation issues. That's not always the case. We can only rejoice. With respect to BTC and its initiative to transform into an agency, it is a proactive initiative based on the international environment that has changed significantly. The Belgian strategy for development and how to work will also change from a legislative point of view. CTB had asked to reflect on how it operated. DGD has been linked to this since the beginning, as Mr. Franck de Wispelaere is a member of the Board of Directors. It was the latter who led this discussion. For the moment, we are looking at the different elements with each entity to present something coherent. From time to time, you feel that Parliament should be more involved. I think you have asked Mr Karel Michiels to come to committee. This will give you the opportunity to ask him all your questions. In general, it is a good thing when an administration is more proactive than reactive. In this case, it has been proactive in adapting to changes in the environment. Can we make proposals ourselves? It's a very valuable way of working. With regard to PAIK (Infrastructure Support Programme in Kivu) and projects in Kivu, the programme of cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo had an incentive element. This element was based on a number of conditions, one of which was the proper conduct of elections in 2011. This incentive was not awarded because the conditions were considered not to be met. What is surprising is that my predecessor, knowing that the incentive tranche was not allocated, made additional budgetary efforts of 80 million from a general point of view and 30 million for the PAIK project. It is surprising not to allocate an incentive element on one side and to allocate an additional 110 million. You have to be a little consistent with yourself. Generally speaking, when an analysis is based on conditions and is said no, saying yes at the same time is difficult to manage, specifically for the PAIK project. This would lead to enormous fragmentation. In total, 380 projects were discussed with selection committees that were heavily influenced by local governors, which jeopardized an objective selection of what was really needed. There was no guarantee that the elements of energy investment would really take place. At the management level, we saw that between the beginning of April 2014 and a few months ago, no projects were really selected. In conclusion, in my opinion, this project was attributed at a time when it was not necessary because we want to play with some conditionality. I also believe that, in practice, this would have been extremely difficult to manage, with results on the ground that would have been very limited. We have talked a lot about the Belgian Food Security Fund. You are aware that a government decision is aimed at eliminating the technique of using this fund. Why does this fund still exist? Because I got a year extension. We wanted the allocated projects to be fully implemented. In doing so, the Fund is maintained for another year, but after that period it will be abolished. Does that mean that the issue of food security will be eliminated? Certainly not. It will be part of our policy in the broad sense of the term. As you know, one of my predecessors, Charles Michel, said that all means for food and agriculture should be increased. Today, we reach 13% and the ambition is to reach 15%. Food security will become a more important element, but through other instruments that I believe will be more capable. I'm not the only one to say that. In general, the OECD-DAC believes that, in the past, our way of working was far too scattered. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, the amounts have never been so high. This year, $150 million has been disbursed, the entire humanitarian budget, a level that has never been reached. Next year, instead of 150 million, it will be 170 million. The amounts in the humanitarian have not decreased, this is not the case at all, rather it is the opposite. Moreover, at European level, my Dutch colleague and I really play a leadership role in motivating other countries to invest more in humanitarian aid. In relation to economic development, we are clearly aiming at inclusive local economic development. But going to say that the Belgian economic world would have no role to play, that would be a little weird. Every time I travel to partner countries, I bring NGOs. I bring as many people as possible with me. Why should I bring NGOs and not my colleague Mr Pieter De Crem? Thus, in open discussions with our partners, we can mention that Belgian companies are interested. My Dutch colleague, Mrs Lilianne Ploumen, Socialist Minister for Development and Trade, has already told me several times that it is often better to come with 30 companies who want to invest than to come with 30 million. I must say that I was at first a little jealous of the fact that she had both skills, but working with Pieter De Crem, we can do the same perfectly. With regard to mission expenses, each contractor who comes with us will pay his ticket and the costs of his travel in full. That makes perfect sense. The Development Impact Bonds are a new instrument in Belgium, but also at the global level, which have the characteristic that the return for the investor is made only when the result is achieved. You know I want to get out of an obsession with spending to move towards a logic of achieving results. I find it strange that, in the development world, the only criterion we are looking at is whether we have spent a lot of money. On the other hand, the question of whether something has really been achieved is not really taken into account, we talk about it as little as possible. Development Impact Bonds are part of this logic. When there is a result, a return is paid to the investor. But when there is no result, there will be no return for the investor. We will try to use this technique with our partner countries. This could work perfectly in our country as well. On the subject of digitalization, globalization took place in one direction. Innovation was taking place in developed countries and developing countries were following a little. Now, in the area of mobile payments, mobile health care, it is not here that progress is being made, but in Kenya, Bangladesh, etc. So far, developing countries were rather consumers of globalization. Digitalisation gives them the opportunity to become creators of globalization and not just consumers. This reverses the logic of global development. It's more of a good thing that everyone plays their part in this. If you say that many people in Africa or in the partner countries where we are active, do not have basic goods, that is quite true. Nevertheless, you went to Africa like me. You've probably seen that everyone has a mobile phone, even when basic needs in health care, education, etc. are not filled, almost everyone has their cell phone. This mobile phone is now one of the most direct elements to be able to provide help and information directly to the population and not to have to work too extensively with governments. I think it is one of the most promising development vectors today. It is quite logical that Belgium should invest as much as possible in this element. Does this mean that we will no longer invest in basic needs? Of course not. We will continue to invest in education, health care, etc. Beyond that, digital help will make it much more effective. Finally, as far as Burundi is concerned, you say that you asked the Foreign Minister about this. A new opinion recommends that all Belgians leave the country. It will be the same for BTC staff, who will have to be repatriated. In practice, this means that Development Cooperation, which was already at a very low level, will stop de facto completely. Of course, we are not happy with this, because we would like to resume our cooperation with Burundi. But, given the situation and the intentions of the government, it is completely impossible for us to see it as a potential partner. Secondly, we are following the refugee issue closely. Many multilateral organizations are active on the ground. As you know, much of the funding we provide to them is based on core funding. If we find funding needs, we will act if necessary. More generally, I am always looking forward to discussing these issues with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u157	Minister of Defence, I am pleased to hear that you are the driving force behind change. Too bad you chose a Volkswagen engine that finally looks less beautiful than it was. You were talking about credibility. Rest assured, when your investment lines are beyond absolute zero, I will immediately recognize that you are credible. I am pleased to learn that you have worked with your colleague in the Public Service, that is, with yourself. I'll end with an end. At the end of the last commission, you promised to tell me the story of the last man, you didn't. The day you do and bring me your strategic plan before 2019, I will be a happy man.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u158	Mr. Secretary, you really shouldn't get nervous. If I made the comparison, I got the mustard from your colleague, Minister Jambon. He used that proverb, too. You've been walking around with your Strategic Plan for over a year now. For once in your life, make sure you land. You won't have to come from high to land because that lemon in Defense has already been wrung out today. This is probably also due to the strength of change, although with much force but little change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u159	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u160	We will begin the discussion of the articles of the draft budget for the 2016 financial year. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1351/1) We will proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the 2016 Budget for Ways and Means. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1351/1) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u161	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the draft law on the Resources Budget for the financial year 2016 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the entire bill containing the 2016 Budget for Ways and Means will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the draft general budget for the financial year 2016. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1352/1+2+4+49) We will discuss the articles of the draft general budget for the 2016 budget year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1352/1+2+4+49) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u162	• 17 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1352/51) • 8 – Barbara Pas (1352/51)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u163	• 16... Barbara Pas (1352/51) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u164	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments in question, the Rule 1-01-2, the tables in the annex and the draft general budget for the financial year 2016 will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and Article 1-01-2 reserved and the annexed tables, as well as on the draft general budget for the 2016 budget year as a whole, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u165	Without report Not related A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u166	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1468/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1468/1) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u169	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u170	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Crusnière in mevrouw Wouters. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u171	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1508/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1508/1) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u172	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u173	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u174	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Laaouej. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u175	Mr President, I have one more question about the draft law. I do not, of course, object to institutions being transferred to the GCC, but that also means that they must officially be a bilingual institution and be able to provide bilingual services from 1 January. At the time, I questioned the Minister responsible for language legislation, Mr Jambon. He said that he automatically assumed that this would work out, that the institutions concerned knew that they had to provide bilingual services. He wasn't going to take any initiative to discuss it. He drew up the umbrella that the control for this lies with the Brussels level of policy. I would have liked to know whether there has been any consultation and whether the concerns that bilingual services have been guaranteed have been expressed to the Länder. I would very much have liked a decent answer to that, because I will let my voting behaviour depend on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u176	Mrs Pas, I have to ask the government, but I do not know whether the ministers present can answer your question. If that is not the case, I suggest that I pass on your question to the government and ensure that you receive an answer before the vote tomorrow. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u177	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1504/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1504/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-plenair-ip088x.u179	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I propose: 1. on the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session, the draft law amending the Law of 17 July 2013 laying down minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels to contain the volumes of fossil fuels released for consumption annually, No. 1518/1, to be registered; 2. to end and vote on all draft laws on Thursday 17 December 2015; 3. The name votes of Friday 18 December 2015 starting at 5 p.m. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I propose that: 1. to include in the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session the bill amending the Act of 17 July 2013 on minimum nominal volumes of sustainable biofuels to be incorporated into the annual consumption volumes of fossil fuels, No. 1518/1; 2. to complete and vote on all bills on Thursday, December 17, 2015; 3. to schedule the nominative votes of Friday 18 December 2015 from 5 p.m. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 17 December 2015, at 10.15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 December 2015 at 10.15 a.m.
