ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u1	Colleagues, we are in the combined commissions of Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises, and the Interior, General Affairs and Public Service to listen to the inquiries and the question raised about Ms. Galant and the firm of Clifford. This afternoon will be devoted to this agenda and to him, of course. The Co-Chair will remind us of the rules in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon there were three interviews on the agenda. I have seen that four interviews and a question have been added to that today. In order for everyone to take the floor and to be able to hold the meeting within a normal period of time, we will strictly follow Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, which is also recalled in the agenda. This means that the first interprelant has a maximum of ten minutes of speaking time, after which the other interprelants and the authors of the question each get five minutes. The government can answer that for a maximum of 20 minutes. After that, only the interpleans can replicate each for up to five minutes. We will respect the Rules of Procedure as strictly as possible, otherwise it will be a chaotic and difficult sitting. We are convinced that we can do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u3	Madam Chair, Mr. Chair, Mr. Prime Minister, I have the feeling that this committee could be called "Circulate, there is nothing to see" or "Rideau" or "On the Order of the Day", as the feeling that has been expressed in recent hours tends to say that Mass is being said and that there is no more information to be provided. I do not hide from you our great disappointment when the committee came out the day before yesterday when Minister Galant came to explain because we did not receive any of the answers we wanted. I would like to recall some passages from your speech in plenary on 29 October, which I think are very eloquent. I very much hope that, in your turn, you will be able to explain these passages, which are in contradiction with a series of documents transmitted and others that have not, and a series of statements by the minister. You said, first of all, that it was the administration that advised the firm by sending it an e-mail. It is true that on October 29, 2014, it was the administration that told Minister Galant that it was not necessary to initiate a contract procedure but three or four days later – and we had to ask for the documents – the administration acknowledged that it had been wrong and that a contract procedure was necessary. We are already seeing a contradiction at this level. You also stated that it had been decided to extend the first consultation to procedural legislation, and that in the meantime, many e-mails had been exchanged between the firm and the administration. You thus let us think that the primary mission of Clifford was not that of drafting the various texts relating to the overflight. However, with regard to the e-mails and documents that were transmitted by Minister Galant, on October 23, Clifford was working on the Vliegwet. This has been very clearly mentioned. You would also say: "In any case, I note that these documents will be transmitted to parliamentarians. I am convinced that she acted in good faith on the basis of the various e-mails emanating from the administration." Of course, a series of documents have been sent to us through the Conference of Presidents. However, with regard to the documents submitted by Mr. Ledoux, we have found a contradiction between the Minister's comments and the above-mentioned documents. Some of these documents were not provided by the Minister. These are important documents, however, since they are exchanges of e-mails between the administration and the firm, in which the latter requests very clearly the Minister's explanations as to the purpose of the mission and the financial scope of the mission. Of two things one: either you were also hidden from these elements – what I wish – or you told us about the messes, in plenary session, on 29 October. I prefer, at least, this latest version. If this is not the case, the situation is dramatic. So far, you have decided to ignore all the elements that have been provided and on which there is no longer any doubt. I am thinking in particular of the illegality of the procedure. In plenary, you said that the legislation had changed, that it could give rise to doubt about the applicable legislation, that with the previous legislation, public procurement should not be used, nor should it be necessary once the directive has been transposed. Still, today, we had to go this way. On the other hand, the justification given to us by the minister that this is a special market is completely contradicted by all the legal aspects, but also by the report of the Finance Inspectorate, which speaks of a competitive process. My question is unique and simple, Prime Minister. I very much hope that you are now aware of all these documents. As of October 29, you probably didn't know, or you knew, and you cheated on Parliament, which is not very classy. In the light and knowledge of all the elements, can you, on the one hand, formally request that all these documents be transmitted to us? On the other hand, do you simply have confidence in a minister who will have to deal, in the coming weeks and months, with highly sensitive issues, such as the overflight of Brussels, SNCB and road safety? Do you trust this minister who has committed illegal acts and who has lied? I think that's no longer a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u4	Madam President, Mr President, Prime Minister Matz, the Prime Minister is much more classy than Mrs Galant because he takes notes when we talk to him, which Mrs Galant did not do last Tuesday, in full non-compliance with Parliament. Prime Minister, that we have you at the table and that you are paying attention today is a good thing because we have all asked Mrs Galant a series of questions together, which have remained unanswered. The first is why Galant, between 3 and 4 November, changed its mind about the attitude to public procurement. A certain Mr Demonceau, a member of Mrs Galant's cabinet, drafted almost a public procurement procedure, provided for three law firms and, suddenly, on 4 November, the slogan of Mrs Offergeld, head of Galant's cabinet, went beyond the procedure which had been laid down by the minister's office itself. Second question. Why, between November 2014, when the firm and the administration mandate Clifford Chance for a contract called "State Aids" of more or less 50,000 euros, and July 2015, we arrive with a mission order that seems much wider where, it seems, Clifford writes so much said Vliegwet – which is also called "flight plans" in the invoices that have been transmitted to us – than a law on Belgocontrol for a total budget of 500,000 euros for all these missions. From one mission to three missions. And with a budget of 50 000 euros, we get to 500 000 euros. Why are Clifford's budgetary projections, which arrived in March 2015 at the firm, only transmitted to the SPF in September 2015? That's amazing. What happened? Mrs Galant did not reply to that. What are the actual performances performed by Clifford Chance between the beginning of the collaboration with Galant and today? Who gave the order to Clifford Chance? Who wrote his specifications, his mission order? Last Tuesday, colleagues talked about a contract. If there is no contract, there must be a mission letter. If there is no mission letter, at least there must be a framework agreement. If there is no framework agreement, then there must be at least one stock market. Basically, what email, what letter, what piece of paper, what conversation did they make Clifford take care of all these elements? In short, who does what and for how much? It's as simple as that! These are the questions that remain unanswered. Then comes the observation, two days later, of lies. Ms. Galant says she's not the one who hired Clifford Chance. This is not true, as evidenced by many messages that she herself has conveyed to Parliament and those that others have taken on the task of getting out. She stated that it was the administration that entered into this procurement. That's not true! Mr. Dumonceau's e-mail, which states that Ms. Offergeld has chosen, clearly indicates that it is a firm and non-appealable tax of the firm to choose Clifford. She also said that she would give all the information to the House. We're still waiting for this, the list I just put to you. We come to the question, political, because this politico-mediatic affair is also a political issue. We knew from your general policy notes that there was a deal in this government. The moratorium, i.e. the judicial decision, which prevented the Wathelet plan (continue to overfly Brussels and its periphery, but in particular the centre of Brussels) and, in return, the majority's partners wanted to negotiate a Vliegwet. This Vliegwet is a monster of the Loch Ness. It was discussed under Mr Landuyt, under Mr Schouppe, under Mr Wathelet and today under Mrs Galant. What is a Vliegwet? It's like cementing the air roads. It is to give the straight cubits to Belgocontrol, whose aim is to pass planes and not to protect the residents. It is to give an advantage to the economic development of the airport to the detriment of the health and environment of the residents. It is also, and this is the purpose of this Vliegwet as she came out on which Ms. Galant and Clifford Chance were working, to defy the administration, which is the defender of the environment and the health of the residents. Today, the truth comes to light. This Galant case is, in the end, because we are closing the accounts today, the admission of failure, the failure of a method. What did Mrs. Galant do? She called for extremely expensive legal advice...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u5	Mr Hellings, you still have ten seconds!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u6	Don't I get ten minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u7	No, you have a total of five minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u8	I'm finishing, Mr. President! It called on an expensive external legal advice, unknown to the lawyers' battalion in Brussels in aviation matters, to hide this Vliegwet project from the administration, the residents and the Regions, who must be stakeholders of this Vliegwet. That is why there has been no invitation to tender today, nor has there been any contract or mission order. Ms. Galant tried, in the shadows, to develop a Vliegwet using illegal methods. This project, unacceptable from the point of view of the residents, could only be born in this shadow zone, namely the offices of the firm Clifford, sheltered from all the parties concerned: the administration and the residents, who are the main protagonists. That is the failure that we must see today. Does Ms. Galant still have the political capacity to bring the decision-making process to a successful conclusion? We don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, some questions remain after this week's hearings, and my colleagues have already asked some of them. But we also have strong certainty. We analysed all the elements transmitted by Mrs Galant or her administration, which gave more. There are facts that no one can dispute anymore. There was no competition. There was no agreement from the Finance Inspectorate. There was no agreement from the Minister of Budget. There was no agreement from the Council of Ministers. We learned later that there is not even a written contract between Ms. Galant and Mr. Clifford. We are also certain, Prime Minister, that it was Ms. Galant and her office who directly designated the firm Clifford. This is black and white in emails sent to us. These facts, Prime Minister, are indisputable. I challenge you this afternoon to prove the opposite. Unless you agree with our thesis, which I would really be very happy about. All these facts suffice to say that Mrs Galant has been in repeated illegality and has shown very bad management. Legality of the Public Procurement Act. Unlawfulness at the level of the supervisory bodies. Poor management because it did not compare prices for quality service. I would remind you that the Finance Inspectorate, which recalls the law in its report, is helping a minister, and not turning to it is mismanagement. Prime Minister, you will agree with me: half a million euros spent on invoices without even a mission letter is bad management too. "Tape me in my hands and for a year, you'll send me all the bills you want and I'll ask my administration to pay them." It's very bad management. It is true that, as a result of exits into the press, leaks of documents, Mrs Galant has changed her defense, and so have you. At first, the point was "it's not me, it's the other," in other words, the administration. This one reacted. We heard the justifications of the President of the Mobility FPS, who also admitted that he had committed breaches of the Public Procurement Act. He therefore accepted his responsibility. We're still waiting for Mrs. Galant to do the same. According to the press, she would have invoked the case of special services in front of the MR's office, which she repeated before us on Tuesday afternoon in committee. Still, we should not think of ourselves as idiots with this argument of successive interpretations. If it really was the law, we would have been pointed out a long time before. I'm not accusing Mrs. Galant of personal enrichment, nor of copying. You said she was in good faith. We took note of this in plenary. However, while good faith is undoubtedly essential to the role of minister, knowledge of the law and rigour are much more important – especially for the management of such cases. Prime Minister, first of all, are you convinced that Ms. Galant respected the rule of law when she appointed the cabinet of Clifford? Then, are you still convinced that it is simply an "administrative imprudence" and that it is good management that you do not sign a contract for half a million euros? Do you continue to believe, as you said in plenary, that Mrs Galant has told you the whole truth? Or did you answer us without knowing all the documents in the file? That would explain that you only spoke of good faith and recklessness. Here too, Prime Minister, your responsibility is at stake. Indeed, we feel that you have been smoky; you have drowned the fish. The worst is that we will soon be working on the bottom of the case. As my colleagues have said, the draft bill that was designed by Clifford and that cost a lot of money for nothing, since the administration, rightly, is going to start all over again, is very unfavourable to the Brussels people. Do you think, Prime Minister, that a weakened, decredible minister will be able to properly defend all parts of this issue? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, in plenary on October 29, you told us that Minister Galant had been reckless, but in good faith. Well, no, Prime Minister, she wasn't reckless. I think that today it can be said that she has violated rules knowingly, that she has therefore wasted public money, that she has lied to Parliament on several occasions and that she has refused – and still refuses – to make transparency, by concealing essential documents and facts. She violated the rules since in an email of 3 October she clearly mentions the names of three firms to compete and, the next day, she decides the opposite. Why? Why did Minister Galant's office observe eight months of silence with respect to the administration, despite the latter's reminder emails for the scope of the mission, the amounts to be budgeted to pay Clifford Chance's fees? Why, on the other hand, were Clifford Chance's benefits billed almost one year late? What amount is required? There is still a lack of clarity about the billings or provisions of the law firm as to the amounts, the tasks entrusted and the details of the benefits. In addition, I have come across a document, which the press has revealed today, concerning the provisions of €400,000 for "legal assistance in aviation matters", a document bearing the signature of Jacqueline Galant. The latter tells us that everything has been decided by the administration, etc. and we now see this document signed by itself. How can we explain this mystery? The minister promised to provide us with all the coins. She didn't give us everything, she even went so far as to give us the record of the pieces that she didn't transmit to us, under a rather misleading pretext of so-called professional secrecy, which does not apply to her but to her lawyers of course. There is the price of course, but also the quality of the service provided. I asked the Chair of the FPS Mobility Steering Committee. What is the quality of the work provided by Clifford Chance? There are bidding rules to be followed in order to obtain the fair price and the fair quality of the work provided. However, we can see that the value for money, if I can use this expression dear to Test-Achats, is really inversely proportional to what it should be since we paid very much for zero work; it was indeed necessary, according to Mr. Ledoux, to rewrite the air law in relation to the draft made by Clifford Chance. There is also an even more obvious contradiction. At the same meeting in committee on Tuesday, Mrs Galant tells us everything and her opposite. She gives us a long demonstration to show us that she has respected the rules and she ends up saying that she is like the others and does not respect the rules. What is the correct version then? We have two versions given on the same day by Mrs. Galant. We don't know what the right one is, but what we're sure of is that she lied because she said two contradictory things at the same committee meeting. Ms. Galant says there is no written contract. How can a contract of such magnitude be awarded without establishing any contract, without knowing on what basis we are going to work? Finally, Mrs Galant shows chronic contempt for everyone but especially for the administration, both the chairman of the management committee and the unions, who are not really ass and shirts if I can use this expression. It's the same situation with the railwaymen. There is a very deep animosity. There's a problem with Mrs. Galant's way of working. The question is to what extent confidence is still needed to continue to work calmly with this administration. Finally, I have one final question, Prime Minister. Can you give us the bill? Not Clifford Chance's bill, but the political bill that the N-VA sent you to support Ms. Galant. It is an invoice that we should have at our disposal because we really wonder what the N-VA may have asked you to support Mrs Galant at the end of the committee last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u11	Madam President, Mr President, the first element that must be stressed at the outset is the perfect exercise of this Parliament in the control of the government executive. On Monday, at the request of the opposition, a Conference of Presidents met so that all its members could receive the documents requested from Mrs Galant. The opposition had also made other requests such as the hearing of Mr Ledoux, President of the Mobility FPS, which was done. An exchange with Minister Jacqueline Galant was requested, it was done. There were inquiries and questions addressed to the Prime Minister, we are there. Most of the work was done on Tuesday. The Committee on Infrastructure has debated at length and parliamentarians have been able to ask all the desired questions to the stakeholders on this issue. It seems to us, at the level of this majority, that Parliament has carried out its mission. Following the hearings of Laurent Ledoux, President of the SPF, and the exchange with Minister Galant, the administration clearly acknowledged errors in the application of the law on public procurement. On the other hand, the Finance Inspectorate has pointed to errors, shortcomings, in the head of the FPS in the award of certain public contracts for the last two years; this is an issue of concern. I would like to recall Minister Galant's tone at Tuesday's meetings. With great humility, she recognized administrative carelessness and explained that she would learn the necessary lessons. For our majority, it became clear that Minister Galant's good faith has been proven. The minister never heard of favouring the cabinet Cliffort Chance. It was demonstrated that the administration had been involved in its selection and that it was not a firm with an hourly cost above the market. It has also been shown that there is no link between Ms. Galant's firm and the law firm. In fact, Jacqueline Galant relied on elements transmitted to her by her administration that corresponded to a practice prior to the minister's assumption of office. I hope that this polemic which has frustrated the cabal is not excessively linked to the issue of the overflight of Brussels. The leak in the press of an interim working document demonstrates the sensitivity of the file. Finally, what matters is to move forward on this issue. It is time to return to the essentials and the work done by the Minister to improve Belgian mobility and to adopt a balanced solution on this difficult issue of the Brussels overflight that no one has been able to achieve in previous governments. Prime Minister, it is clear that we ask you to confirm the government's agenda concern for this issue. Furthermore, thanks to the report of the Inspectorate of Finance, we have seen how many difficulties persist in the application of the rules at the level of public procurement with regard to the Mobility FPS. You told us that you wanted to make quick arrangements in your statement to the House. Can you tell us what measures the Chancellery is going to take to optimize the application of the relevant legal rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u12	Madam President, Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for coming before the committee personally. It's a political gesture. It is also a gesture that commits your responsibility and that of the government. It is no longer the only responsibility of the functional minister, but that of the whole government before Parliament, when the Prime Minister himself comes to account. We will see the content of your answer, Prime Minister, to appreciate its sincerity and legal basis. From the start, I want to say that I'm not here to arbitrate a face-to-face cabinet-administration, Galant versus Ledoux. The question is not whether or not the administration can defend itself better than the firm or whether the firm can defend itself better than the administration. No matter who makes the irregularities with respect to the applicable law, responsibility must be assumed. Whether it is a senior official or a minister, there is no exemption from liability for either. Those who wanted to reduce the facts to a confrontation of people, political sensitivities are in error. The law does not suffer from interpretation or blurry. There is no doubt as to the obligation to enter into a procedure contract negotiated with publicity for this type of contract. The opinion of the Finance Inspectorate clearly recalls this on page 3: "In summary, it follows from these provisions that the procedure to be used in normal circumstances for the award of a contract for legal services is the procedure negotiated with publicity, and whatever the nature of the legal consultancy mission is requested from a law firm." Whether it is a legal defence or a legal consultancy, the legally required procedure is the procedure negotiated with publicity, at least, and even in some cases, the invitation to tender. On the other hand, all the false exceptions that Ms. Galant tried to use to say that they were special schemes are without legal basis. We must really ignore the law on public procurement in order to try to put forward this false legal argument. Finally, the ethics of lawyers apply to lawyers and not to ministers. A minister is required to comply with a law of public policy and the law on public procurement. Like its administration, it is not bound by the professional secrecy to which the lawyer is bound. And among the criteria for awarding a contract, that of price, fees is a criterion of award. This can therefore be made public. All the rest is fantasy used to try to conceal responsibilities. So there's only one question left. The irregularity of this market is proven, it is certain. Are you bound, as Prime Minister, by the decision of the administration and/or the minister to enter into an illegal contract? It is on this one question that you will be judged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u13	Prime Minister, my interplay today does not mean that I have anything against Minister Galant's person. If I did not have an interplay today, as a Member of Parliament, I would make a capital mistake and not fulfil my control function. I fully understand the MR colleagues who protect their minister out of loyalty, but I hope, Prime Minister, that you will function as Prime Minister unbiased and politically neutral. This is important for our institutions and for policy in view of its impact. I am kicking in an open door, ladies and gentlemen, when I say that Minister Galant's credibility is at a political low today. That is really bad, because we have some important challenges ahead, such as the reform of SNCB, the mobility policy and the airport file and the night flights. With regard to the dossier, I still have two essential questions, namely who took the lead and has the law been correctly applied? Who took the lead? All the e-mails available to us today clearly show that the minister's cabinet has taken the lead. Ten days after your government's oath, Prime Minister, the cabinet itself contacted the law firm. The cabinet gave the phone number to the administration to contact the office, so that the case was brought to order. I still don't know the reason. I hope you can say that, because it is still unclear to me. In a number of e-mails dated 3, 4 and 7 November, the cabinet says very clearly that it has decided. There is also an open invitation to tender on 3 November. On 4 November, the cabinet immediately sends an e-mail that Clifford is elected. The cabinet decides that. This will be confirmed on 7 November. Ik quote: "We – the Mobility firm – want to work with the law firm Clifford Chance". There is no other interpretation possible. I hope other colleagues will stop playing the blackbird to the FOD. I shall deal with the debate on public procurement. There has been an attempt here by you and the Minister to drown the fish when it comes to the public procurement procedure. There has never been any discussion in the past about the fact that there is always a need for public procurement. Even with the new directive, if the new legislation comes into force in accordance with the European directive, public procurement will always be required. I had a new document circulating in the press today, and I admit it, because I was disgusted by the Minister's reply in which she tried to transfer the blackbird to the administration. I have a document with the stamp of the Inspector-General of Finance dated 1 October, with the signature of the Minister himself for a provisional appropriation of EUR 400 000. I have already known a number of other Budget Ministers and I have asked a former Budget Minister of my party if he has seen such a thing during his career. He answered me negative. It is unseen, Prime Minister, that a minister himself signed a provisional credit on 1 October 2015 to cover current invoices from the year before in the administration, without any budgetary credit. Prime Minister, you yourself were Minister of Development Cooperation. Imagine in an African country a minister signing a blank cheque of between EUR 400 000 and EUR 600 000 on his own. What would be your interpretation? Would that be credible to you? Would that be an act of good governance? Are you still saying the Minister was in good faith? Are you saying that there was full transparency and that you can send new emails today? Do you think that the Minister can continue to function crediblely, without any problem? The crucial question is: will you continue to trust your minister today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, like Mr Hellings, I hope you will adopt a different attitude to Mrs Galant. You do that by taking note. Mrs Galant surprised me earlier this week in committee by persisting in anger and not looking for solutions and perspectives in this difficult dossier. I hope to see a different Prime Minister from the previous difficult times in the government. Above all, I hope to see a prime minister instead of an apparachik and pseudo-MR chairman. After all, you don't have to worry about who will draw the list for the MR in Hainaut in 2019. You don't even have to worry about the next MR reading. Your only concern today is: how powerful is my team; how credible is my team; can we carry out the necessary reforms in the area of mobility; is the minister concerned still able to manage the dossier at all? In principle, these are the concerns of a prime minister. In principle, that should be the look you're looking at the file with. I hope to see that today, in contrast to the difficult times with Mr Jambon, Mr Francken and in other difficult cases. I hope today, perhaps for the first time, to see a true Prime Minister, who is also able to unite Parliament at times of crisis and sends a clear message to the public about fundamental things, especially the belief in politics. There are two things you need to be clear about. First of all, about the case itself. Several colleagues have already referred to the contradictions, to the falsehoods, to the lies of the Minister at the committee meeting on 28 October. She persisted in anger last week, too. The Minister insists that it is the administration that the law firm has chosen, while it is in writing that it is not. We see a cabinet that suddenly, on the night of 3 to 4 November, develops an incredible love for a particular law firm and so far cannot tell us what happened there. That is a question where you must be at least part of the solution and of the answer. We see a cabinet and a minister who for months withhold the actual mission of the law firm and the cost of the assignment for the administration. This is also clear from the file. All these mistakes have been clearly demonstrated and you need to clarify them. I fully agree with Mr Maingain that a mistake by a top administrative officer or a minister is both problematic. In this respect, you have full responsibility to dot the i. So I hope to see a very different Prime Minister than in the plenary session of 29 October. A minister who makes flagrant mistakes is not an imprudence to me, but an illegality to me. I ask you today whether you were aware of all these elements in plenary on 29 October. If you were, your credibility and your impact will be at stake for the next few months and years. I hope that you were not aware of the elements I have just listed and of the other elements raised by my fellow Members. That is a very simple but very important question. A second question on which you are quite clear is in which country we want to do politics in. What's the government's project? How does the government deal with legislation? I believe that your government is now faced with a fundamental problem. I am sometimes surprised at the standards that Members of the majority use. Yesterday, I was able to defend with fire in plenary that a 14-year-old defenseless child is being shot at. However, the same colleagues do not dare to ask critical questions when a minister is flagrantly violating the law. I sometimes ask the question: what country do you want to live in? What can a minister, according to the majority, afford? That is a fundamental question which I increasingly ask myself. The Galant affair is no longer on its own, which is why I want to see a Prime Minister, especially today, who is clear about a number of issues, which are clear about transparency and how the government wants to deal with Parliament. It's not the first time. Mrs Marghem has made exactly the same mistakes of you and the majority. Your government despises Parliament, by submitting the budget too late, by not making policy papers available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u15	Mr Calvo, you have ten seconds left. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u16	The problem cited is not in itself. It is not the first time that a minister of your party and of your government has lied to Parliament. I very much hope that there will be far too many losers in the affair that our country's numero uno sends a very clear signal on this matter to Parliament, its ministers, and to the people outside, who are very concerned about the way in which the majority of our country is running.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u17	Madam President and Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions, which I hope will allow me to provide some calm light. I'll try to be as precise as possible. I have had the opportunity to speak on this in plenary. Of course, I did so on the basis of the elements I had at that time. It is an absolute rule that when a minister is confronted with Parliament, he can only speak on the basis of the elements at his disposal at the moment when he speaks. It is certain that, in such a case, and given that the designation was about a year ago, a few days were needed to clarify certain aspects and to gather the various documents in order to make them available to Parliament, as has been done. In this regard, Mrs Matz, I would like to inform you at the outset that I have looked carefully at the documents transmitted by the Minister and the President of the Mobility FPS. I see that they overlap for a large part. The difference is that the Minister was not in a position to disclose documents sent within the administration because she cannot transmit e-mails exchanged between public servants. Perhaps some e-mails have not been sent, but this does not alter the perception that one can have of the file, since they did not relate to the procedure for designation - in the strict sense - of this law firm. I now turn to the specific elements of the file. Parliament had the opportunity to hear, and it is quite normal, the President of the SPF and the minister. He was thus able to be informed from the point of view of the different parties, so that everyone could form an opinion in his own soul and conscience. A first point seems important to me – and I understand that there may be nuances of perception. Some consider that the Minister has not assumed responsibility for the appointment of the law firm. In order to be clear, it is clear from the documents submitted that the administration was well informed of the procedure for designation in the general context of the overflight and the airport and in the particular case of State aid, which constituted a problem to be addressed in the emergency. So, Mrs. Matz, you are confusing. You say that, from the beginning, it was about the overflight of Brussels. That is true, but two other aspects – the theft procedure and Belgocontrol – followed the more specific one of state aid. Again with respect to the designation, I would like to point out that, while the administration has been informed and associated, as evidenced by the electronic exchange of views, and I do not dispute it, it is the minister who is responsible for the appointment of the law firm. There is no doubt about that. I would like to underline that the Minister takes responsibility for the appointment of the law firm. To be quite clear, there is a difference between being involved in the preparation of a decision and taking the decision. I would add that various criticisms have been made and I would like to address them one after the other. Firstly, is there a conflict of interest? I have heard questions in plenary, sometimes insinuations, and I have read statements in the press. No one, and Mrs Lalieux has had the honesty to acknowledge it, which I salute, can contest the fact that there is no conflict of interest. There's no favoritism. There was no small game to favor one office or the other at the expense of another. There is no connection between Ms. Galant or a member of her firm and the law firm in question. I would add that if this firm was chosen, it was also, because at the time of this legal difficulty in a complex case, it was necessary to find a firm that had both experience and expertise in complex technical matters and was not already involved in previous proceedings for or against any interest in the case. These factors must be taken into account if an objective analysis of the situation is to be attempted. I therefore have the feeling and the conviction – and I maintain my reasoning in this regard – that there has been good faith in the head of the minister throughout the operations that led to this decision. I also note, and I want to be clear about that, that the President of the CPS admitted that he made a mistake when he gave his opinion to the minister's office. This error, it is true, was subsequently repaired by e-mails that have nuanced, the least we can say, the point. The Minister acknowledged her administrative imprudentness in the process of designating the law firm in question. I want to confirm what I said in plenary session: I think we need to consult several law firms. The Finance Inspectorate also confirms this, although it shows clearly in what context this decision is taken and what precedents were in this regard. Therefore, imprudentness relates to the procedure that has not been regular. I want to say this with clarity since I think it was more prudent to ask for three offers and to seek an opinion from the Finance Inspectorate, not a posteriori as was done. The opinion was sought ex post as a result of a lack of understanding between the administration and the firm, as the firm believed that the administration would be in charge of requesting this opinion. It's also a reckless thing I have to recognize. Complementary item. I come to the reasons for Clifford's consultation and choice. As far as Clifford's choice is concerned, I have already given some arguments. I have the impression that nobody, not today and not at the previous committee meetings, has seriously disputed the principle that it is necessary to seek external legal advice in these matters. I also note that I do not appreciate the fact that the predecessors of Jacqueline Galant have also made the choice to ask for external advice. The budget is generally the same; on an annual basis, the same figures are used for external legal advice. I heard that the quality of the lawyer's office in question was being challenged. One of the lawyers associated with and concerned with this case was Director-General of the Legal Service of the European Commission, Director of State Aid within the Directorate-General for Competition; all the lawyers concerned had significant experience in litigation as complex as the disputes in question. This is an objective element that no one can contest, even if a parliamentarian may consider his or her opinion to be superior to that kind of opinion on the subject. I've heard a lot about the invoices and the rates. I note that invoices and the level of tariffs are similar to market rates for such complex matters. I asked, for example, when preparing this committee, to calculate the average hourly rate on the five invoices received, on the basis of the volume of hours charged. We arrive at an average hourly rate of 250 euros, which is a common rate for this type of services from a specialized law firm. Three hundred and eighty-five euros is the maximum rate, but an average should be calculated since depending on the type of lawyer working on the file, a different hourly rate is charged. I would add that the commitment has been made – and this must always be the case – that a critical analysis of the invoices be carried out so that there is a check on the benefits before the invoices are paid. No payments have been made to date, precisely to allow critical analysis of invoices. I come to the procedure for the public contract. As I said at the outset, there is an administrative imprudence, which in my view is an administrative error, even if there was an initial opinion of the administration denied by the following who seemed to allow this possibility. I am asked what happened on the night of November 3rd to 4th, if I understood Mrs Lalieux's question correctly. I wasn't there on the night of November 3rd to 4th, as you can imagine. What I see in any case, and what is reported, and I put it on the good faith of the various protagonists, is that telephone contacts actually took place at that time, for which there are obviously slightly different interpretations. However, the situation remains unchanged: in the end, it is the minister, as I said, who assumes responsibility for a decision. It simply shows that there has been an exchange of information, a joint reflection prior to a decision, and then it is the minister who has to make a decision and take on it, I confirm it. The report by the Finance Inspectorate also stresses that the practices existed long before Minister Galant took office, and that, as I said two weeks ago, it was preferable to consult several law firms. I want to be clear about this, even if the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate which we have consulted is a form of irregularity in the procedure which has not been fully respected. However, recognize that the Finance Inspectorate sheds light on the context in which this type of irregular decision has already been taken in the past. This does not excuse us for the future, it does not eliminate the irregularity, but we must all learn from it and this case must undoubtedly encourage us to take more precautions and to exercise more caution. I could quote from the excerpts where, in a similar context, the Finance Inspectorate explains that in complex, moving and evolving legislation, one can find oneself in a situation where practices were not perfectly in harmony in the different administrations. We must learn from this for the future. I said immediately in plenary that I would ask my Chancellery to prepare recommendations for the future. You know that an important process is under way to develop new legislation as part of the implementation of the latest European directive in this area. We did not wait: before the information on the consultation of the law firm came, the government took the initiative to prepare this legislation. I can inform you that the commission that prepared these pieces of legislation, which also involves the federated entities, produced a first document validated at first reading to the government and submitted it to the Council of State whose opinion we are awaiting. There are several passages that we will look at with great attention at second reading. It is also the passages that concern service providers and legal providers. Mr Maingain, I am not going to go into technical matters, but you know, in any case as far as this directive is concerned, that it makes a complex distinction in terms of legal services between the simple opinion phase and the pre-litigation or litigation phase. Everyone here sees the difficult interpretations in which lawyers can spend a lot of hours cutting hair in four, to say so, to see in which case we really need to consult several offices and, in which other cases, we may not consult several offices. In an attempt to learn from this situation with common sense, I asked for the Chancellery to be able to submit to Parliament, at the same time as we examine the legislation, good practices to be sure of one thing. Maybe it's the most important thing. It must be certain that, in future, the broadest rule is the consultation of at least three lawyers' offices. If there were to be derogations from this principle, there must be transparent, precise, objective, easily verifiable criteria so that there is no longer any ambiguity, any doubt and any subsequent questioning that may raise unease or unpleasant questions about the subject in question. Here are some of the things I wanted to tell you. On the basis of these elements, I confirm what I said in plenary session, but I do not mind a few. The elements that we were able to read after the plenary session reinforce the reasoning. It would have been preferable, more prudent to consult three lawyers' offices. It was indeed in accordance with the rules of procedure to seek the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate before and not ex post facto. In view of the amounts, contrary to what some have said, it was not necessary to move to the Council of Ministers, but an opinion of the Budget Minister should have been sought. The rules must be extremely clear in relation to this. There is no ambiguity on the subject. I come now, before we discuss the future, Mr Geerts, to your documents. Let me smile anyway. I was a member of parliament, too. I know the formatting a little theatrical. I have a document here. It's amazing. It's exceptional. This document, you should have read it. You didn't just have to show it. You could have been reassured. But I know you're too smart and too smart to know what it's about. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u18	Let me go to the end! Don't interrupt me! Mr Geerts, what document is this about? It is a document, in addition to the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, which dates from 1 October. This is the opinion requested by the Minister a posterori on the matter in question. It is simply the table which contains the basic allocations for an estimated amount of EUR 400 000, the budget line which will be used to be able to pay the invoices, exactly as said, in the form of literature and not in the form of a table, the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance. You are now completely reassured, I am convinced, by this information, which must surprise you because you did not expect me to give you that answer. Mr Hellings, you are right. What is important for the future is the file du survol autour de l'aéroport. That's a delicate and difficult file. If this issue had been simple and consensual, it would have been a long time ago for a government to resolve it unanimously in Parliament's votes! What is it? This is a case in which the question of economic development and employment must be combined with legitimate respect for the residents around this airport. That is what is at stake. It's not easy! It's a complex case! What was the government's decision on this matter as soon as it was put in place? In our coalition agreement, I said that we should immediately, in the short term, declare a moratorium on the basis of the previous decision of Minister Wathelet. That's a choice. I can accept that some political parties disagree with this political choice, but this political choice has had its first effect. However, this has helped to improve the situation for several hundred thousand residents. We have also taken into account a study, which some are contesting, namely the study of the ULB. But other decisions have also been taken in recent months on this issue. Of course, there was this preparatory work on a possible legislative initiative under the government agreement. This possible legislative initiative is part of a comprehensive framework. A legal initiative for a flying law... that's the denomination some people use. This text has at no time been politically validated by the minister and has therefore, a fortiori, never been submitted to the Council of Ministers. It will be part of a comprehensive discussion with other elements that can contribute to new, more structural solutions to the issue of overflight around the airport. In concrete terms, decisions – I could review them but you know them – have already been taken on the subject of the Brussels overflight. For the future, for example, we want to make greater use of technological innovation, which may improve the situation while ensuring safety. I would just like to conclude my speech by highlighting the points that I believe are essential for this committee. The minister made an administrative mistake. On the basis of these different elements, it appears that good faith is confirmed. There is no conflict of interest in this case. All documents and information were made available to Parliament as the government and the minister became aware of it. There was a willingness to use the necessary expertise in a complex case, as the past has shown. The report of the Finance Inspectorate reinforces the context of legal confusion. The government is committed to taking all the consequences for the future, particularly in the context of the transposition of the public procurement directive. Finally, and this will be my last word at this stage, I call for Parliament and the government, in serenity and determination, to work so that it is possible to find lasting, structural solutions in the context of this difficult issue of the overflight around the airport. Early decisions have already been made. Many more will have to be. As on all other files, we will do everything possible to ensure serenity and determination in the search for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u19	Prime Minister, I gather my notes and I see that you have tried to answer everyone. I will repeat the few words you have just given in conclusion. You said, "The minister made an administrative mistake." You first talked about imprudence in the sitting, then you talked about error, then irregularity and finally, administrative error. You should inform us about these concepts. You mentioned the term "irregularity". That is what we have been supporting from the beginning. It's an irregularity. You said that Mrs Galant had transmitted the majority of the documents and that the documents she had not transmitted were not useful to the file, were internal to the administration and therefore could not have known about them. I simply ask that you take note of the May 22 e-mail from the administration, which is sent to the firm, its legal counsel, which is often cited in this file. I read: "The law firm Clifford has been performing services for more or less eight months and, to date, the legal service has received no statement of fees and fees from them. The legal service did not, of course, make any payment of fees to this firm. In this context, the Legal Service would like to know whether it should take over Clifford Chance's fees from its budget and, on the other hand, whether the answer should be yes, to obtain copies of the statements of costs and fees of that law firm in order to avoid... " These elements, do not say that they are superfluous to the proper knowledge of the file. They are, of course, necessary for the proper understanding of the case. They are trying to prove that the administration did not know what it was about and that on several occasions it has requested evidence in relation to the mission. You said, "I call on Parliament and the government to work on lasting solutions, hand in hand." I also call on the government to shoulder its responsibilities. How do you want us, the parliament, to work with you, the government, hand in hand, when trust is so low? How do you want Parliament to trust your government, your Minister of Mobility, again tomorrow, as long as all the facts that have been shown prove that there has been subtraction of documents from Parliament and that there has been a lie. When you tell us in plenary on 29 October that you were not aware of the entire file, because the information came to you by drop, I would remind you that on the eve of the meeting, we had forwarded to the committee all the exhibits, among which was the email of 7 November 2014, which clearly states that it is the firm that chooses to work with Clifford Chance. On October 29, you were aware of all the documents on the file, in any case, of those necessary for her understanding, namely that it was the cabinet that chose Clifford Chance, outside of any legal procedure, and that at the time the minister was put in trouble about it, she preferred to lie to Parliament. Work hand in hand, surely! In fact, whenever we could, we acted in a constructive spirit. But you think that, under these conditions, it is extremely complicated for us to continue in this way. That is why we have tabled a motion of distrust of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u20	Prime Minister, you said that Ms. Galant should, preferably, have made three requests to three law offices. But it is not a matter of preference here, Prime Minister, it is mandatory! In any case, you can be said to be quite synchronous with Mrs Galant's. Between the end of October and the beginning of November, the Mobility FPS was mobilised by the firm to find a law firm to assist it in the state aid case. The Belgian State was in fact under attack by the European Commission because it considered that Belgium was assisting Brussels Airlines. While the government was in office, a law firm outside of any case had to be found urgently, as the former law firm had not given satisfaction. All of this is true and I agree with you that, as far as state aid is concerned, Clifford Chance has some experience in competition. But that's not the case for the rest. Today, however, Clifford Chance is working on state aid, the overflight of Brussels in general, the Vliegwet and on a law concerning Belgocontrol. Ms Galant, through the question of State aid, has unlawfully expanded Clifford Chance's mission. Indeed, it would have been necessary to opt for a proper market, very broad, for the editorial missions of the Vliegwet, the drafting of the Belgocontrol law, and I do not know what other mission we will discover in the coming days since Clifford Chance seems to spend her life in Mrs Galant's cabinet. That's right, we have to get back to the basic file. Mr. Ducarme said that there was a need for a balanced solution. You said so too, Prime Minister. In this history, on the one hand, there are the economic interests, embodied by Brussels Airport, a major company, and Belgocontrol, and on the other hand, there is the health of the residents and the environment, embodied rather by the Mobility FPS. The other players in this room are the Regions, which are responsible for the environment and health. We have to make a balance. This Galant case, through the commitment of the law firm Clifford Chance, which worked in the most complete secrecy on this Vliegwet, demonstrated the choice made by this government and by Ms. Galant, that is, the choice of economic interests and not the choice of residents and regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We would have saved a lot of time if you had come earlier to answer all these questions, especially before Ms. Galant's performance. The first thing to remember is that you say that Mrs Galant takes responsibility for appointing the cabinet, which she never told us on Tuesday afternoon. I think it's brave, but I would have liked you to go a step further, as you can imagine, to say that this designation is illegal. You're talking about administrative prudence and I've been looking into the definition of administrative prudence. Prime Minister, you are a lawyer, surely very good, and you have the courage to say that she is responsible. Of course, it has committed an illegality with regard to the 2006 Public Procurement Act. You say that it is in good faith, that there is no question of favouritism, but it has not brought several companies into competition. It also committed an irregularity with regard to the Royal Decree on Administrative Control. There is therefore an illegality with regard to the law on public procurement and an irregularity with regard to the royal decree. Prime Minister, you didn't mention the contract. Again, do you find it good management not to have written a contract or mission letter to verify the benefits based on the invoices sent? The bills are very laconic, Prime Minister. We have all seen this in the press. I would like you to tell us one more word about this contract, because Mrs Galant indicated in the press that she had put an end to it on 1 November. However, the contract does not exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u22	You're kidding! There is a difference between the formal document and...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u23	In addition, you have no longer spoken of urgency, confidentiality or special areas. Here too, Prime Minister, I wonder why we were given an hour and a half of legal demonstration on these three aspects by your minister. You may be taking responsibility for your minister, but that wasn't his case on Tuesday afternoon. Then I understood that this was only a draft bill, and fortunately for the Brussels people. Indeed, it does not have any beacons to determine the route of these runways. There are no wind standards or overflights of densely populated areas. In addition, there is nothing to do with day and night flights. What a waste of money and a waste of money! Prime Minister, if you have shown courage, although you have not spoken the words of irregularity and illegality, Mrs Galant has never spoken of her responsibility. Again, assuming responsibility and telling the whole truth before a parliament means having some political courage. For 15 days, we waited for such recognition from Mrs Galant, but we never got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to point out a small omission on your part because we did not get the N-VA bill! You use the term "administrative carelessness". Both words are interesting. "Unwise" may suggest that the minister forgot to drink coffee in the morning and that she did not know very well what she was doing and the term "administrative" means that she got the wrong button on her computer and sent a message to one firm rather than three! Let's stay serious, Prime Minister! What is it? This is not an administrative imprudence. It is a minister who, consciously, has committed irregularities because, as you have acknowledged, the SPF, in its e-mails, warns her that she must consult three law firms. In this context, the FPS error, instead of being a mitigating circumstance, becomes an aggravating circumstance since it warns that it was wrong and that it was necessary to contact three firms. The Minister was therefore fully aware of this obligation that she did not comply with. Changing attitudes overnight is also proof that it is not an administrative imprudence on the part of Ms Galant but that she did not take the rule into account. With respect to undisclosed documents, you tell us that there is no significant difference between the emails provided by the minister and those provided by Mr. Ledoux. I note extraordinary differences because Ms. Galant did not provide e-mails sent some months while we received them from Mr. Ledoux, which shows that the administration sent several reminders to know the situation with respect to Clifford Chance. She didn't want to answer. I don't know if it's an annoyance! She hid that the firm Clifford Chance was working on the Air Law file. She keeps hiding things from us because there is a list from Mrs Galant where we find documents that she does not hand over to us! You cannot pretend that she has given us all the documents because she herself, under false pretexts, tells us that she cannot give us any documents! You're telling us that the SPF was aware that Clifford Chance was dealing with the Brussels overflight. Once again, you play with words! You say that the issue of the Brussels overflight concerned aid to airlines. I'm sorry to tell you, but the overflight isn't that! It goes without saying that all airlines fly over, but when it comes to overflight, it is the drafting of the air law. Everyone will tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u25	No! The overview is a generic term to talk about the different elements of the file as a whole. In this case, there are drawers with different problems: state aid, Belgocontrol, Vliegwet, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, to say the same things, it seems to me that you have been over the file a little bit fast!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u27	No, I think you flew over the file a little quickly, as you often do, Mr Van Hees. But you always do it with humor and it relaxes us. We thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u28	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u29	Indeed, the whole nuance is there and you put a little confusion on purpose, I think, between Clifford Chance's missions on company aid and the drafting of the air law. That's why you're telling us that Clifford has jurisdiction over this drafting of the air law. The proof is that he is one of his lawyers, a former Director-General of the European Commission. I am a little shocked, but I suppose that as a Liberal, it should not shock you that a law firm employs a former Director-General of the European Commission to lobby, since this law firm specializes in lobbying. These are values on which our opinions diverge but which are beside the file. To return to the case, is having a former Director-General of the European Commission proof of competence? Competency or influence! I quoted Coluche in committee: "When you don't know the law, you have to know the judge." I think that is what has played in a specific case, because several cases are covered by the law firm, namely the response to the European Commission. But as far as the drafting of the air law is concerned, the incompetence of this firm is dizzying. Indeed, Mr. Ledoux told us that we had to rewrite this air law, start from scratch. You have not given anything that denies this information. I have the corrections to the air law. Virtually every article is barred and rewritten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u30	Mr Van Hees, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u31	When you say, Prime Minister, that no one denies that external advice is required, we believe in the PTB that an excessive weight is given to external law firms and that there is a need for greater trust in the administration. In any case, it is a political lesson that we draw. I conclude with a word on our motion. We do not ask for the resignation of Minister Galant but we ask you to "take the lessons of the Galantgate which has shown on the part of Minister Galant both a conscious violation of the rules of public procurement and repeated lies to the House". We ask that you remove from the Minister the competencies of Mobility and SNCB, to transfer the competence of the National Lottery to her, given the risky nature of her policy. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u32	Very seriously, Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, thank you for providing us with the additional information and others that we already had, but thank you for repeating things in relation to the choice of the law firm completely justified; in relation to the fact that obviously there was no conflict of interest, in relation to the fact that there is no favouritism, and part of the opposition also indicates that. You also provided the information regarding the fact that the administration was fully informed, even associated; the information and clarifications regarding the fact that, despite what has been heard, the hourly cost for this firm corresponds to the market price. There was a lot of excess in this case and in these exchanges. Objectivating certain things is important. This comes out of some fantasies that some have helped spread. Other points you have come back to: the almost rough legal context in the field of public procurement; irregularities – you have indicated the term, contrary to what some have said. You talked about irregularities, you talked about administrative error. Indeed, the Finance Inspectorate tells us: there are steps to be taken. It is useful, at some point, as you do, to look to the future. You naturally tell us that it is very important to quickly transpose the European directive into our law, to do so with the necessary follow-up and attention. You also tell us that the government will take all the necessary steps to move things forward in the right direction. Hence your call on the file that matters to the Brussels people: the fly-over file. Your appeal to the opposition to move this issue forward in a way that guarantees the economic development, employment and health of residents is crucial. This probably allows us to turn a page, to reflect on the substantive files, those that really matter. Finally, for the majority of us, this incident is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u33	Mr Prime Minister, it took you 15 days to finally arrive at a clear point: the procedure has been irregular. You said it, there's no doubt. The illegality is obvious. Why did you come to this obvious? Because it was no longer tenable to hold another speech. It was no longer tenable to hold another speech, because parliamentary work has had effects, because the work of the press, the warning, has led you to say that the opposite of the truth cannot be held for long. But Mrs Galant, on Tuesday, dared to tell us once again by looking straight at us in the white eye: "I humbly consider", I have no doubt, "not having tried to circumvent the regulation on public procurement", she bypassed the law on public procurement, "or favored a law firm". Of course, it did not favour it by taking interest, but when you do not respect competition, you favour it by definition. So, she once again told us the opposite of the truth on Tuesday and you just brought her the most insane insane. After that, political responsibility looks at our assembly and looks at your government. Fifteen days, three weeks to see what was established at the start of the game! It is in this perhaps even more serious than if Mrs Galant, from the beginning, had confessed, acknowledged more than one mistake: an irregularity. And we can try to contextualize everything we want, the law is the law. Point. We are ready to discuss with you the future law. Like you, I believe that the European directive is not the happiest, that it will pose many problems of interpretation and that perhaps it is better to remain with the current legal regime, which it, at least, is clear. So let's not talk about what will be difficult tomorrow to try to avoid today's evidence. I don't think Mrs. Galant will fall. I'll tell you why. Because you have given him the most rotten dossier of Belgian political life in recent years. And in short, his good faith, as you describe it, is the right alibi to try to pass on the most abhorrent decisions that will be brought before us in this bill. In short, it is the harpy in a majority who are busy imposing difficult political choices on it. That's why you pleaded his good faith! It's mostly to better apologise for his next mistakes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I'm gonna take the table again. After all, you were a little laughable about it. The table is a professional record. This happens at the beginning of a financial year and not on 1 October of that year. How did you get that professional commitment? You say that you gave all the documents to Parliament. Be glad that I drew your attention to this today, because I think you did not know about the table and the e-mails when you had to answer the file in the Chamber last time. Actually, you're saying that the administration I'm referring to had no credit and didn't know what to pay on 29 September. Deus ex machina takes care of it two days later. I challenge you, Prime Minister. Do you have precedents, do you have other documents in which a minister single-handedly signs a provisional appropriation of EUR 400 000? Or is it the new style of your government, in which ministers can sign credit lines themselves today? Is that the new good governance your government wants to testify to? Let me be positive, because I have also heard positive elements. You say very clearly that the Minister is responsible and that the procedure has gone irregularly. I should like to congratulate you, as well as my fellow Members and the press. After two or three weeks in our house, we finally get your Prime Minister's confession that mistakes have been made. I do not understand, however, that you do not draw any conclusions from this. You're saying the Minister made a mistake, that irregularities have happened, but it's not about it. Do you really mean what you're saying? Do you think ministers of your government are above the law? Are you saying that the legislation in our country counts for all citizens, but not for your ministers, who can decide on their own? Mr Prime Minister, I find that disappointing. I have said that I have heard positive elements in your reply, but I find the conclusions you draw or rather fail to draw disappointing. I believe that this practice also undermines credibility. That's the essence of the story. We certainly need credibility in the department. At the beginning of my interview I talked about an important reform of SNCB and the aviation dossier. Mobility in our country is becoming increasingly problematic. It cannot be that when we point out a problem of functioning, the Prime Minister agrees, but at the same time advises us to all go home this Friday evening and watch the football game quietly. Let's get out of here!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u35	Prime Minister, I will start with the positive. I have appreciated the tenor of your speech this afternoon more than the tenor of Mrs Galant's reply earlier this week. You also invited the opposition to work on a number of substantive discussions. I'm sure we'd like to get into that. If we can go beyond the sterile debate, which we still see too often in Parliament, and certainly by the current majority, in a number of dossiers, then we are delighted to do so. However, I have two elements I would like to share with you. I understand why Mrs Galant still until Tuesday, and perhaps until today, thought that she could deal with the dossier in such a laconical way. I believe that there are the following reasons for this. First of all, despite the more positive and interesting tone of your speech, you are still making too much sense today of what your minister has done and thus pave the way for a similar error in the future. I certainly do not agree with you when you say that an administrative error has occurred. You must say much more clearly that your minister has broken the law in this matter. I also do not agree that you continue to say that she was of good faith. Why not? The minister and her cabinet were asked several times, for months, to be honest and transparent about the mission. If she had been of good will, she would always have replied to that second e-mail from her administration. So the minister was the mauvaise foi. The fact that you are still relativizing this is therefore not a good thing and problematic for the follow-up. A second reason why Minister Galant thinks he can afford such an attitude is obvious: we have again not heard CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA on the file today. They seem to accept such a thing and hold a minister who does so over his head. Of the five or six N-VA MEPs present, no one dares open their mouths. There was just a little discomfort and boredom about a comparison I made. I can only observe that the majority, a majority of law and order, is tough on young people who make mistakes, and people who are struggling are hard on job seekers who drop a stab, hard on all aspects of security, home affairs and justice, but the law does not seem to apply to their own ministers. If they violate them, there will be a deathly silence of the three Flemish majority parties, because they think this party policy is convenient and they can do something with it next time. The Minister may remain seated now. She's weakened, so maybe we can get something done about that. That attitude, Prime Minister, makes many losers and brings bad points in society to politics, which is very dear to me. That's why I'm questioning your outstretched hand. You want to work together on a difficult dossier in the future. How fantastic it would be if we in Parliament could finally resolve that difficult dossier across the borders of majority and opposition. With the current majority, however, that is very difficult, Prime Minister. I have just given a number of examples. It is very difficult to work with ministers who are not honest with Parliament and to whom you do not say a word. I invited you today to be very clear. You have been clearer than your minister, but not sufficiently clear to put an end to such an important dossier, after two difficult weeks for the majority and the entire political world. Inevitably, it will remain on the agenda in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u36	Madam President, I will reply very briefly and without any provocation to avoid the enthusiasm of parliamentarians. You asked me about something important, Mrs. Lalieux. You're saying there's no document or contract. It is also a subject to be drawn the conclusions for the future. In reality, mission orders are or would be covered by professional secrecy. The stickman was questioned on this subject. In the future, it will be necessary to distinguish between the order of mission, which must be transparent and capable of being communicated, and not to mix elements of content which would be covered by professional secrecy. I am right, I would prefer a situation in which we can communicate precisely mission orders to have clear documents that define the scope of the mission and the framework that governs the rights and obligations of both parties to a contract. We must draw the consequences in relation to that. Finally, I am sad that Mr Maingain has already left, and I am still sad when he leaves, because I wanted to tell him that, from the plenary, I made it clear without any ambiguity that, in my view, three opinions should have been sought. You can't say it took two weeks for me to say it! In fact, a few days later, the Finance Inspectorate confirmed this reasoning in its report and explained the framework, the context, the largely mitigating circumstances under which this irregularity was committed. I have made it clear that such recklessness is a form of administrative error and procedural irregularity. I explained the points that seemed wrong to me. In conclusion, I reiterate the government's determination to work seriously and to make every effort to provide serenity on a difficult and delicate issue. We have a political duty to try to bring about lasting and structural solutions to this phenomenon. It is a matter of reconciling the imperatives of economic development and job creation, and, as you pointed out by Mr Hellings, of health and respect for residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u37	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Parliament has the final say. Colleagues who would like to react are entitled to a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u38	Prime Minister, the documents you mentioned – the mission letter and the contract – are absolutely not covered by professional secrecy. Let's imagine that, as an individual, you decided to change your lawyer, the one you're offloading will pass on your case to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u39	He'll give it to the other lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u40	Not at all. What he's going to tell him is confidential mail between lawyers. We all know that. Prime Minister, statements of fees and the purpose of the mission are documents that belong to the client. If he decides to broadcast them himself, he can do it. This is not covered by professional secrecy. You can check with lawyers. We've done it enough. Second point, when you said, "I didn't talk about anything else on October 29, I said we had to make a call." The minister, last Tuesday, claimed that we were in the legal system because before that, we didn't have to, after that perhaps it would not have to be because of the directive, and that now, as it is a special sector, there was no need for a public procurement. It made it very clear that there was no need for a public procurement. We thank you for confirming that you needed one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u41	Prime Minister, you are making it clear that Minister Galant has not complied with the rules. She doesn't say that; she says everything and her opposite. That is a difference of appreciation. You say she did it without her knowledge of her own free will. I think that is not the case at all, but that she has consciously violated the rules. Finally, I note that the failure to comply with the rules results in the State being injured, because it paid very much for a zero service, including the drafting of the air law, which has been recommenced from scratch. Therefore, I believe that the amounts required by the law firm Clifford Chance should be questioned. Indeed, it is not normal for the State to be injured. Perhaps the MR should intervene, go to his personal caisse or what do I know! In short, we must dare to question the fees required by Clifford Chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u42	Prime Minister, I would like to mention another technical element concerning the confidentiality of the contract. The essence of the story is the question of who the client is. Is that Minister Galant in person or is that the Belgian State? If that is the Belgian State, the contract must be given very clearly to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u43	Mr. Ducrame will not be mad at me for 15 seconds from my bench chair. Prime Minister, the problem lies in the fact that there is an irregularity from the start. Indeed, the contract and its content are defined by the terms of reference. Since we started wrong, we ended up wrong and ended up illegal. There is no question here of professional secrecy, but of an illegal start without specifications, without contracts and without mission letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-13-54-commissie-ic266x.u44	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. David Geerts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Marco Van Hees, Olivier Maingain, David Geerts et Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, asks the Prime Minister - to condemn in the strongest terms the failure of the Minister for Mobility to comply with the law. - call on the Minister of Mobility to take on her responsibilities. - to give the House access to all the services already provided by the law firm Clifford Chance in the context of the development of the future vision on noise pollution, public aid to the air sector, the financing of Belgocontrol, and the development of the government's strategic vision for the air sector, so that Parliament can fully exercise its oversight role and decide whether public money has been spent wisely." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr David Geerts and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, asks the Prime Minister - to strongly condemn the failure of the Minister for Mobility to comply with the law, - call on the Minister for Mobility to assume its responsibility, - to give the Chamber access to all the services provided by law firm Clifford Chance with regard to the elaboration of the future vision on noise, state aid to the aviation sector, the financing of Belgocontrol and the drawing up of the government's strategic vision on the aviation sector, so that Parliament can fully carry out the audit task and assess whether public expenditure is well spent and useful." A motion of distrust was tabled by Messrs. Georges Dallemagne and Olivier Maingain read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Marco Van Hees, Olivier Maingain, David Geerts et Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, and taking into account - the flagrant illegality committed by the Minister for Mobility in appointing a law firm in violation of the procedures laid down in the Law on Public Procurement, - the lack of transparency of the Minister of Mobility with regard to the House of Representatives, which did not transmit all the documents relating to this matter, even though they had been expressly requested by the Speaker of the House, - repeated lies by the Minister of Mobility, who tries to put all the blame on her administration, even though all the decisions she is accused of emanating from her cabinet, withdraws its trust in the Minister of Mobility." A motion of censure was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Olivier Maingain as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, and taking into account - the flagrant unlawful action by the Minister for Mobility in the context of the appointment of a law firm in which it has infringed the procedures laid down in the Public Procurement Act, - the lack of transparency shown by the Minister for Mobility to the Chamber of Representatives by not submitting all the documents relating to this matter to the Chamber, although the President of the Chamber had expressly asked for them; - the repeated lies of the Minister of Mobility, who tries to pass all the mistakes on to her administration, while the disputed decisions were all made by her cabinet, declares her confidence in the Minister of Mobility." A second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Marco Van Hees, Olivier Maingain, David Geerts et Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - recognize the illegality of the procedure for the appointment of Clifford Chance by the Minister of Mobility; - to provide a detailed and exhaustive list of the services performed by Clifford Chance; - to respect the priority criterion of avoiding the most densely populated areas when developing new air routes; - conduct a safety, capacity and environmental impact study when defining new air routes; - to change the timetable of the Brussels-National airport to extend the night from 10pm to 7am instead of 11pm to 6am; - gradually restrict the noise quotas and tonnage levels of aeroplanes authorised to take off from Brussels-National between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m.; - gradually lowering the ceiling of 16,000 night flights per year; - to create an independent noise control authority linked to Brussels-National which includes representatives of the Regions." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - recognise the illegality of the procedure for appointing Clifford Chance by the Minister for Mobility; - transmit a detailed and exhaustive list of Clifford Chance's performance; - to take account of the priority criterion of avoiding the most densely populated areas in the design of new routes; - to carry out a safety, capacity and environmental impact study when defining new flight routes; - adjust the timetable of Brussels Airport in such a way that the night is extended from 23 to 6 hours to the period between 22 and 7 hours, - to reduce gradually the noise quotas and tonnage of aircraft allowed to take off at Brussels Airport between 22 and 7 hours; - gradually reduce the annual ceiling of 16,000 night flights; - to establish an independent authority to monitor noise pollution caused by Brussels Airport and to ensure that there are representatives of the Regions.' A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Ms Karine Lalieux and Mr M. Marco Van Hees, Olivier Maingain, David Geerts et Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government 1. to minimize the use of external firms by departmental firms and to give priority to the under-recognized competencies of the administration; 2. to remind all members of the government to order scrupulous compliance with the rules of public procurement; 3. to challenge the amounts required by Clifford Chance in view of the absence of a written contract, the excessive rates charged by Clifford Chance and the poor quality of the work done (in particular with regard to the drafting of the draft air legislation, which the administration had to start over from scratch), all of the consequences of the Minister's failure to comply with the rules; 4. to draw the lessons of the ‘GalantGate' - which has shown on the part of Minister Galant both a conscious violation of the rules of public procurement and repeated lies to the House - by removing from the Minister the competences of Mobility and SNCB in order to transfer the competence of the National Lottery to it, having regard to the risky nature of its policy." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Vanessa Matz, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Marco Van Hees, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government 1. the appointment of external firms by keeping ministerial cabinets to a strict minimum and giving preference to the use of the competences available in the administration and to an insufficient degree recognised; 2. to call all members of the government to order with regard to strict compliance with public procurement rules; 3. contest the amounts demanded by the Clifford Chance office in the absence of a written agreement, the excessive rates applied by the office and the poor quality of the work done (in particular as regards the text of the preliminary draft flight law, which had to be completely reworked by the administration), all of which are consequences of the Minister's failure to comply with the rules; 4. draw lessons from Galantgate in the context of which it has been found that Minister Galant has deliberately violated the rules on public procurement and has also repeatedly lied to the Chamber by depriving the Minister of the powers relating to Mobility and SNCB and giving it the power over the National Lottery, in view of the risks associated with its policies." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Christoph D'Haese, Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme et Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christoph D'Haese, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
