ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honour to replace Mr Vermeulen this afternoon as chairman of this committee. The Commission had decided to hold regular meetings with the Minister to take stock of the reform of fire services. I will therefore give the floor to Minister Jambon for a preliminary statement on this issue, and then I propose that the questions on the agenda be put. After the Minister's answers, there may be a reply and a few complementary interventions if issues that have not been addressed remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u2	Mr President, I thank you for this way of working because with regard to the reform of fire services, it is important that we have a regular exchange of views. As in any reform, it is at the beginning of a process that we see shortcomings and that we can improve things. As representatives of the people, members also have a lot of contacts in the communes and relief areas, so they have a role to play in this improvement. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to give you a rather comprehensive state of affairs. I think I will deal with most of the questions that have been tabled and give an answer to them or consider them. Of course, everyone will be free to discuss this further afterwards. That's why I brought the two people from my cabinet who are involved in the fire department reform. If allowed in the discussion, they can deal with very technical aspects. We'll see how the work evolves. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, a state of affairs. Then I would like to deal with a number of issues and outstanding action points. Civil security reform is a major title. That has been limited to a reform of the fire department. The whole issue of civil security reform does not talk about civil protection reform, nor about urgent medical aid. I'll get back to you on that. What is the state of play on the reform of the fire department? As you all know, the reform is based on the principles of the Paulus Commission, which has worked for a long time. The key concepts were scaling up, fastest adequate assistance and refinancing of the fire department. The overall safety chain was taken into account. The five elements of the safety chain are: proaction, prevention, preparation or preparation, repression and aftercare. The Paulus Committee's finding was that the element of repression or the fight against fires was best dealt with, but that proaction, prevention, preparation and aftercare were sometimes inadequate. The better prevention, the less repression we have to do: that is not only in the fire department's file, but also in other files. So those were the findings of the Paulus Committee. Where are we today? Early this year, on 1 January 2015, the fire department reform was put into practice. Twenty-eight of the thirty-four relief zones have actually started. Six Walloon zones have postponed the start of their zone until this year. On 1 April, i.e. within a few weeks, the Walloon Brabant and Liège 3, the province of Liège is divided into five zones. Liège 5 will enter into force on 1 June. Liège 3, Liège 4 and Hainaut East enter into force on 1 July. That's the planning of the zones. All 34 zones will be launched on 1 July. There is still work to be done on legislative work. A number of implementing decisions have not been taken or have not yet been taken. The Royal Decree on training, the Ministerial Decree on the list of adapted lighter tasks for end of career, the Royal Decree on general inspection and the Royal Decree on Diploma Grants are matters that are still in preparation. There is also an urgent need to update the Royal Decree on the administrative and pecuniary status of firefighters and paramedics. I'll be back to that in a minute. That's the state of play with the fire department. Then I come to the state of civil protection. Civil protection has completely lost sight of this reform. We need to take a good look at this, because today, civil protection is almost a side-organisation of the fire department, and we see that civil protection loses its influence and added value year after year. I believe that this organisation deserves better than that. Another flaw concerns urgent medical care. This was also overlooked in the reform process and there are problems on the ground. Because of the new status of firefighters, and therefore of the paramedics, the reformed firefighters have greatly increased the cost of urgent medical aid, and that cannot be the intention. As a result, many zones effectively close the number of ambulance stations they manage. This, of course, reduces the quality on the ground. That's a bit of a state of affairs. Now I will address a few problematic issues and actions to be taken. As far as the chapter on fire services is concerned, the first point is the organization of the fastest appropriate aid: one of the key elements of this reform. What is the context and principles in this chapter? It is up to the area to organise the most rapid appropriate aid, so that the citizen can receive adequate quality aid as quickly as possible. That's the point. There is no question here of boundaries of zones. No matter which post in the area or other area the aid comes from. The aid must not necessarily be granted in the area itself. If the fastest aid comes from another area, it is up to the latter to implement it. In addition, the most rapid departure of adequate assistance must be consistent with the incident and double departure must be avoided. In the field, vehicles sometimes arrived from different posts at the same place. The goal is to avoid this. What is the system? The graphical computer system must determine which position starts. The elements to be taken into account for this decision are travel time, availability of staff and means, presence in the post and type of incident and risk present. These are the four criteria that will determine the starting position. An XML alert system has been in use throughout Belgium for several years and has shown its reliability. However, there is a problem with billing. Indeed, if one area is to intervene in the territory of another area, there is a billing system. Today, most areas have a cooperation agreement without a scholarship unlinked on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. Nevertheless, some areas wish to charge when they have to intervene in the territory of another relief zone. In order to do so, they must conclude a mutual agreement setting out the financial and reinforcement arrangements. That is what is provided for in the law. It stipulates that in the absence of this mutual agreement, it is the area which provides relief that can charge with its own elements. Some problems remain, including the computer system. He's not in place yet. The aim is to create the Agency 112. In the meantime, we need to provide the necessary means to maintain existing IT platforms: ASTRID and CityGis. It is important to upgrade these two platforms. It is planned to do so again this year. As regards interzonal invoicing, it is observed that, due to the lack of mutual agreement, the area which grants the aid can charge. Nothing is settled in this regard. Therefore, I plan to adapt Article 6(3) of the 2007 Law so that the King can fix the tariff. Indeed, if the tariff is free, there is a great risk that conflicts will arise on the ground. That is what we want to avoid. That is the quickest part of adequate aid. Another point of concern in the organisation is the participation of volunteers in the policy bodies. The government agreement says that the government will take action to ensure that volunteers are represented within the consultation bodies and continue to occupy an important place in the fire department even after the fire reform. What is the current situation? In the Law of 15 May 2007, Articles 64, 65 and 66 only provide for a technical committee composed of the officers responsible for the posts. In terms of participation or organisation within a zone there is therefore a technical committee that brings together the postal superiors. That's at the officers' level. That technical committee shall assist the zone commander in the performance of his duties. What does that mean? The different degrees are only about officers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is quite possible that no volunteer is represented on that technical committee. Of course, this has led to complaints from volunteers that they are not sufficiently informed, that their sighs are not taken into account and that decisions are taken over their heads without any consultation. I think you agree with me that the volunteers in our firefighter landscape are an essential and necessary element of the organisation. Without the volunteers or demotivated volunteers, I think we're heading for serious problems. What are we gonna do now? A draft ministerial letter is currently being prepared by the administration. We ask that at the level of the zone next to the zonal council also choose a zonal advisory council from all sections and set it up so that the volunteers are again involved and heard in the new structure. The old fire department per municipality had that zonal advisory council. All members of the Corps were invited to participate in that zonal advisory council. Today there is no provision for such an advisory council at the level of the zone. I am not saying that we should bring all firefighters together there because then it would be an incredible talk barracks. However, we would like to come to an advisory council at a sunny level in which the volunteers are also represented. Their desires can also be listened to. Secondly, we want to amend the Royal Decree of 4 April 2003 establishing the High Council for Training for Public Fire Departments, so that it is composed of representatives of areas with many volunteers, zones with as many volunteers as professionals and zones with only professionals. That Supreme Court will therefore cover all types of zones. In this way, I hope that volunteers will be heard in a better way in future in the structures. L'arrêté royal "Formations" - draft KB on training. What is provided for in the Government Agreement? I quote: "the government wishes to provide opportunities for volunteer firefighters so that the combination of the main occupation – family and social life outside the fire department – remains possible, as for example with regard to training." A draft Royal Decree "Trainings" was released on 25 April 2014. In the field, it was assessed as a coup de grâce for the volunteers, after which this point was postponed. A new draft royal decree was then drafted on 17 December 2014. According to our evaluation, this new project is not adapted to the government agreement. This project was reviewed by our administration on 17 February 2015 and is currently being submitted to all stakeholders in two consultation rounds. What do we want to do with this royal decree "Trainings"? Of course, we want to ensure that there is no distinction between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters in their so-called "hot" tasks, i.e. firefighting missions. With regard to the other modules – evaluation, prevention and training – questions are raised about their mandatory nature for volunteers. For those who want to follow them, we are obviously in favour of it. But do we really have to overload the demands for volunteers? Tell them they can't become a firefighter if they don't follow all these modules? We wonder. But let us be clear: there is no distinction between professionals and volunteers as regards so-called "hot" tasks. We are considering further changes, including the removal of the 75% attendance requirement for theoretical courses. Being physically present at a training but having his attention riveted on his mobile phone or smartphone is completely useless. The examination may be submitted even if the candidates have considered it on their own. Attendance in the theoretical courses will no longer be compulsory. The training for obtaining the firefighter's certificate will be divided into two blocks: BO1 and BO2. Part 1 will be followed in the first year. After this year, the candidate will be able to be mobilised in a limited way. The second training block can be completed in five years in the form of modules of approximately 24 hours, for a total of 120 hours. Another change is that training for the patent also counts for 24-hour continuing training. I think I've given you the strength of the adaptations we're considering. I can tell you that the Royal Decree "Trainings" is one of my priorities. In the coming weeks, we will finalize the round of consultations, conclude and present a suitable text. A second part of the same training course concerns the federal fitness certificate. What's the status there? If we want to recruit staff, it must be done through the federal fitness certificate. The law states that recruitment can only take place after the preparation of the operational staff plan. That plan shall be mandatory within six months of the start of the zone. In other words, as the law now stands, the zones must have an operational personnel plan by 1 July. The areas can also benefit from the staff reserve. The royal decree will not be amended for the time being, so we will not block recruitment. The tests can be carried out, preferably as soon as possible in spring. We will make a number of changes to that. Many zones have informed us that it is not feasible to have the operational staff plan ready within six months. We will extend that six-month period to 12 months, i.e. to the end of the year. That entry into force is heavy. We will examine whether an administrative stool of the zones can be realised. Since we are recruiting • subject to the staff plan • give more time, the system is adjusted as follows. The first semester of the first six months of this year......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The personnel plan doesn't have to be ready yet. It is sufficient for the zoning council to take a reasoned decision on recruitment, and that can then enter into force. In the second semester this can be done on the basis of a photograph of the existing staff. If someone disappears, another may be recruited as a replacement. We are also preparing a draft ministerial letter, with which we give practical instructions for the organisation to the schools. I already signed that ministerial letter. So it will appear soon. We will monitor the first tests that have been imposed very closely. After all, we fear that the physical test that is now being imposed is too heavy. We will monitor that and, if necessary, adjust it. That adjustment could be that the test should not be completed until the end of the first year. A lighter test of admission to training is given and at the end of training one must be able to do that heavier test. Then one has a year to train and prepare for it. These are a number of adjustments to enable recruitment to start now, without the law having to be changed and without the personnel plan having to be ready. That is why we now have six months longer to do so. Next: the accompanying committee, de begeleidingscommissie. What does the government agreement provide for? It indicates that the accompanying committee will be actively involved in monitoring and evaluating the reform process. So what I am doing with this committee is also being done with the accompanying committee as regards the monitoring and evaluation of the reform process. I remind you of the composition of this committee: the Minister of the Interior, the Directorate of the Interior, Public Health and the Budget, two governors (one for each linguistic role), associations of Flemish, Walloon and Brussels towns and municipalities, civil protection, professional organisations (BVVV, Beprobel, FRCSPB) and the Regions. All these organisations are represented in the Monitoring Committee. It is clear that we will continue the functioning of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. For the time being, the committee is following the corrections to a Royal Order of Reparation, and I will come back to that. Then there are a number of recovery KBs in preparation. A reform of the Staff Regulations is in preparation, adapting to the administrative status, adapting to the financial status, to the status of ambulances and to the status of the Zone Commander. As far as the administrative status is concerned, there are a number of articles on which we get feedback from the field. These articles need to be adapted, either because they contradict themselves on certain points, or because they prove to be unworkable on the ground. Let me give you some examples. It is a non-limitative list with now details, then important things. If the Federal Fitness Test has not been passed, a waiting period of six months must be provided for the test to be repeated. That's not how I can make one attempt after another. In view of what is required in the KB training programme, the internship period is also extended by one year, from five to six years. If volunteers want to be promoted, they must have been in surgery for 180 hours. We're not gonna add up the relocation time there. In the old days, it was time to drive to the fire school. The hours spent in the car don't seem useful to me as an internship period. In promotion only the useful hours count. When there is a demand for promotion and there are no volunteers who have 180 hours of internship, the Council can decide to reduce the standard. So when there is a need to promote and none of the volunteers are eligible because they have not reached the 180-hour portfolio, but 150-160 hours, the Council can decide that that man or woman is able to do that particular job. They can therefore reduce the standard autonomously. There was also an administrative obligation, when there is a vacancy, to hang it out in each post of each zone. If there's a firefighter wanted in Aarlen, there's no point in hanging this out in Ostend. There will be few candidates for that, unless perhaps Ostendians who have an outhouse in Arlen. Those people can also consult the Aarlen website to see if there are any vacancies there. The administrative obligation to do so in all areas, in all posts, seemed to us to be somewhat exaggerated. The 36-hour rest period for volunteers not allowed to be interrupted is reduced to 24 hours. This gives a little more flexibility when drawing up the timetables. As regards the transitional measure for service chiefs, the service chiefs who did not have level A could not be appointed. We will now make provision for an assessment of whether they do not reach level A and thus can be promoted. These are adjustments to the administrative status which are currently being prepared and in which the advisory committee is involved. The same applies to the financial statute. There too, a number of articles need to be adapted because they are either contradictory or unworkable on the ground. An example of this is the regulation of the wager in the case of accidents at work. Today, in the case of an accident at work, the wager is paid at 90%, which we would like to bring to 100 %. The lieutenant's operating premium would be adjusted so that the lieutenant has no higher wager by integration than the lieutenant by promotion. It may be that in bringing posts together in one zone one lieutenant would get a higher wager by integration than another lieutenant who gets the same status through promotion, and that does not seem appropriate to us. We also allow the zones to pay out more than one hour to volunteers per intervention. A minimum of one hour has been set, but we are giving the zones the opportunity to deviate from that. In the financial statute, we also provide a guarantee that the new statute will not lower the wager. That was already true for the professional firefighters, but we are now applying it to the volunteers as well. In the new statute, there is no wager lower than in the old statute. In many places the payment of volunteers was made per trimester, which was not provided for in the financial statute. That's not an obligation, but it's a possibility. We are going to make the same changes in administrative and financial status for paramedics as for fire departments. The status of zone commander must be adapted. The title of District Commissioner will be changed to District Commissioner or Governor's Representative, as the title of District Commissioner alone is no longer valid in each province. As you know, there are four funding opportunities. First, there are communal endowments; second, federal endowments, which are too low. In Wallonia, there are also provincial endowments. Finally, we have the rewards of the missions which the king authorizes the recovery. In the case of communal grants, appeals were brought in various areas: West Flemish Brabant, East Flemish Brabant, South West Limburg, Dinafi and Luxembourg. After investigation, I decided that the governors had correctly applied the criteria. I have informed the various communes and the areas. With regard to the transfer of assets, there are also discussions. We have decided that the compensation for the transfer of goods will amount to a maximum of 20% in the municipal allocation. For example, if a municipality transfers its barracks - estimated at 100 - and the contribution of that municipality to the area is 25, the contribution of the municipality will be divided by five, i.e. 20 per cent. This means that it will take 20 years to eliminate this compensation, based on an annual 5% reduction in the contribution. There is also an administrative problem, which cannot be solved. If vehicles are transferred, it is mandatory to re-register, as this is a change of ownership. There will be a new administrative inspection, which costs 30 euros. With respect to federal staffing, we have no savings planned. What is planned will be paid. The basic allocation for the whole country amounts to EUR 31 700 000 and is paid in January. The first part of the additional allocation amounts to 42,317,000 euros. It will be paid in March. The planned total is 61,000,000 euros. The balance will be paid in the course of the year. The overall federal allocation therefore amounts to 93,072,877 euros, which is in line with the previous minister's plan. As far as the provincial allocation is concerned, I would like to point out to our Flemish colleagues that there are Walloon provinces that provide a supply to fire zones. This means that they attach great importance to security. The last option is the fees regulations. The orders the fire department is required to carry out free of charge are laid down in the Royal Decree. Anything else can be billed. In order to be able to bill that, a fee regulation has to be made in the zone. Each zone may draw up a fee regulation, which includes the interventions which are paying and which rate is the opposite. Of course, it should not be about the free assignments, described in the Royal Decree. What decisions have yet to be taken? Firstly, the introduction of a general inspection. It has been provided for, but it has not yet been decided. Secondly, the sending or making available of personnel. That still needs to be taken care of. The rules on data, budget and accounts for supervisory authorities have not yet been defined either. Then there is a list of adapted and illuminated functions to make the end of the career feasible in the fire department as well. The draft list shall be ready and shall be on the agenda of the Committee C on 26 March 2015. Finally, updating the procedures for Diploma Grants. That design's done, too. That is actually being adapted: we are not going to talk about Diploma Grants anymore, but about Specialization Grants. So we're not going to look at the diploma, but we're going to look at the competences. What do I care about a diploma? I was trained as an informatician, graduated in 1984. My degree is great, but my current competences in computer science are very low. The worst thing a fire zone could do is hire me as a computer technician. The same must be done in the area of management. We need to look more and more at management capacity. It is not because there have been brilliant fires for twenty or thirty years and because one was the best firefighter in a municipality, that one therefore also has the skills to run such a zone. How one can derive that from a diploma is also a question for me. There too, the attention of diploma holders shifts to specializations, i.e. competences. That's the fire department. With regard to civil protection, the government agreement provides for its continuation as a federal service and calls for its restructuring. The Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Protection states that civil protection is under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. Its interventions are also organised throughout the country. The Royal Decree of 17 July 2014 regulates the division of labour between civil protection and fire services. It also lists a wide range of materials, but they are not used in the end. In other words, we have given the order, now that we are reforming the fire department, with little attention being paid to civil protection, to consider what we will do with civil protection. My proposal is to place the specialised tasks that require material that would mean too much investment for the local areas in civil protection. Under specialized equipment I mean, for example, very heavy pumps. For example, a European disaster exercise was held in Antwerp last Saturday. There was pumping equipment to tell you. We cannot impose the purchase of this material on the local zones. That is why I see civil protection in the future moving towards specialised tasks with specialised equipment that is too heavy in itself to impose on the zones. For civil protection, therefore, specialism will be important and not the urgency factor. The urgency factor is local, best as close as possible to where the fire or incident occurs; that is for the local areas. The specialized tasks, for which the pressure on time to get on the ground is less important, but for which specialism is important, I see rather as being part of civil protection. This general consideration will be further developed in the coming months. We will come to this committee at some point to explain our views on this. Finally, I would like to say a word about urgent medical aid. I know that this is an absolute problem. In the field I make a lot of site visits... I am confronted with this every time. What is the problem with urgent medical aid? First of all, the costs are falling apart, the costs are only rising. The reasons for this are the new status of the ambulance workers and the judgment of the Labour Court, which has decided that the waiting time is also working time. That wasn't the case in the past, but it has since that judgment. The previous government also issued a letter stating that there are no mandatory guards for volunteers. The law says that urgent medical care is also an assignment of the fire department. The landscape of urgent medical care is also very diverse. There's urgent medical assistance connected to the fire department. There are private initiatives. There's civil protection. Then there are the hospitals. So that's a very diverse landscape. Both Mrs De Block, the Minister for Health, and myself, are very aware of this problem. We also want to take this to heart. That is why we have written a letter to the presidents of the zones asking for temporary management of the situation as a good family father and to take their responsibility. At the same time, we recognise that this is a very complex problem with a lot of players on the ground. Under the chairmanship of the Minister for Health, an ad hoc working group has now been set up, a sort of "Paulus Commission on Emergency Medical Assistance," to present its conclusions by 9 October. So that's a tight timing. What's the assignment? The programming of urgent medical assistance, a model for financing and updating the current rules. The FPS Public Health is in charge of this. Mr President, I think I have given the status of this reform of the fire zones. I am naturally open to other questions, but I think I have answered most of the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u3	Minister, we thank you for this very comprehensive, dense and interesting presentation on a subject that has matured for a number of years. I do think you have answered many questions. Subject to this reservation, I give the floor to those who have tabled questions. I shall first give the floor to Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u4	Mr President, since I had to be present in another committee, I was unable to follow the speech and to ask my questions. However, I have heard the last part of the Minister's reply. I'm assuming he's been quite complete. We have had the pleasure of receiving the Minister in our area. At that time a lot of the problems were raised. Minister, I had tabled a very specific question on Saffronberg today. I would like to turn them into a written question so that you can answer them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u5	Mr Franky Demon actually had the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u6	Mr President, Minister, you have answered a great deal, including my question about the royal decision on training. You stated that things were done on 17 February 2015 and that you will now launch a consultation round. However, we must be clear. No new recruitments have yet taken place in the new zones. I therefore ask myself the following question. If your consultation does not end positively, will we remain at zero for a while? Should we not, therefore, give the zones a transitional arrangement pending, or are you really confident that the Royal Decree will soon be able to hope that we will land before the Easter holiday? After all, there are areas that people want to recruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u7	Mr President, the recruitment and the royal decision, as I have just mentioned, are separate. A ministerial letter has now been issued stating what to do as long as the royal decree is not there. The staff plan shall be postponed by six months. In the meantime, the training courses and the federal fitness test can be organized. Where a zone is required to recruit, it may decide independently, subject to justification, to do so. An interim arrangement has therefore been drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u8	The scheme applies for six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u9	It does apply for six months. However, the consultation round for the royal decree is in the final phase. Since February 2015 until now, we have seen the majority of stakeholders. I can't say that the case has been straightened out everywhere. However, I have just indicated that we will be able to land with the Royal Decree at the end of this month. Then we will be able to publish the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u10	Mr President, I had put a very specific oral question which probably did not appear in the Minister's statement. That is why I would like to turn that question into a written question. From our area, we have submitted a series of questions, reservations, comments and suggestions to the Minister. I shall read the report of this sitting, because I assume that some of our questions were answered. In our area, moreover, the Minister had already responded in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u11	Normally Mr Van Biesen would have the floor now, but he is not here. I give the floor to Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u12	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive briefing. Of course, you've already answered a lot of questions. This is the privilege you have when you have questions before the exams. Having said that, I have a few small clarifications to ask you, from the field. I am indeed involved in the development of a new relief zone. As a mayor, I sit in a college and am vice president of an area. This college met this morning. I would therefore like to ask you a few practical questions, in particular about the resumption of buildings. In our area, in Hainaut, there have been rumours that the areas were going to buy barracks. There are even mayors who said they were going to sell their barracks to build a nursery for the children. In consulting the legislation, we realize that there is a royal decree drawn up by your predecessor, setting out the terms and conditions. However, I think that the modalities should perhaps be refined. Do you intend to refine the recovery conditions? You're talking about 5% downsizing, or 20% downsizing. By whom does the building estimate have to be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u13	It is expected that three estimates will have to be made by notaries, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u14	All right. In relation to the issue of federal endowments, you recalled that in total, the federal government was going to provide $93 million this year, with a base allocation of $31 million. You confirm to me that we are part of the path that was decided, that is to say for 2018, 174 million in total. You speak of the efforts made in some provinces; this is the case in the province of Hainaut, to help the communal finances. I assume you don't assume it's going to help the federal government cut down on staffing, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u15	No. I confirm what you are saying: it is not because there are provincial endowments that the federal government will reduce its contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u16	We are in the middle of setting up these new areas. You spoke about the problem of the resumption of staff in your introductory statement. It is not obvious, because in the end, if you take an area like mine, you will find yourself with ten barracks covering nearly forty communes. What is particularly problematic at the moment is the administrative tasks. When a small town had a barracks, the communal finance department was responsible for personnel management, human resources, the calculation of salaries, the sending of invoices. Today, there is a new entity for which there is a need to re-create administrative services. In many cases, administrative officers who were partially responsible for firefighters in the communes will not be transferred. There is a shortage of staff in logistics and administrative matters. Is this not also an additional cost of reform? You see where I'm going with calculating the extra costs. Are we not going to have to agree on what the extra cost of this reform really is? It is said that the communes must no longer finance the areas until the time when we reach 50/50. So, what are we talking about? What extra cost? I think that at some point we will still have to agree on this. You answered some of the questions that had been tabled, but not always very precisely. I'm going back to valuing volunteer firefighters. I share your comment on their importance. In fact, I believe that they are the majority in our bodies, both in Wallonia and Flanders, and perhaps even more so in Flanders, according to my information. I hear a lot of anxiety. I believe that these volunteer firefighters should not be forgotten in our reform. It's really important today; it's a pivotal moment for them. I will take up the terms of my question on the difficulties encountered in recruitment. Today it seems that promotions are blocked, especially for our volunteers. As we know, their careers have been reviewed. You spoke about your draft royal decree on firefighter training, which is currently subject to consultation. In its agreement, the government committed to initiatives to allow volunteer firefighters to continue to combine volunteer firefighter activity, a main occupation, family life and social life outside the fire department. This applies, for example, to training requirements. I would still like you to be a little more specific about training. You said that the fire training, the basic fire training, must be serious. There can be no firefighters with different qualifications in the field, whether they are volunteers or professionals. On the other hand, if we impose an assuming level of training for volunteers, there may be a problem with the recruitment of volunteers. Do you integrate this issue into your thinking? According to my information, a consultation took place with all the actors on the ground, during a weekend about two weeks ago. You also undertook to take steps to ensure that the representation of volunteers was guaranteed. You've talked a little bit about it, but I would like you to clarify that, because volunteers feel like they're not represented. Of course, union representatives are mostly professionals. How can we ensure that volunteers are present on the union consultation committees so that they can participate in the decision-making process? What are the first aspects of the reform of firefighter training, and in particular the elements of adaptation for volunteers? What initiatives do you intend to take to value volunteer firefighters as you have committed yourself to? I think for the rest, you answered my other questions. Civil security must remain a priority, including the promotion of volunteer firefighters and the sustainability of the financing of the reform. The safety of citizens also means providing quality relief that can be financed by the municipalities. My colleague Emir Kir asked me to ask his questions. They're a little more technical. If you will, I will ask them when you answer these first questions, since we are part of a general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u17	You have developed some very interesting reflections on topics that we have already discussed. I will come back to the voluntary firefighters and their training. What training is planned for professionals? It is first a basic training, followed by three compulsory modules: evaluation, prevention and training. Is it really useful for volunteers to conduct assessments of other firefighters, develop prevention plans and provide training? I don't think so. If the volunteer wishes to follow these modules, it is of course interesting. On the other hand, it is clear that anyone who wants to become a firefighter must go through basic training. In this regard, a distinction should not be made between a professional and a volunteer. That would be criminal. Consider a fire intervention. Therefore, the three modules are mandatory for professionals, while only one must be included in the training of volunteers. It's very good if they want to go through the other stages, because it means they really want to get involved. We want to motivate them in this direction, but without forcing them to do so. As for the representation of volunteers, it must be effective in the opinion committee of each area. For the accompanying committee, there is an association of volunteers in Flanders: VVB, from Vereniging Vlaamse Brandweervrijwilligers. It doesn't exist in Wallonia. It is therefore difficult for me to answer you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u18	So, we can encourage Walloon and Brussels volunteers to form an association.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u19	Yes. When I visit the areas in Wallonia, I always advise to form an association of volunteers. It would be easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u20	As a minister, should you not set criteria for an association to be recognized?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u21	Yes, we could do it. In any case, Wallonia has no comparable association. For my part, I am prepared to provide for a place for voluntary associations in the accompanying committee. When I go to Wallonia, I behave as a missionary asking volunteers to join forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u22	I will now be the spokesman for Brussels, although I am a Walloon. In the field, implementation is not straightforward at the administrative level. Not later than this morning, in the College and the Council, we discussed the harmonisation of the fee for the removal of wasps nests. In some municipalities, it is zero euro. In others, we pay 25 euros. In the cities, the sum goes up to 150 euros. From now on, the citizens of all these entities will have to pay a single contribution. It will not be easy for the mayors to explain that it was free before, but that it will now have to pay 50 euros. The same service will be provided, but will be more expensive. If we could get a financial overstatement, it wouldn't be bad. On the other hand, in cities, it will be the opposite. There will therefore be a transfer of financing from small municipalities to cities. This may not be your business, but it is a fact!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u23	It is a competence of the zones to be able to make a decision on this matter. They are not obliged to choose the highest or lowest price. They must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u24	There's a whole series of things. There's the lifting of people, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u25	All services not provided for in the Royal Decree must be free of charge. We can put a price on it, it's a way to manage things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u26	Mr President, I will take up the concerns of my colleague Emir Kir. Since 2 January, the Brussels-Capital Region Fire and Emergency Medical Service has been applying new billing rules for certain services. Indeed, the Decree of 19 November 2014 of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region concerning the charges to be levied in return for the services rendered by the fire and emergency medical aid service of the Brussels-Capital Region states that: "With regard to interventions in the Brussels-Capital Region, without prejudice to Article 2a/2 § 2 of the Law of 31 December 1963 on civil protection, as well as the possibility of appeal by the person liable to the person responsible on the basis of the common law, the person liable for the charges fixed under this Order is: 1. the public authority managing the road concerned or the police area concerned if the intervention is carried out at the request of a police service; 2. the owner of the private place in which the intervention takes place or its operator if that place is accessible to the public. In the case of co-ownership, the fee is payable by the co-ownership for an intervention in common spaces, by the owner of the property concerned for an intervention in private spaces. 3. The person who had in his custody the domestic animal that requires an intervention or, failing that, the owner of the intervention. 4. In the absence of a debtor referred to in the preceding points, the person who requested the intervention." In 2007, the federal government drew up a list of eight interventions that must always be free of charge. These include firefighting missions, international civil protection missions (with the exception of pollution control) and response to false alerts. The new remuneration rules apply to all other services performed by the SIAMU, both in and outside the Brussels-Capital Region. Nevertheless, I fear the additional cost of this decree for the municipalities. It discharges the Region in the case, very often, where the police use firefighters, even on a regional route. In addition, the possibility of charging the rating to the person calling NPP 100 will have a negative effect as individuals will hesitate to call, even if necessary. Mr Minister, on the basis of this information, does the federal government intend to compensate the municipalities? If so, how much? Could you consider expanding the list of free interventions by including Chapters 2 and 3 of the Order?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u27	Mr. Thiébaut, the federal government's jurisdiction is to determine the relief services' response that can be recovered from their recipient. It has fulfilled this obligation by adapting the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 determining the missions of the relief services which can be billed and those which are free of charge. It is within the competence of the emergency service organiser authority (common, intercommunal, in the case of fire services, Brussels-Capital Region or emergency zone) to establish among the tasks which may be invoiced, the list of missions which give rise to invoicing and the related tariff. It is therefore the areas that must assume their responsibilities. In response to Mr Kir's second question, I would honestly say that an expansion of the list of free missions is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u28	Minister, thank you for your introductory statement, which has been relatively concrete. We see that this is a problem that concerns you and which you already know a little about, as a former president of a rescue zone. This is felt in the debate and I find it particularly interesting. My colleague has already addressed a number of issues and many questions need to be asked in this area. You have answered the two questions I have asked on the whole. You mentioned the problem of the famous computer software that allows the departures of men from the fire, calculated by center 100. The situation is very problematic because, on the ground, abnormally long response times have been observed regularly. How long do you think you can deal with this problem, which I think is all the more important because it creates tensions between the areas in the course of the interventions? You have referred to the problem of agreements between zones which are not always very clear and, in any case, established in this kind of dispute. Having said that, I am President of an area and I am facing difficulties in implementing this reform, the approximation of which has yet to be amended in a number of ways. We have decided to postpone the passage to the zone until 1 July next. In view of the questions that arise, I consider this to be a rather wise decision. As has been mentioned by my colleague, a number of communes (mainly protected communes) will have to triple or even quadruple their contribution to the costs of fire services. There is a feeling that the plough has been put before the oxen and, as you have said, that a number of things have not been planned, particularly with regard to the volunteers who are forgotten about this reform. Today, we know very well that, given the cost and the extra cost of the reform, tomorrow we will need volunteers to maintain reasonable costs for the municipalities in terms of fire services. I am also the mayor of a small town with a fire department. I know how much it costs, in terms of percentage, to be a town centre. This is a huge budget. If we professionalize all the fire services tomorrow, we won't make it. I therefore fully agree with you, as do my colleague Mr Thiébaut. We really need to look at the status of volunteers so that they can remain volunteers. You have also referred to a problem that also challenges us, namely that of civil protection. For example, the grating is no longer covered by the latter. Do the areas have to equip themselves with grating trucks? There are a lot of concrete questions on the ground that we will have to answer. I will not dwell on the matter any more. I imagine that we will still have the opportunity to work a lot on this. I will come back to you later to ask you many questions with a view to trying, on the basis of collective reflection taking into account the situation on the ground, to find the best possible adaptation of this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u29	Thank you for this reflection that I fully share. I think that the formula applied to this committee, which is to exchange ideas and experiences that you live in your areas and that have not yet been considered in the context of the proposed solutions, is very interesting. As I said, I am open to this idea, I want to solve the problems. I fully agree that if we lose volunteers because of the reform of the fire zones, then we have created a huge problem! That's why I'm on alert and I'm all things day after day. I have a lot of field contacts to appreciate how volunteers feel about this reform. For me, it's a key element!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u30	If you allow me, Mr President, in this context, and to meet with many firemen, whether volunteers or firefighters, it is a bit of a feeling that, while it is true that officers are generally satisfied with the changes in the reform, professional firefighters, too, feel that it has not always been done for them either. I think that all this should be mentioned at some point, as well as the consideration of each other. We know very well that there are tensions between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. In the reform of training, this is something that must really be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u31	So you are no longer intervening on the second question in the present state of affairs? There's a second one that was programmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u32	The questions I put together, I found an answer to them in the minister's arguments, even though it was not specific enough in relation to the problem of the software. Now, we're still waiting for it to progress, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u33	There will be other opportunities to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u34	(...) I shall read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u35	Mr Minister, I had tabled a question concerning the transfer of vehicles from the municipality to the fire zone. You replied. I would have preferred another answer, but so be it. I have an additional question after your explanation. It's very interesting that we've been brought together. In your opinion, the promotion of staff requires 180 hours of training. If no one is eligible, an exception can be made for volunteers. Are you looking for a volunteer if no one in the entire area is eligible, or if no one in the fire station is eligible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u36	Organisationally, there is no longer any mention of fire stations. The zone is the employer. The zone determines how the forces are deployed. We need to look at this at zone level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u37	So it is possible that a corporal is needed on one side of the zone and that someone on the other side has sufficient training hours, so that no one can be recruited in the first post?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u38	If the shift does not succeed, for example because the person concerned does not want to drive this far for some reason, the zoning council can make an exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u40	Inquiry No. 24 by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive statement, which shows that a great deal of work has already been done, but above all that a great deal of work remains to be done. I'm glad you didn't answer all the detailed questions. That gives me the opportunity to intervene. I submitted a specific question about the hydrants. The water resources for fire extinguishing are currently a municipal authority according to the 1976 ministerial circular. Such competence shall be exercised by the technical services of the municipality or by the firefighters themselves. Social economy companies or water companies are also often involved. The question now arises whose responsibility that will be from now on. Is it still the responsibility of the municipality? Will it be the responsibility of the zone? I believe that some clarification is welcome here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u42	The answer to this can be brief and clear. The municipalities have remained competent for the hydrants. The municipalities are therefore also responsible for the control and maintenance of the hydrants and for the financial burden associated with them. However, within the framework of pro-action and prevention, the zone will have to ensure that it has the necessary plans indicating the hydrants. The interaction that previously took place between the municipality and the fire department must therefore continue. There must be a transfer of information between the municipalities and the zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation of the situation. This, as you said, is a very loaded file. I have been on the field of work on a regular basis, and you too, as a local director in your previous life, are well aware of and still are the challenges of fire reform. You have raised a lot of issues, and you mentioned KBBRs and conversion letters that will be amended, as well as new KBBRs and conversion letters. The question is where we want to go with the fire department, what the point is. All the amendments that you propose and for which one is in some cases a requesting party, will they result in the principles you have mentioned at the outset being respected? In addition, this will result in equal treatment. Firefighters, wherever they live, must all receive the same training in Brasschaat, Limburg or Hainaut and have the same qualifications for a certain degree. In this sense, it should also be possible to organise this mobility in the long term. Now there are major problems with, for example, a person moving from one part of the country to another, and actually cannot be addressed anymore. There is a lot to say for police reform, but what I have been enjoying for two years is internal mobility. People get opportunities to gain experience in other locations and then go to another region. In that sense, this seems to me to be an enormous added value. I'm active in one of those many zones. The federal government, and especially the FPS Home Affairs, should respond with the necessary pragmatism and support to the relief areas. Let me give you a practical example. We were asked to draw up rules of procedure. It would have been easier if Brussels had proposed rules of procedure. All aid areas have now drawn up their own rules of procedure and sent them to Brussels. The department is now starting to check all this and make comments. The result is that everything needs to be adjusted. I have another example from my province. There are 800 000 of us. We have negotiated with the trade unions in our three aid zones. We were all on the same page, including the system of fees, and we had reached an agreement. Suddenly, after three months, Brussels said it was impossible. That makes it annoying on the field. I'll come to my questions. In view of the many challenges that remain to be met by KBBRs and mailing letters, I would like to ask that the federal government show the necessary pragmatism in relation to the aid areas. Will there be a delay? How will the inspection react if it does not get around in time? You yourself indicated that there would be a delay, for example for the Royal Decree on training. It's on its way. That is all well and good, and good for us, because we need to make a staff plan. We can't, as long as we don't have the KB on training. Everything's a little linked to everything. The deadline was 1 January 2015. Of the 28, a number of them got in. The other six are for the next few months. Another question concerns the administrative status of operational staff and, in particular, the adapted staff relations. You are currently preparing for it. I don't know if it's true, but there would be no operational relations in it anymore. This has two consequences in my area: all staff over the age of 50 or 55, whom we have to give some form of re-employment, must be replaced in order to maintain the same operational capacity, but also the number of possible re-employment functions in non-operational tasks must be adjusted. The possibilities for this are rather limited. The main consequence of this is that the current contribution to the financing of the end-of-life will be insufficient. Today is the right time to have that debate. Much is still in preparation and there is still a lot to be done. Hence my question as to whether you can limit the list of lighter, adapted relations to non-operational relations and whether there can also be funding for the full non-operational re-employment. Much has already been said about training. I will not go into that further, but I would like to mention something about the accumulation of fire and administrative functions. At the moment, according to the regulations, someone who is a professional firefighter cannot be a voluntary firefighter. That was ruled out. If we read the legislation correctly, it is possible for the administrative forces that work professionally in the fire department today. What is annoying is that such a discrepancy exists between these two groups in the same post. However, we are in favour of a professional firefighter being able to volunteer outside his duty hours, including for administrative staff. That way there can be equality. I understand, however, that the negotiations on this were already under way in the previous legislature and that professional firefighters should not be allowed to volunteer with the firefighters. I also mention the whole story of the 38-hour week. Another question is whether a solution can be found to the strict rules on rounding and payment in the Staff Regulations. As it is arranged today, the door is open to abuse. The rounding rules for volunteer performance hours, as provided for in the financial statute, are certainly acceptable in the context of interventions, but not for planned performance. Why can these benefits not be paid on the basis of an internal agreement or the actual time spent? Then there is the whole debate about the volunteers. You say that you are very much in favour of setting up a consultative council on a sunny level, where volunteers can be given a mouthpiece. But how is this volunteer elected? If the volunteer talks for himself tomorrow in the advisory board pro domo I speak a bit out of experience of the past two years.... it does not work well. Are the volunteers in our country able to organise themselves and come out as a representative body? In the preparatory negotiations with the trade unions for the establishment of our zone, it appeared that all these trade unions also spoke for the volunteers. While I'm saying this, I see your associate shaking no. However, I can testify to that, because I was there, along with among others the mayors Vanvelthoven and Dries. All the unions, regardless of color and angle, made a plea about different items for the volunteers. I have no problem with the volunteer being represented tomorrow, but that should be done in a representative manner. A volunteer cannot sit in the umpteenth advisory body à la tête du client. I'm sorry, your time is limited, but so is ours. We do not want to create yet another consultative body if the volunteers are not represented in it. Do you have any idea how we can organise that? Should that come from below, or should the government impose it from above? Can you, as a minister, put forward a proposal for this large group? The volunteers are many and in many zones they are indispensable to provide the service and service to our people. There is also a problem with the welfare allowances of the volunteers. The statute does not exclude them, quite the contrary. However, the interpretation now is that we have a single statute and that we must do the same everywhere. This means that many volunteers today remain in an old statute and fall back on those old rules of fixed fees for watchkeeping services which, in some cases, I believe are quite lucrative. This in turn leads to a very great inequality within the zone, between the posts. People don't want to go through any more because then they have to change to the new financial statute. These are start-up problems that we are dealing with now, and the question is how we deal with them. Are there any answers to be formulated? Quite recently, there was a study that, if you ask me, was quite confrontational. It hasn't been discussed here yet, the numbers on the cancer risk for firefighters...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u44	This was discussed extensively at the last committee meeting. We discussed the problem of clothing and cancer in detail at the last committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u45	Excuse me, I missed that. My question is how extra financial investment can be made. It would be ideal to have two equipment, one for the control of wasps and the other to put out fires. That's how I understood it from the study material. I know you have budgetary constraints, but to what extent is there any possibility of providing additional resources on this particular point? When you were just Minister, we had a very interesting exchange of views on the various items on the Interior. For example, the funding of fire-fighting schools is still unclear. At present, this is provincially regulated but many firefighters are in financial difficulties. What changes do you foresee for yourself? You have already indicated that you are thinking of moving from five levels of education to three, including for the police in our country. Has there been any progress? To what extent do you provide further support from the Federal Knowledge Centre for the development of the training modules? The urgent medical treatment was discussed extensively by you. In a previous life I was mainly engaged in non-urgent transport. It's all about sick transport, so I look forward to the discussions and the final report by the end of this year. The question is what agreements can now be made on provisional fees in order to keep it all affordable. How it is arranged in Wallonia, I do not know, but we see that in Flanders a lot of municipalities really reject the transport of sick people. To speak for myself, we are fortunate to have a small regional hospital. We finance the hospital directly with the municipalities, in order to be able to call on an emergency nurse every time there is being pulled out. There is the PIT and there is the MUG, but in what way can we ensure that the service and services, important in the context of health, are regulated today for everyone in our country, wherever they are? Surely it is not possible to be disadvantaged in certain regions because of decisions taken by municipalities? We may not have to make that public, but at the moment that is the case. The final point concerns educational leave, a regional matter. The question is to respond to the specific circumstances of the volunteers that we consider so crucial. We think they're all important in the whole firefighter story. To what extent is there a possibility of educational leave for the training of firefighters? As has already been said, this is a regional competence. To what extent do you, as a federal minister, have contact with the regional governments about this? Do you have any idea what's going on in this file? Is there any willingness, for Flanders at Minister Muyters, to develop this further at regional level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u46	It would have been more interesting if you had forwarded those questions in advance. Then we could have given you a more correct answer. They were often detailed. I can't answer that right now. I'll send them to you. I'll go over your list. The problem you raise of specific and general supervision is correct. The provincial and federal authorities supervise. We have decided to bring it closer together. Thus, things that pass through at provincial level are not stopped at federal level. We will make that correction. I asked the inspection to inspect, especially at the start-up of the zone, as a consultant rather than as an on-the-finger ticker. Everyone has an interest in ensuring that this reform, with all its proposals and counter-features, is carried out as well and as badly as possible on the ground and that the benefits are reaped. In that sense, it makes no sense to send out an inspection as a bogeyman. Before the reform is completed, the inspection should rather provide assistance rather than sanction. I don't think I'm gonna do a preliminaries on your end-of-life questions. The KB is in preparation. The consultations are in progress. We hear your meaningful comments and will take them with us in the treatment of the end-of-life story. You say that we understand the rounding rules for interventions, but that they cannot be paid for pre-programmed performance. We'll get you that answer. As regards the representativeness of the volunteers, we want to create an advisory council at zone level, as used to exist in the corps at municipal level. All firefighters, volunteers and professionals were invited to that advisory board. One can do that on a sunny level, but what is the point? A representative of every corps will have to go to that advisory board. This will be accompanied by a form of election. So one is just as representative as you are of Saint-Truiden and surroundings. You've been mandated by the voters to sit here. We want to set up a similar model for the Advisory Council. It will also be possible to raise the waiting fee from one hour to two hours. That will be entered in the recovery decree. On the subject of clothing, Mr Demon, together with Mrs Temmerman, called the bell at the previous committee meeting in response to a number of worrying studies. I said that in future zones will be able to decide to devote the subsidy for the purchase of rolling stock to the purchase of customised clothes. In this way, we also take responsibility for this. The debate on the schools has nothing to do with the fire department reform. Those questions must therefore be put separately. I can only say that my predecessors have not considered the issue of urgent medical aid. Now we have the consequences. Now asking me to do things quickly, which we may regret afterwards, is not the way I want to work. We, together with Health, have taken the initiative to look at the problem. In the meantime, I have asked the zones to manage matters as a good family father, pending a solution, both with regard to the deployment and financing of urgent medical assistance. It is true that educational leave is included in the government agreement, as an example to make it accessible to the volunteers. Contacts have been established with the Flemish Region. In the near future, contacts will also be established with the other two regions, since it is indeed a competence of the Regions. In the Flemish Region there is a lot of willingness and goodwill to go along with it. We will contact the other two regions in the near future, because it seems to me to be an important element in making training for the volunteers more accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u47	Minister, I will be happy to ask you a question about fire-fighting schools. The funding of fire-fighting schools is, if I am not mistaken, in the RB of the training programmes. That is why I mentioned it here in the context of our exchange of views on the fire department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u48	Minister, my speech will be very short and it is rather a reflection rather than a question, since you have already answered a great deal. I asked you a question about the royal decree on 11 February and you made very clear commitments about the diligence you were going to give to this case. Today we are almost at the end of the process after consultation, and we can therefore be pleased that this order is moving forward. In its time, I had stressed the need to take into account the combination of work and family life. This was one of the things you had drawn much attention to. I am therefore pleased that this dossier is progressing. A second reflection remains pending in relation to your answers. This is not a challenge, but although there have been no savings from the federal government on this part, additional costs arise as a result of the implementation of the reform. Funding as planned at the federal level, with a reinforcement of the provinces, particularly the province of Liège, will be quickly exceeded. I know that you need to ask a lot of resources for budgetary adjustment in other cases. In the context of terrorism, it is a commitment that you have made in particular with regard to the police. Do you intend to say that federal funding is what it is and not to change it? Do you intend to ask for additional means? Indeed, the reform entails a whole series of complementary costs which arise as they arise. I repeat, I know that the resources have been provided by the previous Minister of the Interior. These means were therefore projected at a time when one was more in theory than in practice. I would therefore like to know whether, in the context of the budgetary adjustment, you are going to ask for additional resources for these items.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u49	I share your reflection in the first part of your speech. Your specific question deserves a specific answer. During the budgetary control in the coming weeks, I do not intend to increase the appropriations. Nevertheless, this reform needs to be assessed on an ongoing basis. Thus, it is possible to increase the endowments, but it can also be seen whether a small change in the law or in a royal decree entails such a high cost. Therefore, in our assessment, it is necessary to consider whether the changes actually result in the expected cost. I am prepared to examine how, by a small change in a circular or royal decree, costs can be avoided for the areas. For the time being, as part of the overall fiscal year, which is not a simple one, I have not requested any additional funding for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u50	Indeed, if there are shifts, they will be welcome in my opinion. I believe that more funding will not be avoided, despite these slippages and a possible better allocation of additional amounts depending on the reality of the field. You're a local agent, too. You know that the cost of police reform, which was to be neutral for the communal authorities, was not. Significant security savings have been projected for the police, while additional missions have been requested from the police, in particular with regard to terrorism. I therefore believe that we will not escape a reflection on complementary means. Let us remember, even if it seems funny today, that the law provides for a 50/50 distribution. I know that sometimes you don't care about the laws, but the principle is still there. I don't know if one day we can move towards this distribution. For the moment we are not there, for a whole series of good reasons. I am not throwing a stone at you, but I think that we will not escape additional resources for the security services in a forthcoming fiscal year because the municipalities will soon be strangled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u51	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Éric Thiébaut and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Eric Thiébaut and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Grand Cities and the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government 1. to stop as soon as possible the realistic timetable for the reform of the fire services announced in the government declaration; 2. to produce as soon as possible the orders necessary to ensure that volunteer firefighters can continue to combine their voluntary activities with a main occupation, family life and social life outside the fire department; 3. to provide the necessary guarantees for the representation of volunteers from all regions in the consultation bodies in order to give them an important place within the services; 4. In accordance with the Government's declaration, continue efforts to finance the reform, in particular in order to achieve the 50/50 allocation key on which the previous Government had committed itself; 5. to put in place without delay a monitoring tool to clearly identify the additional costs of the reform. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Éric Thiébaut and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Éric Thiébaut and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of Great Cities and the Government of the Buildings, asks the government 1. to establish as soon as possible the "realistic calendar" for the reform of the fire department, as set out in the Government Declaration; 2. to issue the necessary decisions as soon as possible so that fire volunteers can continue to combine their activities in a fire department with their main occupation, family life and social life outside those services; 3. provide the necessary guarantees to ensure that fire volunteers from each of the regions are represented in the consultation bodies, thereby giving them the right place in the fire department; 4. continue efforts to finance the reform, in line with the Government's declaration, in order to achieve in particular the 50/50 distribution envisaged by the previous government; 5. to introduce without delay a monitoring tool to clearly identify the additional costs of the reform. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Katja Gabriëls, Ms Veerle Heeren and Ms Kattrin Jadin and Mr Peter Buysrogge. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Katja Gabriels, Veerle Heeren and Kattrin Jadin and by Mr Peter Buysrogge. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Let me remind you that it is planned to complete our work at 6 p.m. As Mrs Matz pointed out, the agenda is still quite busy. We will therefore have to interrupt it. It should also be noted that the attached questions Nos. 2276 by Mr Demon and 2458 by Mrs Temmerman are transformed into written questions. Question No 2455 by Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u52	Minister, in view of the security measures taken under alert level 3 in force until Tuesday, it is worrying that some police officials have reported in the press that police officers have been exhausted and that the number of burnouts has increased to the police. The decision has just been made to move to level 2+ with enhanced protection, the period still remains extremely sensitive. It is appealing to read such words as "we can still hold a few days or a few weeks, but exhaustion will cause a blurring of the state of watchfulness and vigilance". Of course, I cannot imagine for a moment that these speeches influenced the OCAM in its classification. I know that it is essential that every effort be made to ensure that our police capacity and the security of the country's public spaces and sensitive infrastructure are commensurate with the necessary vigilance. I also know that the government is doing this with responsibility, but external communication must be up to the government's actions. Minister, have you had the numbers of psychological help and psychosocial help in the police since January 1, 2015? In comparison to the last two years, can you tell us whether the number of hours each police officer is currently providing actually meets the standards of police service in the field? What initiatives have you taken to reassure the direction of the areas regarding the rotation and rotation of men in the field? Have directives been communicated to the chiefs of corps and police unions so that everyone can plan and set the work in practice and operationally as part of the 2+ alert level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u53	Mr Pivin, with regard to your first two questions, given the short period of time, I did not have time to gather all the figures you asked for. Could you ask me a written question about this? With respect to your other issues, it is clear that the level 3 threat situation requires special efforts by the security services and the police. We are all aware of that. Although the level of threat has been reviewed in the meantime, Level 3 measures remain applicable for a range of locations. This threat situation requires exceptional measures and I am aware of the workload that this represents. I thank our services for the tremendous efforts they make every day. It is in this spirit that the army is called upon, as part of a level 3 threat. This military engagement is a real support for our police officers, who can focus on other tasks. The military is responsible for stable protection tasks. Whenever the level of threat increases or is prolonged, instructions left to the heads of corps have been sent to them by the Crisis Centre. It is their responsibility to organize their services, paying particular attention to the well-being of staff. We are all aware that the police and security services need more resources. I'm totally convinced of that. That is why I will defend the financing of these services during budgetary control in the coming weeks. Security is a priority, we must give ourselves the means to do so. Finally, please be aware that I have made the decision to allow the postponement of police leave in 2014 until the end of May 2015, i.e. an extension of two months from the statutory social standards. Normally, the police should have taken their leave before the end of March, but I have extended this period until the end of May. If necessary, I will extend these deadlines further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u54	Minister, that's a good signal. I believe that we must take the necessary steps not to allow irresponsible speeches. These statements are made during a period of budgetary negotiations and are therefore not innocent. I will ask you further questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u55	Question No 2458 by Mrs Karin Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u56	Deputy Prime Minister, on February 6, the Minister-President of the Brussels Region organized an information briefing on the problem of radicalism in the Brussels Region as part of the coordination and prevention of radicalism set up by the Region in support of the 19 Brussels municipalities. Among the priorities announced: "Additional means will have to be made available to support specialized services, but also to support and relieve our communities. This requires additional resources for our local police and more support from the federal police to the administrative authorities." In concrete terms, a structure around two axes of the system for the prevention of radicalism will be developed: in the direction of local actors through training and awareness-raising modules for communal agents, peacekeepers, as well as street or police educators. Mainly for police officers, an expansion of the CoPPra training given in basic training but also continued within the ERIP (Regional and Intercommunal Police School). In addition, this will also result in training and raising young people's awareness of a socio-historical, critical and backward approach to their own history. This training is to be noted in an approach of historical re-appropriation and positive construction of its identity. Support for families, young people or third parties concerned: this is essential and responds to a social emergency. The first priority is to organise a contact point to allow psychosocial support through local structures. Work is already under way to identify the partners. Moreover, following the numerous consultations carried out over the last few months and even before the dramatic events of the beginning of the year, the Region undertakes eight concrete actions: - the establishment of a structured network of contacts / persons relaying to the various levels of power; - the provision in a structured way of a pool of resource persons, in order to better understand the phenomenon and to act with the appropriate tools; - the initiation, support and development of awareness-raising or training activities; - informing the various partners of existing initiatives at regional and beyond level, with the aim of disseminating Belgian or foreign good practices; - the organisation of an information and assistance point for the support of young people, parents or third parties; - the relay for requests made by the municipalities to the political and judicial authorities; - the development of a network of external partners to monitor individual situations; - the search for federal, European and international support for recognized sources of expertise and project financing. In this regard, the government agreement states: "Given the importance of a preventive component in the overall approach to radicalism and violent jihadism, the federal government will initiate a consultation with federated entities and local governments that have important levers in this regard. This consultation should examine whether and if so, what social benefits may be linked to participation in deradicalisation programmes." On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions: what measures have you put in place as Minister of the Interior? At the local level, which municipalities will benefit from the federal budget allocated to prevention? What amounts will be allocated per municipality and on the basis of what criteria? What dialogue do your services have with those at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u57	Mr Kir, prevention is an integral part of the government agreement as part of the overall approach to radicalism. You will also have seen the importance of the preventive component in my policy brief. In addition to the 12 measures the federal government took on January 16 in the fight against terrorism, we will continue to strengthen the preventive component. In particular, you highlight the importance of federated entities and local administrations, and I can only confirm the importance of effective coordination. The Directorate-General for Security and Prevention, Radicalism Unit, has organized, among other things, a coordination meeting last Friday with the cities and municipalities that receive an allocation as part of the prevention of radicalism, as well as the cities and municipalities that have taken up radicalism as a phenomenon in their strategic plan 2014-2017. For your perfect information, as far as the Brussels Region is concerned, the following municipalities have not put the prevention of radicalism in their strategic plan: Auderghem, Etterbeek, Evere, Forest, Jette, Koekelberg, Saint-Gilles, Saint-Josse, Uccle, Watermael-Boitsfort, Woluwe-Saint-Lambert. With regard to the federated entities, the Directorate-General for Security and Prevention will soon meet with the "radicalism" focal points of the various federated entities. The Walloon Region and the French Community having designated a reference "radicalism" a few weeks ago, as well as the Flemish Community, we are waiting for the designation of a reference "radicalism" for the Brussels Region. As far as your second question is concerned, I refer to the Royal Decree of 11 March 2014 on the granting of a social and security contract allowance for municipalities, former security and social contracts, in the context of the implementation of a local security and prevention policy for 2014 which defines the following: additional financial assistance of EUR 400 000 is granted for the financing of projects in the framework of the prevention of violent radicalisation in the municipalities of Anderlecht, Antwerp, Brussels, Maasek, Malines, Liège, Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Schaerbeek, Verviers and Vilvorde. Within this framework, financial assistance of EUR 40 000 is allocated to each of the municipalities concerned by the financing of a project to prevent violent radicalisation. The Royal Decree of 2015 on the granting of a social and security contract allowance to municipalities is being prepared. As already stated, I cannot answer your question today because the royal decree is being prepared. At the international level, you saw the importance of last week's meeting in Washington. At European level, various meetings and meetings are organised on radicalism and terrorism. Our services are associated with it and I also participate in the various JHAs (Justice and Home Affairs) at European level, during which the fight against radicalism or terrorism is at the forefront of the discussions. I can tell you that tomorrow morning there is a new meeting of the JHA European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am well aware of the work done at European and international level. You are right to say that many initiatives have been taken and that they will be pursued. You talked about the twelve federal government measures, which you continue to ensure. Finally, with regard to the question of what you intend to do about prevention, you are starting from an initiative taken by the previous government which was to set up a mechanism to combat radicalism at the preventive level with an envelope of €400,000. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in my commune, Saint-Josse, as in others, we wanted to avoid wearing the hat of radicalism, but we did not give up carrying out concrete actions to combat radicalism. I think that we are several mayors, in Brussels, as in Wallonia and Flanders, to be worried about arrogating ourselves, of having a reference "radicalism". Why? When we discussed with experts from the OCAM, the Federal Police or the Public Prosecutor's Office, we realized that there were three reasons for accelerating the process of engagement towards jihadism: holidays (large holidays), some religious holidays and overmediatization. I would therefore like to ask you to see if it is not possible to increase the budgets for prevention. I have another question that will come at another time. It concerns the politics of large cities. I would like to tell you that if in communes like mine, living together and social cohesion hold today, it is thanks to a whole series of policies but also to the policies that you are carrying out today at the level of the interior, with prevention. In relation to radicalism, it is not because we have not introduced a dossier of radicalism that we do nothing about it. I think we really need federal support. Minister, I wanted to make you aware of this and I will come back to you in a forthcoming inquiry into the issue of the guardians of the peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, on 11 February 2014 the Act of 10 April 2014 amending the organic law on the control of the police and intelligence services and of the OCAM was finally published in the Belgian Moniteur. This text aims at the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding between the Inspectorate-General and the P Committee, the main objective of which is to promote synergies and thus the effectiveness of these two services. This is essentially an anchor in the Organic Law of a provision introduced in the Law on Optimization of Police Services. It is not, strictly speaking, a novelty. But it is not pointless to take advantage of this opportunity to come back to the subject. Indeed, although this text is supposed to have entered into force on 1 April 2014, I am not sure that such a protocol submitted for approval by the Ministers of the Interior and Justice and the Parliamentary Monitoring Committee of Committee P has been concluded to date. Perhaps you can enlighten me on this point? Is there a memorandum of understanding or not at the moment we are talking? On the other hand, it is also an opportunity to question your intentions regarding the future of these two structures. This memorandum of understanding is, in my view, a first step towards a more precise redefinition of the competences of each of these bodies which sometimes give the impression of duplicating, an impression which would ignore a fundamental difference, to name but one, namely the independence of the P Committee which works under the control of this Parliament. In this context, how do you envisage the future of the Inspectorate General and the strengthening of Committee P, including its ability to monitor its investigation service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u60	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the law of 26 March 2014 on measures to optimize the police services published on 31 March already amended, in its article 36, the law of 15 May 2007 on the General Inspectorate by providing for the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between the Inspectorate General and the Committee P. Notwithstanding the fact that the Organic Law on Police and OCAM Supervision had not been amended, initial contacts were held between the two supervisory bodies, the General Inspectorate and Committee P, with a view to preparing a new memorandum of understanding allowing, beyond what already existed in the area of information exchange and coordination between the two supervisory bodies, to optimize synergy between them, to increase their efficiency and to clarify their modalities of collaboration. These contacts have provided opportunities for improvement. As a first step, I intend to examine them and, if necessary, to supplement them at my level, in order to ensure that they sufficiently meet the wishes of greater synergy, efficiency and collaboration expressed and confirmed by the legislator in the second publication to which you refer. It is also essential that the security landscape be taken into account as it emerges at the end of the reflection on the key tasks of the police currently under way. Indeed, if certain tasks were no longer to be assigned to the police, it is clear that the control or inspection mechanism for them must be reassessed, as it is clear that effective control priorities and guarantees must be organised for the truly key tasks of the police. As for the fundamental difference between these two structures, I place it less than you at the level of their independence. In my view, this fundamental difference is clearly at the level of the power on which they depend and which directs them, finances them, controls them and wishes to continue to do so. In the case of Committee P, this is clearly the supervisory body made available to Parliament, to the legislator, and the Inspectorate is the supervisory body available to the executive, in particular to the Minister of Justice and myself, when it comes to monitoring and improving the functioning of the police. The issue of the control capacity of Committee P over its investigative department is not within my jurisdiction. On the other hand, ensuring that the synergy between the two structures, the Inspectorate-General and the P Committee, is maximized by increasing its efficiency and clarifying the arrangements for collaboration through a memorandum of understanding is clearly my responsibility and also meets my full conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. That is why I asked you, since this is a matter for you. If I understand correctly, the Memorandum of Understanding must be signed by the AIG and Committee P. They have begun to discuss it. Before doing so, they will first submit their copy to the Minister of the Interior, who is in no hurry as he redefines the police landscape. Depending on the place to be given to each body tomorrow, these agreements may prove useless. We have a few months ahead of us. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is still the organisation of the security of our citizens. I therefore appeal to your vigilance. You have to go beyond intentions to achieve something tangible. In the current state of legislation, it is an obligation that you will have to face at some point in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u62	Question No 2518 by Mr Franky Demon is postponed. Question No 2525 by Mr Raf Terwingen was withdrawn in accordance with Rule 127(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Question No 2552 by Mr Franky Demon is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u63	Mr President, Minister, it is indeed about recruitment and selection in the federal police. You may also have read the Court of Auditors' report on recruitment and selection with the federal police. This shows that recruitment in operational services is proceeding fairly well, but that the file on secondment and, in particular, the long-term duration of such secondment brings uncertainty and budgetary consequences. In selecting the CaLog staff, the Court of Auditors also identifies major problems. According to the Court of Auditors, this selection is below-quality. The power of the various recruitment services leads to numerous infringements and also prevents efficient management of selections. In its conclusion, the Court of Auditors refers inter alia to the existence of the very complex regulations relating to recruitment and selection. In addition, it would be contrary to Article 184 of the Constitution, where the legislator is entitled to regulate the essential elements of the police status, whereas in that the king has assumed certain powers without the authorisation of the legislator. It concerns, for example, the new method of recruitment but also the replacement of comparative selection procedures for chief inspectors by a procedure whereby the appointing authority selects candidates from a list of suitable persons. In particular, according to the Court of Auditors, the infringements of the selection of the CaLog staff are far more far-reaching. There are phony selections, people recruited as unfit and, moreover, different laws, such as language laws, are broken or are not complied with. What steps can or will you take to make existing regulations in accordance with constitutional requirements? Do you yourself have an overview of the elements which are now imposed by the legislation but which in principle belong to the powers of the legislator? What measures do you think you can take for the CaLog staff to centralise and monitor procedures with a view to achieving greater efficiency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u64	Mr President, I will be extremely quick, since my colleague has developed her question well. Minister, the problems arise mainly in terms of administrative and logistical framework. In fact, more than 10 per cent of the files examined did not identify the reason why the candidate had been recruited - lack of comparison, among other things. The Court of Auditors considers that these irregularities are largely due to the extreme fragmentation and decentralisation of selections. What follow-up will you give to the Court of Auditors' report? What initiatives will you take to address the challenges? Are you considering, as suggested by the Court, extending the number of selection experts responsible for the personality test to recruit operational staff? What steps will you take to ensure better coordination and centralization of selection procedures? What measures will be taken to ensure compliance with the legislation on the use of languages? Have recruitments been invalidated on this basis? If so, how many and for what reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u65	As Question No 2598 by Mr Koenraad Degroote was not relevant, it was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u66	Mr President, I agree with my colleague Vanessa Matz. Minister, the report, while giving a rather positive assessment of the recruitment of operational officers, does, however, make significant criticisms on several points. It highlights the cumbersome procedures and the risk of bias of subjectivity in the personality test. It is also very critical of the quality and compliance of the staff of the administrative and logistical framework. Can you, minister, inform me of the action you intend to take on this report? What concrete measures will you take to correct the weaknesses identified by the Court of Auditors, and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for waiting for me. I'm trying to combine all the committees. Probably I'll say the same thing I've been told for, for which I apologize. So I'll be brief. The Court of Auditors has published a report which raises a number of problems with regard to selection procedures. I shall confine myself to the questions. What conclusions do you draw from the Court of Auditors' report? What measures will you take to respond to the comments and concerns of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u68	Mr President, the audit of the Court of Auditors drew attention to the accuracy of police selection procedures, but, as you have all pointed out, it also highlighted some points of improvement and made some recommendations. Some of these recommendations are already being implemented or are about to be implemented. Others will be dealt with as a matter of priority. In this context, we are explaining the following concrete measures, which respond to the recommendations and comments made. Firstly, the Court of Auditors states that the use of long-term secondments distorts the real needs of staff and resources. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee shares this view and has therefore recently adopted measures to limit, in the long term, the duration of such secondments and the number of seconded persons from the general reserve. The problem is therefore recognised and the measures have been adopted within the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. In order to improve the consistency of the management of administrative and logistical framework (CALOG) staff engagement procedures, the federal police plan to take a dual approach. On the one hand, prior to the selection process of the CALOG, encourage the use of the standard function description and incorporate generic competency profiles, such as for Ops staff, into regulatory texts. Through the creation of a network of "human resources" managers present in all local and federal entities and a specific training route, the Federal Police intends to improve the professionalisation of its managers, inter alia in the area of selection and motivation of their commitment decision. On the other hand, downstream of this process, make available to managers "human resources" a standard commitment file ensuring compliance with procedures and facilitating control by the employers level. Obviously, the final responsibilities lie with the areas, but we can provide them with documents and processes, as well as regularly bring together the "human resources" officials to examine how the recommendations are implemented in the areas. The Court of Auditors calls for the legislation to be amended so that those who are contracted out for urgent reasons must carry out the same selection and pre-selection tests as the statutory staff, because they can be recruited later. This approach is already being applied in practice, and it was incorporated into the draft law on various provisions, which will soon be submitted to Parliament. Fourthly, the Court of Auditors encourages the continuation of the preliminary analysis of personnel needs, the Persepolis study. To this end, it recommends encouraging local police forces to pass on their raw personnel data. Steps will be taken to ensure that the local police forces communicate the personnel data. Adaptation of the rules, reflection on selection standards and other measures appointed by the Court of Auditors will also be considered in the future. The aim is to consolidate the excellent results achieved in the selection procedure for operational staff, while improving the weaknesses identified by the Court of Auditors in the selection of CALOG staff. With regard to the issue of remedies relating to non-compliance with the legislation on the use of languages, we are not aware of any recruitment procedures that have been invalidated on this basis. An investigation is still going to be conducted, but nothing concrete at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u69	Minister, I am already pleased that some recommendations have been made and that action will therefore be taken by the federal police. I would also like to point out that it is necessary to take account of the remarks made by the Court of Auditors, in particular with regard to the recruitment of CALOG. The Court of Auditors considers that these recruitments are of poor quality; you must therefore pay attention to them in order to guarantee the principle of equal access to the civil service for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u70	Minister, your explanation was sufficient. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u71	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the exchange of information is one of the government's 12 priorities announced last January as a result of counter-terrorism police operations. You have very recently taken the initiative to create a database containing information on Belgian jihadists in order to effectively improve the communication and exchange of information with and to local police. In this way, information will flow more quickly and allow for a better responsiveness of police services in the field. Deputy Prime Minister, according to information in the media, this list will be managed by the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis. Will the OCAM be alone in managing this list? Will access be permanent for local police or will it be conditioned? Will it be a consultative or interactive list? Do you have any idea how long this list will be operational? You mentioned the Belgian participation in the international database of the Terrorism Screening Database. Which other European states are they participating in? What are the impacts of this participation? Will there be an automatic link or update to the Belgian data bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u72	Mr President, Minister, at a press conference following the Washington Summit on the fight against terrorism, you mentioned both a list of 350 to 380 names of potential terrorist fighters and the possibility of integrating this list into a dynamic database, which is more widely accessible to the various police services. This announcement has, as might be expected, generated feedback from the field, in particular with regard to access to the list and its dissemination within the services. However, before even considering whether or not to respond to this request, to what extent or in what way, it seems to me that a series of questions relating to the list itself must arise. The nature and legal status of this list is not clear. Is it a police file? Is it a judicial database? Are we facing intelligence within the meaning of State Security? On the other hand, the very question of how a name enters this list may also arise. Indeed, you have described it as listing potential jihadist fighters. Of course, even in the current circumstances, which require special attention from the original candidates, there is also a need to guard against dramatic consequences for those whose names would be included. What are the criteria for listing a name on this list? What is the competent supervisory body? The P Committee? The R Committee? The COC? In the same vein, we should also shed some light on the criteria for deleting a name from that list. This is an essential aspect of ensuring respect for privacy, because, if I understand correctly, the people concerned have not committed any act that is considered an offence, even if the threat may be real. A fortiori if this is a list that would be intended to be shared with foreign authorities, making it even more difficult to follow up on the information it contains. Finally, the very scope of this list leads me to question the means used to follow up on it. Monitor 380 people must request substantial human and material resources. What about this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u73	Mr President, I do not understand why my question 2655 has not been joined. It is related to the Washington Summit and contains the same questions. My question is more general and not just about the data bank. I don't know if you have to ask her at the same time. It is included in agenda item 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u74	I have no objection to you putting it now. Given the busy schedule, you obviously have more luck if you put it down now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I therefore had the same questions about the database, which is who will be on this list. More generally, at the Washington Summit, you proposed better cooperation between Belgium and the United States to develop counter-speech towards radicalisation. What cooperation do you advocate? What is the status of the European Syria Strategic project that you have already talked about? A concrete commitment by the United States was to accelerate the sharing of information with its allies on the candidates for jihad, as well as its collaboration with Interpol. What are the modalities for this sharing of information? Have any safeguards been provided in terms of privacy protection? Are new bi- or multilateral meetings planned at the end of this Washington Summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u76	Mr President, there is currently a consolidated list of names of Syrian fighters. This list is managed by the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body. The establishment of a dynamic database on foreign fighters is part of the 12 measures taken by the Government to combat terrorism. The practical implementation of this database still needs to be discussed as it has resource impacts. The circular of 25 September 2014 from the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, which complements circular GPI 78, states that the OCAM manages and disseminates to the services the list of residents who are at risk of leaving, have already left towards or have returned from a zone of jihadist conflict. In addition, in application of this circular, the role of the OCAM is further clarified, since it has the responsibility to draw up a list comprising Belgian and/or Belgian returning jihadist combat zone residents. In practice, the list is updated within the local task forces (LTF), which include the State Security, the Intelligence and Security Services, the local and federal police, the OCAM and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Individuals are listed on the basis of information from all services. The list is updated monthly by the MACO on the basis of information collected. Individuals are added and deleted according to the same methodology and periodicity. The list is a tool for analysing the phenomenon. Local police areas will also have access to this database. The aim is for the database to be accessible and interactive, so that all relevant services, including local police areas, can input data into the database. The services concerned are currently working to make it operational as quickly as possible. As regards Belgian participation in the Terrorism Screening Center (TSC), this is the result of the implementation of the Agreement between Belgium and the United States of America on Prevention and Combating Serious Crime (PCSC). This is not directly related to the database of Belgian jihadists in Syria. This agreement concerns the exchange of screening data between our two countries in the context of terrorism. Belgium has access, on request, to the type of data available to the TSC. In return, our country makes its data available to the TSC. These are only data managed by the federal police. No other service in Belgium participates. Any exchange of information shall take place on a voluntary basis and at the initiative of the country in which the information is held. There is no automatic link or update between the TSC or the TS database and the Belgian police databases. We have no view of any other countries with similar agreements with the United States of America. As you may know, we met with the Dutch government last week. They work in the same way as we do at the TSC. They don't have a federal police – it's more complicated at home – but it's also the police that provides the data. The sharing of information with the United States takes place between the police and the Terrorism Screening Center. I would like to see if we could not add other Belgian services, such as State Security. I haven't taken a stand yet. I visited a counter-propaganda center in the United States. This centre was linked to Foreign Affairs. Their system of counter-propaganda is entirely different from the one we aim for. We want to make internal use of it, while their aim is to make counter-propaganda in countries such as Syria and Iraq. We're considering something else. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u77	Minister, you did not answer one of my questions. When a person is on this list, how do you ensure that he or she is no longer on it? How do you proceed? What elements do they make it no longer part of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u78	It is determined by the OCAM on the basis of all the information available to it. As you know, OCAM has its support services (federal police, local police, foreign affairs, state security, defence). Based on the data received, the MACO conducts an analysis and determines whether or not the person should be included on this list. It is decided by the OCAM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u79	Minister, are international meetings planned quickly? I know that there will be meetings at European level, but are there any meetings at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u80	Tomorrow the Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) will be held. In addition, tomorrow morning, a breakfast is also planned with what is called the G11, i.e. all the Member States of the European Union that have jihadists on their territory. Our services will present on this occasion where we are with the counter-propaganda project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u81	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday 21 January you informed the Committee on the Interior that cooperation between the Belgian and French police services has been strengthened in the border area and that the process has already proved fruitful. Nevertheless, you told the same committee that the French National Assembly has not yet ratified the Treaty of Tournai, unlike Belgium, where it was ratified by the end of 2013. This Treaty is essential because it provides legal solutions to very concrete problems faced by field police officers fighting crime in the border area between Belgium and France. It therefore seems that France gives less priority to collaboration between our two countries and seems reluctant to exchange data. Minister, what about these agreements? Are they about to be ratified by France? It seemed to me that you said at this committee that you would normally meet with senior French officials. Maybe you had a chance to tell them about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u82	Dear colleague, I can give you a brief answer. Every time I see Mr. Cazeneuve, I ask him the question. He tells me that it is now before the National Assembly. Tomorrow morning, I'll see him again and ask him the question. It's in progress. In our Parliament, this is moving fast enough, but France apparently has more problems in getting this text voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u83	So I'm counting on your persuasion power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u84	Minister, thank you for being polite. It is also true that this issue deserves to be discussed. Although I try to follow daily negotiations on police pensions, I sometimes miss an episode. In any case, I read that the government had passed a draft bill on transitional measures. Secondly, a draft royal decree would concern suitable employment, as contained in the government agreement. When I read the press, I did not receive agreement from the trade union organisations on the first part. I do not understand how, in terms of social consultation, it is possible for the government to pass a draft bill without the slightest approval. Consultation with Committee A is planned very soon. I'd like you to clarify his skills. Is this to say that the police pension is treated in the same way as the public service pension in general? On the other hand, if this bill seems to address the issue of pensions, I fear that it will introduce new discrimination. Indeed, the conditions that were applicable before the Constitutional Court's decision were repeated. So how can you ensure that this text does not involve discrimination and that it is therefore no longer subject to appeal? In addition, I would have liked you to move forward with the draft order on the reassignment of police officers to a suitable job and on the non-activity prior to the pension. These are two new concepts. Behind this is the question of the financing of these measures. Will they be funded by the federal government, as you committed yourself to it in the debates following the government statement? Or will the municipalities and police areas have to bear this new burden? What I care about is how you move in terms of timing, how you can pass a bill without an agreement being reached with the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u85	Mr Minister, I agree with everything that my colleague has mentioned, but I still want to put my questions to you. The press echoes the failure of the consultation meeting of 26 February 2015, at which SLFP-police left the negotiating table. The president of this union went so far as to call the plan you presented to them a scam. In particular, he denounces the points that I have already raised with you, namely the transitional nature of the measures envisaged and the very uncertain nature of the implementation of the "adapted jobs", as well as the serious doubts as to the capacity of the police areas to take over the non-activity regime, which is already a significant financial loss for the agents and which you present as an alternative solution. If this information is correct, we understand the anger of the workers' organisations, who are calling for a definitive solution to this issue which has not been making any progress for many months. My question will therefore be simple, Minister. How do you intend to reconnect the sons of social dialogue with the police unions? What concrete solutions are you going to put on the table to avoid a social movement that would be as understandable as it would be particularly damaging to the population at a time when you are presenting enhanced security measures as essential? Again, the budgetary issue is at the heart of the debate. Does your next budgetary discharge envisage introducing amounts to finance a solution that meets the legitimate expectations of trade union organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u86	Like many mayors, I am very concerned that your negotiations on the pensions of former gendarmes are bogged down. In this capacity, I sought to have the additional burden that would be placed on the police area that concerns my city of Tournai, the proposal that seems to be currently on the table and rejected by the trade unions. My services estimate this amount to be about two million euros over four years! It is, of course, an unreasonable sum, not to mention the relative elegance of postponing on the communes the difficulties that this government faces in remaining within the constraints of the budget which it has set itself. Minister, can you confirm to me the accuracy of the amount that is being disclosed to me? In order to allow local officials to anticipate the future, regardless of the outcome of the forthcoming consultations, can you inform us of the amount to be paid for the areas of the proposal that you have submitted, broken down by area? How does the Internal FPS plan to fill this financial overload for areas that are already in high demand from a financial point of view, particularly as a result of the budgetary guidelines voted by your majority for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u87	Mr President, I will not repeat everything the other speakers have said. On 6 March 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted the draft law. I shall confine myself to the additional questions. How many people is it about exactly in your bill? I have a question similar to that of the other questioner. What is the budgetary impact of the decision? How much are we talking about? I also have a supplementary question on the questions put by the other speakers. What about the social consultation on that file? Finally, how do you assess the criticism that the scheme only favours the police officers of the former state guard and not the police officers of the ex-municipal police and ex-judicial police, which will lead to further discrimination in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the various questions relating to the progress, timing and content of the negotiations, I confirm that they have started again. A police negotiating committee met on 26 February, as well as on 4 March. In fact, there has never been an interruption per se. The weeks before and after New Year have been used to see clearly in the figures, the different assumptions and positions, as well as their impact and there have been a lot of bilateral contacts. I sincerely regret that the SLFP left the table for the second time. However, invitations, together with the appropriate texts, are addressed to the four representative trade union organisations each time. Following the meeting on 4 March, adapted texts will be sent to the four interlocutors. It is the responsibility of the SLFP to assess them on merit and to join us at the table, if it so wishes. The substantial development of the texts shows enough that we are listening well to the social partners. You will understand, however, that I will conduct the negotiations within the committee and not here in the House. In addition, I welcome the fact that the Government, meeting at the Council of Ministers on 6 March, confirmed the first part of the transitional regime, namely Article 88 (new). This article will be dealt with tomorrow by Committee A. It is now important to finalize it as soon as possible, i.e. this month, as is the negotiations on the draft royal decree on pre-pension non-activity. With regard to the question of the number of beneficiaries, it is true that the transitional arrangements are intended for some 6,000 police officers, but I do not forget the 85% of the remaining officers. Since 12 November, the date of the very first negotiation, they have been part of the discussion by their connection to the debate on heavy trades. I can reassure you: part of the conclusions of the social dialogue will be devoted to them. In addition, the draft Royal Decree provides police personnel with the right to a suitable position if they so wish, from the age of 58. This also applies to the 85% you mentioned. This is part of a human resources policy that takes into account the needs, skills and profile of older workers. With respect to funding issues, I repeat once again that this funding is being handled by the federal authority, whether it is waiting treatment or the salary burden associated with the appropriate work. It has always been said that the savings on pensions will be fully reinjected into the police. To this end, a specific Royal Decree on the allocation of funds will be adopted in consultation with local partners. Once the statutory debate has been finalised, we will proceed with the exact calculation, in close consultation with the areas. Mrs Temmerman, as regards your specific question on the differences between the corps of origin, the legal feasibility of the proposals has been a fundamental starting point for us from the first minute. In fact, Article 88 (1) is nothing other than Article 90 which applies to all other officials. Furthermore, the regulation of non-activity ensured that the judgment of the 2014 Constitutional Court was respected. The Court stated that the difference between officers from the various former police forces should not exceed the difference that existed before 2011, which was not censored by the Court at the time of the Octopus reform. It's been repeated. The proposed transitional arrangements provide for tight monitoring of this situation. The ex-lawyers make an additional minimum effort for the most part of the two-year period, which is in line with the Court's view. I can assure you that this legal alertness will not weaken in the final negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u89	Minister, thank you for these answers. Of course, it is not a matter of doing the discussion here, but I must admit that I still have a timing problem. Why does the government adopt a project before going to social consultation? I don't understand. We will be waiting a few days for the bill you passed to see how it will evolve. At the same time, we will remain attentive to the draft decree including the two new concepts, knowing that trade union organizations are very reluctant to the proposed text since the bill seems to create new discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u90	Minister, for me, there are too many shadows on this issue and not enough answers. I would like more answers from the minister to find out what is suitable work for him. What will be the future of the CALOGs within the police zones? What are we going to do with the contractors? Are we going to fire them so we can put operationals inside? Will police areas still be able to hire CALOGs in the future? I would like more information on suitable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u91	Minister, I share what has just been said by my two colleagues. You said that there had never been an interruption in the negotiations but a use of time to see clearly in the various figures. The only figures I've heard in your answer are as follows: 6,000 policemen are affected and you don't forget the other 85 percent. I asked you a specific question about an amount of two million. I didn't necessarily get an answer. With regard to the right to the appropriate function, I do not want to scare my colleague, but I simply think that when the divisional commissioners will have to manage their police corps with appropriate functions tomorrow, all these people may actually find themselves in the police station. Mr. and Mrs. Tout-le-monde also ask for the police to be outside. Managing staff with this kind of precept risks, in my opinion, being dangerous for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic116x.u92	Mr President, Minister, I am following a bit of what my fellow Members have said. You say that you have followed the law, but I would like to stress once again that the injustice remains natural. We will have to wait for the draft law, but I think there will be problems in the future. I look forward to the solution for the 80 % other policemen. I hope that you will succeed in finding a reasonable solution and, above all, that you will succeed in overcoming the injustices of the past.
