ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u2	Minister, in the port areas, port labour can only be carried out by authorized port workers. This is one of the pillars of our social criminal law, but at the same time one of the pillars of the prosperity of our ports. The system, which, by the way, is older than the Law of the Major of 1972, read the books of Father Karel Van Isacker, has ensured that we not only have a tradition of social peace that has been over half a century old and that our neighboring ports envy us, but that at the same time we have been able to collect a electoral corps of port workers that envy us all. Our dock workers are flexible, constantly employable, twenty-four hours on twenty-four, seven days on seven, three hundred and sixty-five days on one year, including Sundays and public holidays. At the same time, it delivers work on which the customers of our ports are particularly satisfied, even so satisfied that they are prepared to pay a small additional price for the work our port workers do. Unfortunately, the system, which we have been cherishing for more than half a century, is under attack: Europe is questioning it. Europe would like Flemings not only to be left in the lurch, but also to be allowed Czechs, Poland, Romanians, Greeks and Hungarians to participate in this work. So they have already repeatedly organized a rush on our beautiful law with port package 1 and port package 2. That failed twice. Now they have put pressure on you, Minister, with the threat that sanctions will follow if you do not listen and that you and your country will be condemned. You had to listen to Europe and abolish that law. Minister, my question to you is very clear. Have you taken up European blackmail or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u3	Minister, last year a record broke in the port of Antwerp: 200 million tonnes of transhipment in the port of Antwerp. That's 200 million tons worn by workers, dock workers. That is 200 million tonnes that was carried by day and night stations in full flexibility. That's 200 million tonnes that were carried with great danger by all those dock workers. For those 200 million tonnes yesterday they even received fruit and cakes from the patronate as a thank you for the last record year. In the jungle of the port of Antwerp there is a factor of stability, in particular the Major Act, which defends the status of dock workers. That statute clearly states that every dock worker must be trained for three weeks, ensuring safety in the port of Antwerp. The coordination of dock workers is necessary, given the hundreds of tonnes hanging over their heads which represent a danger to their lives. Europe wants to break that statute today by liberalising all the statutes in the port of Antwerp. Moreover, it is quite exceptional that the port's patronage, including DP World and PSA, is not itself a party asking for a review of the dock workers' status. Minister, I have heard that you wish to intervene. That's what my exact questions are about. Can you guarantee me that all workers and dock workers working in logistics will still be covered by Joint Committee 301? With regard to the patterns that wish to recruit outside the pool, can you assure me that the three-week training is still guaranteed for the safety of the staff? My third question concerns multitasking. Some jobs like those of crane or carrier driver, are very specialized. Can you assure me that these workers do not need to become more flexible and that their status will be defended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, could I ask you to listen to the speeches at least during the oral questions? From my place the sound from the hemisphere is impressive, the speakers must make great efforts to get out of it. Actually, that's not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we all know that the Major Act is an old law of 1972, which no longer complies with current economic activities and which urgently needs to be reformed. You submitted a proposal on this matter to the European Commission last week, but we hear very lukewarm reactions from various quarters. The trade unions, on the one hand, show that it is very difficult. They are particularly concerned about safety, which is also justified. Despite all the measures, there are many accidents at work in the port. Safety must therefore remain the first priority. Regardless of whether car dynamometers, bananas or cauliflowers are to be unloaded, safety remains the first priority. Secondly, logistics companies and e-commerce companies are not satisfied with the fact that they still have to meet the same wage and working conditions as port workers. Belgium is already lagging behind in the field of e-commerce. If we continue to slow down, we will lose hundreds of jobs. Commissioner Bulc also speaks of a promising step forward. However, it must look at everything in detail. The real negotiations seem to have yet to begin. We only have six months left to escape that conviction. Minister, I have a few specific questions. What will you do to ensure that the safety of port workers is not compromised? Do you agree with me that the competitiveness of our ports requires that employees of logistics and e-commerce companies in the port should not be included in that joint committee? Are you convinced that within a period of six months you can reach an agreement with all the parties involved in order to avoid a European conviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating our four ports. The figures were published yesterday. Mr Penris and other Members have already referred to the port of Antwerp. The port has handled more than 200 million tonnes of goods and 9 million standard containers, an increase of 8%. We have to do it. [[.]] So wonderful work has been done in the port of Antwerp. I also want to remember the ports of Zeebrugge, Ghent and Ostend. This has been done under current legislation, with the Major Act. I agree that this requires respect, not only for management but also for all workers who have taken care of it, Mr Hedebouw. In my view, there are three fundamental principles which must be maintained. Firstly, we must resolve the legal difficulties which Europe has pointed out to us; technically speaking, it is about Article 49 of the European Treaty. We must ensure that our legislation is in line with Europe. Otherwise there'll be a conviction and fines. Secondly, and this was rightly pointed out by my fellow Members, we must ensure the efficient operation and safety of Belgian ports. The people who work in our ports must be able to do so in safe conditions. Thirdly, we must maintain the high level of social protection for port workers. That is very dear to us and our ports can count on it. It is because of the tranquillity that now prevails in our ports that our workers and companies were able to deliver brilliant results. There are a lot of things being sent into the world that are completely wrong. We have had twelve meetings with the social partners, we have negotiated five times with the European Commission, and we have submitted an action plan on 10 December from the three objectives I stress once again. Mr Klaps, listen carefully, it is an action plan based on the three objectives mentioned above. You should not worry, the Commissioner said it would be okay if we implemented that action plan. I hope that I will also be able to count on your support and cooperation to make that action plan concrete and to ensure that everyone participates in it. We had contact with the Commissioner on 11 December. He has said that we will have his full support if we implement that action plan, with a large part of it on the basis of collective bargaining agreements, on the basis of consultation between employers and employees. So no wipes. The Commissioner has said that he agrees to dismiss the matter next year if we implement that plan. We shall now work on that. What have we given answers to? The obligation to work with recognised port workers coming from a single pool. Secondly, the restriction of freedom of choice for the duration of contracts of employment. Thirdly, shift composition obligations. Fourthly, the prohibition of multitasking. Fifthly, the need to recognise logistical workers. That action plan also provides for a transitional period, because those who believe that in one day everything can be destroyed and the Major Act can be undermined take a terrible risk, worry and the reduction of the yield and profitability of our ports. I'll never be a part of that! We have therefore provided for a transitional period. I hope that the social partners will be able to discuss in the next few days and weeks how to ensure the safety and social protection of people, in accordance with Europe, without social unrest or major discussions and strikes in our ports. Is that gonna fix everything? No, there are other challenges as far as logistics companies are concerned. A number of companies are very active in making a point and putting everything together, but I hope that all Members of this House in this Chamber will be able to distinguish between the Major Act, logistics, e-commerce and night work. We will tackle all the problems, one after the other, with an en-en approach. It is not because this problem may be solved, which I sincerely hope, that we should not tackle the logistical and other problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have once referred to our good colleague Dirk Van Mechelen as a "jewel palace" in a previous life. I apologise for that, because he is not at all, but you, Minister Peeters, you are today. You turn, winding like an eel, around the hot brittle. The final question that we and all port workers ask you is whether the system of the barn stays intact, yes or no. You do not answer that and I know why you cannot. Because Europe has clearly dictated you that you will have to abolish the barf! You will not do that immediately, but you will postpone it for one, two, three or four years. Answer honestly, Minister. Is the barf gonna last? Does the essence of the Major Act stand or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u9	Yeah? Then I'll take your word for it and then I'll withdraw the insult I slinged at your head. I'm a social nationalist. I will make sure that what has happened in other sectors does not happen in port. I will ensure that there is no social dumping in our port, as we have seen in the construction and transport sectors. With that, Minister, you know who you will find on your path.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u10	Minister, you have experienced a lot of pressure from the European institutions in recent weeks. I would encourage you, in the days and weeks that are coming, to go further against that pressure. Many dock workers tell me that the European technocrats in Strasbourg do not know anything about a shift composition for the work in port or do not know at all how many dock workers are needed to unload a ship. The dock workers know that on the premises themselves. What is at stake now is whether or not the liberalisation of port labour will continue. Mr Minister, today you said that the liberalisation of this sector will not go ahead, that the status of dock workers will remain unchanged. You will answer that here today in the presence of N-VA and Open Vld. Some people may have heard it badly. We'll follow it all in the next few days. Everyone here is complaining about social dumping. We now have the power to stop social dumping. Instead of restricting the Major Act, I propose that it be extended to include the construction sector and the international transport sector, so that all workers and servants of our country have a certain social fabric and not the competition of all today's liberals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am glad to hear that security will always remain the first criterion, before any reform being carried out in our port. You absolutely have our support for that. It is not our party that throws everything in a pile, the Major law does it itself. It simply states that only port workers are allowed to work in the geographical area of the port. That has to stop, because the Ring in Antwerp is already daily filled with vans with Dutch number plates that deliver orders, placed at Dutch e-commerce companies. That has to change. Loading and unloading of ships is port work, but e-commerce and logistics are not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u12	Mr President, Minister, it's me again! In French this time. As a federal parliamentarian, we are bilingual. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the social dialogue or rather the lack of social dialogue at SNCB today. At the time of filing my question, I did not know who to address it to. To Minister Galant? I thought no, because she's in provocation, and I'd rather address her to the Minister of Labour, who might try some social reconciliation. So I hope you can unblock the situation. I set the scene again: a 20% increase in productivity for a company that will have 3 billion euros in less money, it's never seen! I have to say that I live very close to home because my little sister is a railwayman. She works in Liège-Guillemins as a train attendant and tells me what a daily increase in productivity means. You have to tell the public because it's not known. I see that the right-wing parliamentarians are making a lot of noise. They don't like to hear that. It hurts your ears! What is the reality for railway workers? Today the operators of the signal booths, who provide dispatching by paying attention both to the direction of the trains and to the tracks on which they are riding, are asked to switch from an 8 to 12 hour schedule. This means that these people will have to operate twice during rush hours. Today, a train driver who completes his working day at 11:00 p.m. has the right to return to work only at 5:00 a.m. From now on, we'll ask him to start earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, how can safety be guaranteed under such conditions? I say this clearly today: we are actively working on new accidents. Stop complaining about the Buizingen accident if, today, you are not giving the SNCB the means to guarantee our safety! To all right-wing politicians, present in the room, to you who are constantly talking about the railwaymen who are privileged. "NMBS employees are really getting far too many gifts. How dare you say that? You who earn 5,000 euros a month! You're going to teach all these workers! Five thousand euros a month, and yet you dare to lecture all the workers and servants of SNCB that they are making too much money! You should be ashamed! You don't like being told. A little humility, please! Minister, I ask you the question: do you intend to unblock the situation? In this context, can you guarantee railway workers that their status will not be dismembered in favour of federal austerity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u13	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Minister, I will not be completely in the same register. Deputy Prime Minister, you're being asked to wear the savior's suit! Indeed, with the arsonist ministers we are dealing with, you are called upon to play or, in any case, to try to play the service firefighter. What is happening at SNCB today? The social situation has never been such. It is true that productivity efforts must be made. The waste is obviously unacceptable. That said, this government has decided to make SNCB make nearly 3 billion savings. You say "jobs, jobs, jobs," but you're deleting 2,700 jobs at SNCB. You demand that some railway workers work twelve hours in a row. Let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not enough to ensure maximum safety and better punctuality of trains! Nor is all this likely to ensure sufficient train supply, including outside the major cities. The first priority is to ensure the resumption of dialogue between SNCB bosses and unions and to establish a serene climate between the protagonists. It's a priority. It is only on this condition that we can avoid the strikes of next January. In my opinion, it is your responsibility here. Minister, will you accept this rescue mission? I urge you to do so because it is in the interest of commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u14	Minister, we can see that the social conflict in the rail sector is blocked. Both inside and outside this House, no one wants the trail to stop for five days in January. I believe that we must avoid this happening at all times and at all costs. Today there is an opportunity for an ultimate social dialogue for which trade unions and management jointly call on you, the Minister of Work, to send a social mediator. I therefore call on you to do so. Minister, I believe that the government has two options: either it follows the tone of Minister Galant and some members of the N-VA in recent weeks, those of the tough statements, or it chooses effective social dialogue, not only in words but also in deeds. I can very much appreciate your link between the social dialogue and the minimum service, because I believe that what you are saying was sensible. Mr Minister, my question is clear and clear. Please send a social mediator. Find someone who can bring management and trade unions around the table again, so that there is no need to stop and the travelers do not stay in the cold in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u15	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I found the first debate rather enriching because we could hear that the messages of the extreme left and the extreme right are a copy of each other. Même combat, I'd say. The same content and the same populism! When it comes to the railroads, I'd like to change it. I believe that today there is a problem of perception with regard to the concept of mediation and social mediation. First of all, I would like to clarify that my group and my party strongly condemn the five announced strike days at SNCB. We strongly condemn this. We believe that this is a totally wrong signal from the trade unions of a company that receives more than EUR 3 billion in donations annually, but that it does not succeed in doing what taxpayers and travellers expect, namely organising rail transport in a proper and adequate way. The company fails in that respect. Minister, as a member of this government, you also approved the reform plan. Last Sunday I heard two pointed railroad bosses say that this is actually just the tip of the iceberg. According to them, this is actually just the minimum minimorum. The attentive television viewer then wonders why they have not dealt with the problem in the past. That is another question, however. Better late than never. I think it's now five by twelve. This plan must be implemented and implemented. If social resistance is encountered in this area, certain procedures can be followed. You will then be able to remove the perception of which you are the victim today. You are called upon by a group, the cdH, to mediate in that conflict. I would strongly advise you not to do so as Minister of Work. You'll meet yourself. You approved that plan in the government. So you can't be the arbitrator in that social conflict. It is true that the legislation lays down a procedure for the appointment of a social mediator. There are recognised social mediators who are independent and who can play a role in resolving social conflicts. However, you should not launch a conflict or interest by giving the impression that Question Time is the appropriate place to take away that impression that as Minister of Work you will mediate in a conflict belonging to the SNCB Directorate and within the competence of your fellow Minister Galant. I would ask you, in the interests of the company, to dot the i's.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u16	Mr President, Mr Dewael is asking me to make the point. He is a former minister and he knows very well that there is a joint committee at SNCB and that the public sector mediators are not responsible for SNCB. There is therefore a problem, in the sense that when a mediator is appointed, he cannot be a mediator in the public sector. That is why the Minister for Employment has been addressed to find a solution to this problem. Yesterday evening I received a letter from the Chairman of the Administrative Board requesting the full national joint committee to appoint a social mediator to restore the social climate of the Belgian Railways as quickly as possible. For the sake of clarity, there is no legislation that currently prescribes a mediator for SNCB. Perhaps Parliament can discuss this idea later, but that obviously does not solve today's problem. Although the question has been addressed to the Minister for Work, it is clear that, in consultation with the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible for Galant and the other ministers in the nuclear cabinet, a position is being formulated which is supported by the government, whoever the mediator may be, because that is not my main problem. In any case, we must give this mediator every opportunity to prevent the strikes from happening successfully. Everyone agrees on that. How will we do this in concrete terms? Once again, I would like to talk to the other members of the government about the mediator, but the social mediator must first of all know the definition of his or her mandate. As Minister of Work, I will not appoint a mediator if it, chips, runs against the wall. I will not ask anyone as mediator, whoever it is, to carry out a mission impossible and never get a positive signal. So first of all, the mandate is important. Secondly, what aspects of the social conflict need to be resolved? You are right to refer to the plan put forward by the Minister responsible for this matter. That has been approved by the government and I will abide by it. What social aspects need to be resolved in order to restore the social climate? What aspects need to be resolved in order to prevent strikes? How can social mediation be achieved? This has much to do with the confidence of the social partners, with the confidence that unfortunately no longer exists between the management of SNCB and the syndicated representatives. Finally, all this takes time. Sending a social mediator into the field with the order to solve the case within three or four days is not possible. I would also like to make that clear. There must be sufficient time to make conciliation a success. I'm rounding up. We discussed the matter at the heart of the matter this morning. It will be discussed again tomorrow and an answer will be forthcoming. I will assume my responsibility as Minister of Work in this matter, because the question has been explicitly asked to the Minister of Work, not to take the mediation myself, but to speak clearly. However, I am already saying clearly that I will not send a mediator into the field when it is not clear, both from the government and from all the other parties involved in SNCB, that mediation can lead to success. Among other things, success will have to mean that there will be no strikes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I think there must be an effective basis for restarting the dialogue with SNCB. Should the railmen and women simply accept that in the coming years, six to seven thousand jobs will be lost? No. Do they have to accept that the flexibility they are being asked to provide will jeopardise rail safety? No. Should they accept the old idea of working longer for less money? No. Besides, I've never heard such a corny idea. That's an idea from the nineteenth century. Since World War II there have been new ideas: let's work less for more money! We're going to ask these people to work an hour longer for less money. Why don't you live in the 21st century? Belgium has never produced as much wealth as today. Up to 150,000 young people are looking for a job and then you come up with an old idea of 37 hours working for less pay. Let's be serious. A dialogue should be initiated. Agreements have been signed under COP21 to increase investment in public services. Minister, you can intervene in the SNCB file to avoid these cuts and have a serene social dialogue. Clearly, some parts of the government want to provoke trade union organizations and workers. I'm counting on you to straighten this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. You are probably the last resort in the light of the extremely tense social situation at the moment at SNCB. If we are here today and I think it is the most serious, it is also because the Minister for Mobility, competent in this area, has decided to stay on the balcony while throwing oil on the fire. It has not invested in restoring dialogue. She did not invest herself with the railway bosses and the unions to get out of this crisis from the top. I fully agree with you that, in order to avoid the January strikes, the priority must be to re-establish dialogue within the SNCB. I think that with your scale and your ability to restore social dialogue, you can do it. The stakes are the interest of commuters, a calm social climate and, above all, a renewed dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Once again, I insist that both management and trade unions are asking for social mediation. There's an ultimate opportunity for this. There seems to be no consensus in the government today on the framework within which that mediator should work. I would ask that this ultimate opportunity should not be missed, just because there is no consensus in the government. I ask you to find consensus in the government tomorrow and to send a mediator. The aim, with which everyone agrees, is to find a solution to the social conflict, so that no travellers remain in the cold in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u20	Minister, I do not think we contradict each other. I have stressed that the essence of arbitration or mediation actually amounts to independence. A social conflict can only be resolved through mediation or arbitration if the mediator does not participate in that or that statement. As a minister, you are a member of a government team that has approved a railway plan. I would like to emphasise once again that my group wants that railway plan implemented. If and course the route conflicts arise, then, if we address the demand for mediation, an independent body or an independent person should be appointed. That's what I'm asking. So it is not a question of a member of the government, of course not a minister, not a colleague of the guardian minister, not a member of a cabinet, but an independent social mediator. Secondly, you refer to the National Joint Committee. I'm glad you do. Indeed, when implementing the railway plan, there will be points that may not be on the table today and which need a two-thirds majority in the National Joint Committee. A qualified majority actually means that we give the railway unions a kind of right of veto. I would ask you to think about this as well; I ask the government in general. It seems to me that this is where the legislation needs to be adapted. Mr President, if the government takes an initiative in this sense, I think that is all the better. If not, I think Parliament should look into this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u21	Mr President, Minister, last Tuesday the RIZIV published a report which states that the number of long-term sick workers is increasing to 335 000 workers. In general, this figure is 7%. However, it is worrying that the number of cases is increasing especially in women, up to 9% more than ten years ago and over two years ago. As a woman, I'm worried about the report. One in ten women is sick under the Christmas tree because of work. Thirty-five percent of women suffer from mental problems due to burn-out or depression. Those aren't good grades to put under the Christmas tree. The report of the RIZIV gives different reasons for these figures. On the one hand, women are overrepresented in precarious sectors, in which they have less decision-making power and less autonomy. What is also not known is that 60% of older workers work in emotionally burdensome sectors, such as health care, education and sales, where they find it difficult to meet clients. Another important reason we have known for a long time is that women spend ten hours more time caring in the family, in the household, in caring for sick children, in caring for a sick family member and in caring for the grandchild. This means that women leave the labour market much faster and retire much faster. This also means, however, that because of the physical and emotional burden they become ill much faster and become ill for a long time. However, the coalition agreement is clear. It clearly stipulates that workable work must be carried out. You take this very much to heart, Minister. That is quite clear from the round tables. You have also made it very clear in the past week that investing in the economy in the beginning is primarily about investing in people. You are also talking about reintegration projects, which are very important. However, it is also very important that a job is not only liveable, but also challenging and interesting. This is a challenge for the social partners. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, what attention did you pay to gender issues at the Round Table? Secondly, what will you do to prevent the loss of long-term ill workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u22	Mrs Van Hoof, workable manoeuvrable work is one of our top priorities for the past year and will be one of our top priorities next year. We are working on its further roll-out. We have held two round tables and received a total of 50 proposals, which are now being screened for their feasibility and impact. We shall continue to pay due attention to it. You are right that women are a specific focus on the labour market, in many areas. You mentioned one, namely the situation of long-term sick people in the labour market. You know that both Minister De Block and I have put forward proposals on reintegration pathways. Such routes are, of course, tailor-made, taking into account the individual situation of the disabled worker, especially when it is a woman. In this case, certain elements must be taken into account. You have quoted a number of reports and new figures. We take them into account in the discussion on workable manoeuvrable work. We will pay due attention to this during the roll-out in 2016. Last week I received a question in plenary about the reintegration of long-term sick. We're looking at that file right now in the federal government. I hope, together with you, that we will be able to communicate the decision very quickly and that you will be able to see that a tailor-made reintegration process takes due account of your legitimate aspirations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Re-integration projects must indeed be considered, but you are also working on workable work in this area, too, and on prevention. It is clear that employers and employees hold each other somewhat in stereotypes. Forty percent of employers hardly invest in older workers and workers. However, there is a question with them to do so. The aim is to ensure that care-free measures, measures to protect workers, are accompanied by devel oping measures, so that people continue to cheer in the workplace. The stereotype is that employers stop investing in older workers because they don't expect anything from them anymore and employees stop investing in themselves because they don't get opportunities anymore. It is intended that this variation, which creates flexibility on the work floor, will give workers and workers back the desire to work and thus less ill under the Christmas tree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u24	Minister, I had hoped very much that I should not be standing here today and not have to ask this question. The agreement reached between the operators of the chain consultation would then have been implemented. Unfortunately. While at the beginning of September the chain talks with large drum roll announced a one-off support and a historic agreement, yesterday was a black day: it turns out that what can be done for the dairy sector cannot be done for pig farmers. Agricultural organisations do not swallow that and speak of breach of contract. They have gone out on the streets and taken action, successfully, because some of our grocery chains, two and two more today, will, on their own initiative, ask their customers to transfer them directly to a limited number of farmers, to their suppliers, giving them a little more perspective. The partners in the chain talks talk about unfulfilled agreements. They remain full of good will and negotiate on the search for a good chord, but in the meantime they pass the blackbird on to each other. The demand for structural solutions is high and comes from all sides. Minister, equally historic are the losses our pig farmers are suffering today. When a lorry with two hundred piglets leaves the farm, that means at least a loss of EUR 2 000 for that farmer. As far as pig meat is concerned, the situation is not much better. In the meantime, Minister, the piggy banks are emptying out. The pig farmers continue to go deeper and deeper in financial, family and social terms. They float between hope and fear, and I assure you that human drama events are inevitable. That scares me. Minister, how do you see the negotiations between agriculture and the chain partners evolving? Or has the proverbial calf, or in this case the pig, completely drowned? The consultations took and were given time to reach an agreement on a voluntary basis. That didn't work. Has not the time come for the political world to take action to ensure that agreements made are enforceable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gantois, it is true that agreements have been made to also provide for a supplement for pig farmers. There have also been clear statements made by the actors in the chain consultation. But is your question that I am also here to intercede and see what I can do? My french shoulders can carry a lot of weight, but even though the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Borsus, and I have pulled the cart to make it all possible, it is a matter of clear agreements between the operators of the chain talks for both the milk sector and the pig farmers. The FPS Economy has contributed a great deal to this by providing the figures and providing support with, among other things, objective analyses on the functioning of the market. If you ask me if I want to intercede on this issue, I will look into it too. Nothing in this life is strange to me and you are right that a huge problem has arisen for farmers and pig farmers. We will first have to establish that the private actors do not comply with their commitments and then I will discuss them further in consultation with my colleague, responsible for Agriculture at the federal level. If you insist, when the N-VA insists that I also intervene in this dossier, I will gladly do so. I can assure you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u26	There is no harm in that, Mr Minister, if you are intervening. But I believe farmers are man enough to defend their own interests. Only they need the right framework to do so. The N-VA believes that the political government can create the policy framework by strengthening the farmer's position in the chain, because he is the weak animal. We want to work in a solution-oriented, productive and proactive way. We can do this through a combination of a strengthened individual complaint right and public oversight. You know better than I do, according to a European study, Belgium is not doing enough against unfair commercial practices and we must do so. It is not a panacea, Minister, because miracle means do not exist. In the meantime, and with all of us farmers, we are asking for the historic agreement to be respected, because an historic agreement is only historic once all the promises have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time I have asked you to listen. I understand that you have all kinds of matters to discuss, but I would ask you to do so outside this hemisphere. At least pay the respect to listen to the speakers, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u28	Mr President, Minister, this is deplorable! We are facing a very serious threat, which imposes the utmost caution, and yet ministers of this government, one after the other, make guignols in front of the media. We don't fight terrorism by looking for the media buzz. We do not fight terrorism by undermining the work and credibility of our police officers, the federal prosecutor's office and our intelligence services. It is distressing, Mr Minister, to hear a foreign minister spreading in the international media about the presence of about ten terrorists on Belgian soil, who would walk freely on the streets of Brussels. It is also deplorable, Minister, to hear you confess on a television set that the public enemy number 1 would have run under the nose of the police and the Sûreté. It is also distressing to hear a Minister of the Interior say that "Belgium has escaped an attack" without any further explanation. You and your colleagues, Minister, have just been trying to get the buzz done. It's as simple as that! The fight against terrorism does not need a media show, but means, Minister, means that your government has drastically sabotaged. All these professionals, all those police officers who are day and night in the field to ensure our safety, the safety of our citizens, in the absence of means, need more respect for the work they do. By force, we play with their reputation. We're playing with the reputation of our police officers. We're playing with the reputation of our intelligence services. We're playing with Belgium's reputation. They make us look like amateurs. We make our services look like amateurs. It is truly deplorable, Minister, to use this period for purposes other than the fight against terrorism. I think the protection of the population is worth more than that. Minister, do you maintain your statements questioning the work of our police services? Was it justified to reveal the probable presence of Salah Abdeslam in Molenbeek? More generally, do your services and those of the federal prosecutor's office consult on how to communicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am not going to tell you that the situation is serious; I think you are well aware of that. There has been chaos since yesterday with statements of all kinds. This does not contribute to transparency, the rule of law and democracy. Let me have this little pun: you have opened fire. For a month now, Parliament has been demanding, intelligently and with reserve, elements inherent in the investigation. There have already been statements from your fellow ministers. Mr Reynders told the media a few days ago that a dozen super-armed terrorists were in Brussels. Minister Jambon also said that attacks were in preparation on 22 November. Last night, he refused to answer me, he said he had no responsibility in the file. He is the Minister of Security, of the Interior, but he has no responsibility in the file. Worse than that, he had no information to communicate last night, saying he had no consultation with you. However, recognize that this is a bit of a mess, it is the least one can say! For the past month, we've been asking for answers. We don't have them. And you go on a TV set. I will rely on your statements, not on the extrapolations that have been made around the file. First of all, the Sûreté says, "Salah Abdeslam was probably in this building." You say "presumably." And the prosecutor says "not at all." Recognize that these contradictory statements are likely to cause confusion! Minister, was Salah Abdeslam present on the scene on the night of November 15-16? Why, when doubt is allowed, are not all the existing legal tools used to enter the apartment before five o'clock in the morning? Exceptions are provided, as a lawyer you know. Why didn't you shut the neighborhood down? Can you reassure us that Salah Abdeslam did not leave while we were waiting to act? Eighty people are being followed. How's the follow-up going? We haven't answered for weeks. This event is not to be taken lightly. I very much hope that you will clarify the situation in order to absolutely break this opacity and the lack of the rule of law that has been established since yesterday in the media because of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what has taken you? How has a federal minister, with your experience, been able to make such statements on an ongoing case, an ongoing investigation, a subject as sensitive as Salah Abdeslam's tracking? As an opposition, we also have questions about the investigation, about the searches, about the government's actions. We insisted that a special commission should be set up on terrorism, that the P and R Committees should deal with the matter. We have asked questions in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. And whenever you or your colleague Mr Jambon said that you could not answer, that the investigation was under way, we understood and respected the work of the services. You, in one interview, broke the silence and discretion around this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u31	After your colleague Minister Reynders, who spoke a few weeks ago on American television to explain to us that there were about ten terrorists armed to the teeth that were walking around in Brussels, it is therefore you today who live on television speculate on what our security services are doing, on the current situation, on potential failures of our services in the hunt for Salah Abdeslam. Please stop playing Columbo apprentices! Stop this amateurism in terms of communication! This is detrimental to the security of the eleven million Belgians, to the reputation of our security and police services, to Belgian and international public opinion. You will have understood, minister, many questions arise. I'd like to ask you two more directly and clearly. What exactly happened on November 15 and 16 in Molenbeek in the hunt for Salah Abdeslam? What does the investigation show? We have a right to know that. Do you realize the impact of your statements in the media on public, Belgian and international opinion? Do you think of the consequences of the reputation of our police, security and intelligence services? Are you committed to not communicating any more on-going cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u32	Mr President, Minister, what a fiasco! While the Prime Minister is constantly learning about the communication of serious facts mobilising the whole of Europe - this is a matter that puts us under the eyes of the whole world - it is within the government itself that, week after week, we hear the worst words and the worst statements, without any control of reality. We could take all this on the basis of derision, but not when it comes to the fight against terrorism and our credibility at the international level, in a country which still welcomes the European and international institutions which also contribute to its reputation. Now you're going to have to explain yourself to the bottom of things. Two things one. Either you let it filter out elements of the investigation that would have some basis – that is, the most wanted terrorist in Europe was well on the places monitored by the police forces from which he could escape – and that has nothing to do with the search procedures. As noted, there are many other legal and police avenues to identify an individual hidden in a building. So either that's true and then we have to designate responsibilities at the level of the chain of command; or that's not true and you've come alone to influence the political debate in favour of the commitments you've made. This is unacceptable! Parliament is now entitled to know the facts. No more falsifiers or escapes! It is not only your credibility but also that of this country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u33	Mr President, what a lot of caricatures and excesses! Since it is soon Christmas, Mr. Frédéric, I will not go back to terms such as "guignols" or "fiasco". Explanations must be given, Mr. Minister of Justice. You are committed to this government with great strength to equip our country with an arsenal of measures that can make us more effective in the face of the radical and terrorist threat and, certainly, catch up with a certain delay in this area. This is the reason for the twelve measures that were taken at the beginning of the legislature and the eighteen others that the Prime Minister recently announced. We're going out... [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, can a Member of the majority still speak? You would please me by defending my right to speak as you did for Mr Hedebouw earlier. I would like to go to the end of my speech in serenity. We are emerging from a period of just over a month that is extremely tense in the fight against radicalism and terrorism. In this context, Minister, you have spoken to most likely present one of the eighteen important measures. It is indeed a matter of not giving the terrorists a mild night.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u34	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u35	Mr. Minister, you have spoken about this measure, which must allow us to search 24 hours a day. In this regard, we must share a need for transparency, a need for clarification. Indeed, you indicated that there was some information suggesting that the terrorist was in a house in Molenbeek.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u37	Mrs. Onkelinx, it's the end of the year. I know things are getting tough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u39	Please, Mrs. Onkelinx, let Mr. Ducrame speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u40	Mrs Onkelinx, I know that you have been trying to make a constructive speech for a few months. But we're at the end of the year, you're a little tired and you're having a hard time holding your wild horses!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u41	Come to your question, Mr. Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u42	Mr. Minister, we've seen a media rush following your statements. Today, we are faced with contradictory versions. We don't know where the reality is anymore. I know that, like the majority, like this Parliament, you want things to be clarified in the interests of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u43	Mr. Secretary, today our country is back on the first page of The New York Times. The spokesperson of the federal court is questioning whether or not what you are saying is correct. I do not want to go into the cackling, like other fellow Members, as I shall call it, of a number of ministers, including you, about the ongoing investigation. First of all, I would like to ask you a question that you cannot answer, a question that concerns a lot of people. Is it correct that terrorist number 1 in Europe, who was able to immerse our country in a level 3 terrorist threat, and in Brussels at a certain point level 4, was able to escape in a closet that was moved under the nose of police forces? This is a question you cannot answer, Minister. I'll tell you why. You can't answer it because what had to happen didn't happen. This problem has been dealt with completely wrongly. Every mayor in this country, and here there are a lot of people present, will probably agree with me on what should happen if there is danger. If somewhere in the neighborhood there is a ruined house, if there is a bomb threat, if there is a gas leak, a perimeter is defined and turned off. If there is a gas leak, the gas company is called in, which, under the leadership of the police, controls every gas tap until it has solved the problem. Then the mayor gives permission to return. Minister, there is one question I would like answered. Who's responsible for the miserable blunder that didn't happen? I would very much like to know your answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u44	Mr President, Minister, my group is in favour of clear policy communication. However, if police and prosecutors are on the trail of terrorists, then the secret of the investigation applies. That's not to withhold information or wipe it under the mat. That has one single purpose, in particular not to interfere with the search strategy, because even I know that people do not hunt with the band in the lead. However, I am surprised when I hear in the media that searches are being made in real time and when I hear statements about the identification of victims or suspects who died during the investigation, about how they are identified by a fingercuff. I am surprised when I read that you say that we would have come too late if we had conducted a search at five o'clock in the morning at Salah Abdeslam's house. That's what I heard in a VTM program. A search at 5:00 in the morning would have been too late. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is the secret of the investigation still valid as long as the research strategy requires it? Is there any evidence of leaks in the investigation that endanger the investigation? Will they be prosecuted, too? Or are only fathers of dead sons persecuted before the council chamber? The next thing is very important to me. You say we knew we were five o'clock late to arrest Salah Abdeslam. Then why wasn't someone invaded when they could, before 22:00? Then why didn't they keep watch on his house, on the roof, on the windows or the doors, and didn't they arrest him when he left the house at 05:05 or later?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to say the same in Dutch and French to be very clear. As far as last night's show is concerned, for those who would not have seen it, I would like to clarify this. It rarely happened that I was quoted contra and for before the show was produced. That was the case. But for those who would not have seen it, I have only pointed out, on the occasion of a question on the package of counter-terrorism measures taken by the government, how the legal restrictions on search hours may be a handicap in certain emergency situations, particularly related to terrorism. That is the question I answered. I also talked about other things at that time. In some circumstances, nighttime intervention, in addition to time and tactical factors, would allow intervention by ensuring greater security for both police and neighbours and passers-by. That is why the government proposed to change the law in this respect on the basis of the experiences of Verviers, Paris and Brussels. For those who have not seen last night's broadcast, it is rare to quote for and against before a programme is broadcast.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In certain circumstances, the ability to act at night, in addition to the factors of time and tactics, could also allow to act with a greater form of security, both for the police forces and for the neighbours and the passers-by. It is precisely for this reason that the government now assumes that searches for a terrorist case should be looked at differently, in particular on the basis of experience in Verviers, Paris and Brussels. That is why we have proposed that the law be amended. It is not the first time I have said that; I have said that since it happened. Specifically for Monday 16 November, the police carried out a search in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek in Delaunoystraat. I assume that it was not thought at the time that there could be nothing going on there. You've seen all that, too. Order services entered the house at 10:00, but preparations had been going on for several hours. According to the federal court, the time of the start of the search was chosen for operational reasons and for opportunity reasons, such as in Verviers, where the search was made at 18:00. The search in the house in Molenbeek, which was intended to make sure that Salah Abdeslam was there or would have been there, gave a negative result. In the specific case, on Monday, 16 November, the police carried out a search at Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Delaunoy Street. The police entered the house at 10 a.m., the preparations were obviously under way for several hours. According to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the time of the beginning of the search was chosen for operational and opportune reasons, as well as in Verviers where it started at 6 p.m. The search at Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, which was intended to verify whether Salah Abdeslam was, or could have been, in the dwelling in question, was negative. I never claimed Mr Salah Abdeslam's presence in Molenbeek on 16 November, but the Federal Prosecutor's Office confirmed yesterday in a press release his possible presence. It is indeed the federal prosecutor's office that must communicate on this subject. You will not be able to see in last night's broadcast that I communicated about this when I only, as well as Mr. Jambon on the same show, implied a possible presence which the services had to take into account, as is evident from the large deployment of security forces during the search and the time it lasted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never claimed that Salah Abdeslam was indeed present in Molenbeek on 16 November, but just as yesterday the federal parquet itself communicated that there was a chance that Salah Abdeslam was in the building and my colleague Jambon confirmed that in the same broadcast, I implicitly called for a possible presence to be taken into account by the services, as shown by the important commitment of the security services in connection with the search for the house and its duration. Also in response to the journalist's question about the counter-terrorism measures the government was going to take. For the record, I have not stated that Salah Abdeslam would have succeeded in escaping the police by the fact that it is forbidden to perform overnight. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to give more room for manoeuvre to law enforcement services in order to better plan and implement their interventions in private places, especially in situations where there is a certain degree of danger. It is therefore in that sense that I have formulated my answer, which was also the reason for the preliminary draft law currently before the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of clarity, I would like to say here that I did not say that Salah Abdeslam has escaped the police by little because of this ban on acting at night. Nevertheless, there is a need to give law enforcement officers greater flexibility to plan and intervene in private places, especially, Mrs. Onkelinx, in situations of dangerousness. That was the meaning of my answer to the question about what counter-terrorism measures I propose. This has also motivated the draft law currently under consideration in the Council of State. As regards my solidarity with the services, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to find a statement, only one moment when I did not support my services against any criticism of anyone. Last night, I only dared to say that our services could have worked even better if they had been able to work between 9 p.m. and 5 p.m.... [[Tumults]] ... in case of flagrante delicto, and I have just said that this is the conclusion that I draw from the attacks in Verviers, Paris and Brussels. My dear friends, as far as services are concerned, I would ask you to tell me where I would have failed the services. I have been particularly supportive of the services since the beginning, against all criticism. Because I want to improve the conditions in which they work, taking into account the difficult circumstances in which they find themselves, I have proposed a number of measures. Mr President, I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u46	Minister, of course, I am not satisfied with your answer at all. When you talk about restrictions, in any case, the hours when searches can be carried out, it is a false debate because you are trying to drown the fish. You know very well that there are exceptions. Especially with regard to narcotics, these search hours are not respected. In this House, no one is opposed to exceptions in the field of terrorism. So, you have to stop drowning the fish. This is a false debate! As far as communication is concerned, however, we have made the headlines of the New York Times, of France Inter. I sincerely believe that at some point we must restore credibility to our services, to Belgium and to stop it. We, together with Parliament, have played the game of discretion and the cacophony that appears from this government does not sit at all! We also ask you for such discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u47	Minister, I do not hide my anger at your response. This one is in all respects contradictory. You are bothering to read what you said on television the day before last night and, at the end of your message, you contradict your words. Yes, minister, you say different things! You hear that if we had had the extended searches, I could have done better if I had done so, and I would have asked myself whether, tomorrow, in the event of a threat of a serious attack, you will wait 05:00 a.m. to act without granting any existing legal exceptions. Our citizens and parliamentarians were waiting for answers. You threw more opacity on the file. Our citizens, but also the European citizens, especially the French, were waiting for answers on how you were going to get hold of Salah Abdeslam and also on the follow-up that you could reserve for the 80 people considered dangerous. There is no answer in this regard. I feel like you're drowning the fish with counter-truths, contradictions. And if the prosecution went out in the press, it's because you started!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u48	Minister, as I understand it, your interview with VTM was in fact a marketing and communication operation in relation to one of the government's eighteen measures related to night searches. If that is the case, it is indecent! You do not realize the serious miscommunication that this represents and the impact on our people. Today, because of this kind of failure, our fellow citizens lose confidence in their services. I am not saying that you have spoken unfortunately about the services, but the impact is disastrous on the confidence our fellow citizens have in their security and police services and on their reputation abroad. You can't deny it. All over the world, unfortunately, we are once again ridiculed, our services are ridiculed. This communication and marketing is absolutely regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u49	In short, Mr. Minister, you would not have understood your own words, but everyone understood them, as well as the prosecutor's office! I'm rereading the prosecutor's press release. "To confirm that he could not be arrested because we cannot carry out searches between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. and that he escaped during this time frame is an extrapolation." That's what the parquet says about you! Today, will you have the audacity to say that the prosecutor's office is in error? Tell us! But we're not going to continue the hide-and-seek game you're doing because the case isn't over. Far from it! We cannot accept in this country, at such a crucial moment in the fight against terrorism, that the Minister of Justice should venture in this way in the media. I will not speak here about the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, who has nothing to do with the question. I know that once again there will be some kind of complicity from the majority to keep quiet about the seriousness of the facts. However, this case will continue for a long time and, in any case, we will take care of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u50	Mr Minister, let me say two things about the faux débat, the diversion, the excuse, in particular the debate on searches between 22:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. tomorrow. If that is the lesson you are taking from Verviers and Paris, I am surprised that this measure was not included in the battery measures that were put forward on 12 January. Now that measure is there, number 16 of the 18 measures. I am launching a specific invitation to the chairman of the Temporary Committee on Counter-Terrorism. The text is ready. I propose that we start tomorrow, as planned, so that this excuse disappears. We can start the debate and, as far as I am concerned, even vote on it for New Year. However, it is a false debate, Minister. You know very well that a mistake has been made not to close up, not to check thoroughly and to check who was present and to determine whether Salah Abdeslam was there or not. That mistake was made purely because we did not do what is logically done in these circumstances, namely to disarm the situation and to have it thoroughly checked. I only asked one question on purpose. Who is responsible for this? Why hasn't the government decided to drop this place off and check it out? That is my question, but I understand you do not wish to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u51	If I am not mistaken, Minister, I have heard you say in the VTM programme that there would have been too late at 5:00. Then why was a search conducted at 10:00 in the morning? If the strategy of the investigation or operational reasons I understood that 10 a.m. was the most appropriate time, why did you say that at 5 a.m. it would have been too late? Mr. Secretary, don't get me wrong. We share your intention and support you in the fight against terrorism. For us, however, one thing is clear: in an ongoing investigation, silence is gold!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the government has put forward, according to the Prime Minister's statements, two things that I think are essential and that I can share: on the one hand, jobs, jobs, jobs, and, on the other hand, something that others may not share, social consultation and respect for it. Decisions taken by the government were put on the table but were to be the subject of social consultation. This is the return to work of long-term unfit workers. It was even intended that it should be mandatory, that there should be possible sanctions. But the social partners of the Group of Ten, employers and workers' representatives agree – and it must be stressed – that this should not be mandatory and that there should be no sanction. You and your colleague, the Minister for Employment and Social Cooperation, Mr Peeters, have made a commitment that this agreement will be endorsed. Last Thursday, Kern was to endorse this agreement. Today, that is not the case. There was a meeting today or yesterday, and again, that is not the case. According to the press, the file should come back tomorrow at 3 p.m., to finish before the holidays, in order to endorse – or not – this agreement. Minister, the question is simple. You have made a commitment to have the agreement of the Group of Ten endorsed in the context of social dialogue. Employers are clear. Workers' organisations are clear. They agree with paths, but not mandatory and without sanction. Even if some, including your party level, disagree, will you and your colleague Mr Peeters have this agreement ratified by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u53	Mr President, Mr Massin, on 20 November we presented to the social partners the two implementing decrees amended in the framework of the Platform "Return to work" of the National Labour Council. Last week, the Group of Ten reached agreement on the temporary unemployment regime and the reintegration route. We have to thank them for that. As I said last week, a social agreement is good, but there is also a need for political agreement within the government. And this social agreement must be compatible with the government agreement and the budget. An agreement within the government will be discussed tomorrow. The government only met once last Friday. A number of questions have been identified, which need to be clarified from a technical point of view. We want a personalized approach for the patients concerned, for long-term patients. We want a positive approach: we need to talk about the capacity to work and not the incapacity to work. We want to empower all concerned, doctors, patients and employers. If it takes one more day, we will take it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u54	Madam Minister, let us have a good account! We were in The Imaginary Sick. With the government, we fall into Le Misanthrope. You're a beneficiary of unemployment benefits, you're a fraud, you're a beneficiary of the system... you're an unemployed person, you're a fraud, you're a lazy person... you're a pensioner, that's not normal, working. And now you're sick, you're Molière's imaginary sick. You have to stop. You have made commitments to the social partners. Respect them, please! Otherwise you will lose all credibility! This is perhaps the most fundamental element, especially when the social partners tell you that they agree on the individualised approach. The only two things we do not want are that it is mandatory and that there are sanctions. Respect them, please! That's what they're trying to do with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, there are 700 known chemicals that can cause hormone disrupting in our bodies. You, as a doctor, know that they take a human toll and the scientists agree. Enough studies show that this has resulted in cancer cases and it is also due to autism, infertility and obesity. Yesterday, the European Court of Justice condemned the European Commission for delay in laying down the criteria for hormone-distorting substances. In 2009, the European Commission was commissioned to do so. She had the time until 2013 and she didn't do it. In 2014, Sweden lodged a complaint. In 2015, all European Member States were followed, including Belgium. On the same day we received reports about phthalates in hospital equipment and plastic and their effects. It was clearly stated that the culprit had been found, namely plastic tubes and tubes that penetrate deeply into the patient's skin during and after surgery. Catheders, tubes and gastric probes are great culprits. Studies have shown that it has long been known that these have a toxic and hormone disrupting effect. My question is logical and clear. Which side are you on, on the side of the European Commission, who is stalling, or on the side of all the European Member States, who want urgent action? Will you, as a doctor, also do something about the phthalates in hospital equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, I have tested this answer with the other relevant ministers, Mrs Marghem and Mr Borsus. We do take the protection against the effects of hormone-distorting substances very seriously, but it is a matter that is being addressed at European level. It is very difficult to tell whether a substance is hormone-prone and at what exposure it is. Co-operation with the Member States is taking place. Each does part of the work in the evaluation of 700 substances. We want to play as little cavalier seul as possible. There is no point in taking measures if we do not know why we are taking them and how we should take them. There are many cosmetics, pesticides, biocidal products, but also food packaging products, which are traded throughout Europe. The facts are there. The European Commission has been condemned for taking too long to put its regulations on biocidal products in order. Belgium therefore supported the submission of that complaint in 2015. We are very active in this from the outset. We demand that the Commission give a definition so that there is a clear framework within which we can work. We evaluate substances within the framework of the European Chemicals Agency, we also participate in expert panels and so on. It is important that we want to work on a scientific basis and to this end we must be able to focus on independent research in the framework of scientific organisms, such as the European Chemicals Agency or the European Food Authority. The questions are, for example, whether a substance is hormone disrupting, from what exposure, and what measures should be taken. We must also pay attention to simplism. We must be aware that unnecessary or frivolous measures may lead to alternatives being sought, which may be even more harmful than current products on the market. Let us not forget that bisphenol is one of the most evaluated substances in the world. The EFCA is based on more than two thousand studies. The European Court has taken a decision and we accept it. More than ever, however, a European approach is needed. We believe that the European Commission will take that judgment to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u57	Madam Minister, perhaps you could go to work in France, where several steps have already been taken. That could help us move forward. As far as banning bisphenol, for example, is concerned, France is already far beyond Belgium. I do not agree with you that there is insufficient independent scientific research; that is absolutely what is happening. We must no longer play hide-and-seek with public health; that time is over. After all, we have lost five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u58	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, cheating software in Belgian hospitals. This week a report from the Medical Evaluation and Control Service appeared in the newspapers, which shows that in 15% of our hospitals more than 66% of the CT scans of rock bones take place. I'd be happy to give you a lesson in anatomy. I'll stick to the time. Our rock bones are part of our skull base. They are in the extension of our hearing canal. Those rock bones are small and technically more difficult to investigate. It is very strange, but the fee for such research is much more advantageous than a scan of the skull or a scan of the face. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service has gone to see where the problem is. Is the investigation too much for you? Are the radiologists billing too much? Or is it the billing services themselves? I have to tell you what the hospital funding is like. For radiology, 70% to 80% of the fee for this nomenclature number goes to hospitals. Approximately 20% goes to the far-reaching doctor. What has been established? It's the hospitals that are systematically overinvoicing. It's kind of weird. What does this prove? I'm not throwing a rock at hospitals. Hospital funding is in distress, and our minister is working on it. The hospitals need an optimal billing. However, there is a limit between optimum and fraud. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service has succeeded in demonstrating this phenomenon. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. Firstly, are the names of the institutions concerned published in the light of the openness that the patient would like to have? Secondly, most of the institutions concerned, with one exception, have declared that they are going to pay back too much. Everything okay, but do they get a fine? Thirdly, thanks to its field knowledge, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service found a difference of 3 million euros for this one achievement. Are you going to continue on this path? Will the RIZIV continue this way of doing things?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u59	Mr Vercammen, thank you for this brief lesson in anatomy. I'm gonna tell you a secret. I already knew the rock bones. All madness on a stick, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has found a number of too high invoices in about fourteen hospitals. I have to say, these people have done their job well. The correct examinations were requested, but they have taken the outliers where proportional too many scans of the rock bones were actually billed. Normally, that's 10% of those surveys. So there's been a warning to those 14 hospitals. The good news is that thirteen of them have already repaid the unnecessary invoicing. It is two years, 2013 and 2014. Of course, the controls will continue for the following years. It is important that EUR 2.4 million has been repaid to the RIZIV for the wrongly raised fees. I do not know to what extent the results of the investigation should be made public. I believe that it must certainly be said that this is proof that the Medical Evaluation and Control Service is doing its job with punctuality. I should therefore like to congratulate them on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. I would like to stress that the N-VA continues to fight for the preservation of open, free and accessible medicine. In times of budgetary difficulty, this can only happen if the rotten apples get out of the basket. Unfortunately, all too often the opposite happens and all sheep are shaved along the same lines. The index is not implemented and some percentages of a specific nomenclature number are removed. Madam Secretary, we wish you much courage for what is to come. We will help you to save our health care, but by this kind of measures and not by a general approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u61	Mr President, Minister, in January 2014, the pig sector suffered a major crisis, particularly as a result of the Russian embargo. What are the consequences of this crisis? Of course, the collapse of the pig price. In our country, the sector is heavily affected. Indeed, 70% of our pig production is exported. It is true, Mr. Minister, that you took up this problem at arm-to-body, as soon as you took office. Various measures have already been taken. You have been pro-active at European level so that this embargo can be lifted. You have removed the contributions for the Porcine Health Fund. This represents no less than €3.6 million for 2014 and €4 million for 2015. In August 2015, you accompanied the agreement in principle reached at the level of the "chain deal" which was difficult to achieve. Minister, can you remind me of the terms of this agreement in principle? What is your analysis of this blockage? Do you intend to take initiatives to assume the role of facilitator in this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the pig sector is indeed very difficult, with prices falling by at least 30% and continuing. Thus, for example, the price per kilo on foot is now 88 euros, price never reached in the past. You're right, it's an important sector. In particular, we have produced 1.1 billion tonnes of pigmeat over the past year. We must therefore take action if we really want to save this sector. You mentioned the European level where we strongly advocated for the opening of the health embargo with Russia. Belgium has played a leading role in this area and we expect this demand to be realized, as well as other demands related to market support and storage measures at European level. At the federal level, however, the current situation is the failure of the "chain concertation" in the pig sector. I recall that EUR 30 million had been announced as support for the sector following the consultation with distribution, trade and processing. Unfortunately, after four months of negotiations on Tuesday, contacts failed. What's the situation? On the one hand, several agreements with certain commercial channels are now organised; on the other hand, producer organisations are very dissatisfied and there are risks of short-term shares in the shops. I have therefore taken the initiative, since Wednesday, to contact all these actors, to try to make proposals to renew the dialogue. In this regard, we have a plenary meeting to be held next Monday at 4.30 p.m. with all the players in the chain, with the support of Kris Peeters, the Autorité de la Concurrence and other stakeholders. On the other hand, I have also been able to obtain from agricultural organisations that, temporarily, there are no actions taken until Monday to give mediation a chance. As you also pointed out, this week we have just confirmed exemptions from contributions to the Health Fund, which in 2015 represent €4 million for the sector. Let us be very clear, we must be mobilized. I want to be personally very much involved in actions to support this sector and the agricultural sector in general, otherwise we will have to see a destructive and devastating crisis for a sector where we have been at the cutting edge for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u63	Mr Minister, I thank you for this firm, committed response, which shows that you are really here to support this sector, which, as you said, is experiencing a major crisis both in the pig, dairy and beef sectors. Thank you for making contact with the various players in the channel. I believe you will try to play this role as facilitator. Our group will continue to support you in your work for this much-needed sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u64	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Clarinval, referred to his written report. Ladies and gentlemen, very few speakers have signed up for the general discussion. Anyone who feels called to intervene must come forward. Mrs Fonck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u66	Mr. Chair, Minister, we debated this bill in committee. I'm not going to go back to all the points here. But I think it is necessary to highlight the uncertainties that continue to affect legal certainty. I have had the opportunity to talk to you about this and to explain it at length at the time of the committee. I usually do not go back to the opinions of the Council of State in plenary, but on this issue it seems important to me as this opinion is overwhelming. It states that the proposed law restores the provision overturned by the Constitutional Court and thus overrides the authority of the Constitutional Court's decisions. The government is restoring a discriminatory situation. It exposes itself not only to the risk of rescission, but also to the risk of suspension on the basis of article 20, paragraph 2, of the Special Law on the Constitutional Court, according to which the Court may suspend a law at the request of an applicant party if that law is identical or similar to a norm already annulled by that Court. If that happened, it would be the police officers concerned who would be the victims first. I now turn to the substance and the debates that have taken place with the police unions. When this arranges the government, it agrees to respect social consultation and presents it as something that everyone must follow unconditionally. When this does not help him, he does not hesitate to boycott this concertation, or even to sit on it. In this case, we have sought the views of the social partners. You still haven't communicated it to us, minister. This is understandable since it is known that three of the four unions disagreed on this part of the text. Finally, one point presented a difficulty, namely the coefficient and its involvement. You did not provide us with a reply in committee on this matter. I'm not going to go back to technicality. This is an element which the unions had made a great deal of emphasis on. The government was not able to answer anything. There are some positive points, and we can vote in favour of the articles on them. However, we have different grievances against the parts I have just mentioned. So we will only be able to abstain on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u67	Are there any other speakers on the police pension? Mr Clarinval has just informed me that Mrs de Coster-Bauchau is in the parking lot. Soyons gentils. If there are no other speakers, I will suspend the sitting for two minutes, pending the arrival of Mrs de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u68	Mr President, I will sacrifice myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u69	Mr Temmerman, thank you for that. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u70	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak, but I shall now do so briefly, because it is requested by the President and by the fellow Members of the MR. You see how the opposition still cooperates with the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that we have found a solution to the problem of police pensions. The problem is that it is again a temporary solution, which will, of course, also give rise to criticism. There is once again inequality and therefore there is a risk that the measure will be referred back to the Constitutional Court. They do not know what will come out of it. We are once again concerned that procedures will be followed again. What's the problem? The Minister had promised to solve the problem of the heavy professions by the end of the year. This is still not the case, but in the meantime the extension of the retirement age to 67 years has been approved, starting on 1 January. We do not deny that many tasks in the police office are effectively covered by the heavy professions and we now have a partial solution, so that some will not have to comply with the law to work for up to 67 years. One should not have focused on one profession, that of a police officer, but should first solve the problem of the heavy professions, then look at what one does with age and then whether additional matters are needed for the police. I fear that we are back to this and that the problem has not been solved at all. In the interim, however, we can agree to the proposal. Then there is the question of the accumulation of a pension for physical incapacity with a replacement income. It is good that what was not meant to be done by the previous legislator is corrected and that this combination will be allowed in the future. However, we have a problem with the cumulation of a pension granted for age limits with a professional income. The correction was actually made at the request of the Constitutional Court, since the previous measure was suspended. They are now re-introducing them. That is incomprehensible to us. In addition, the Council of State also made a comment on this. It is incomprehensible that this should be re-implemented. We cannot agree with that at all. Finally, there is the provision on guaranteed income for the elderly. Of course, we are in favour of the income guarantee for older people following the index, just as we are in favour of it for all incomes, wages and benefits. We would therefore vote in favour, but since the three measures are proposed in one law and we absolutely do not agree with one part of it, we will abstain from voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u71	In the meantime, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau has arrived.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank Mrs Temmerman for allowing me to arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u73	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Temmerman. It is good to be able to count on friendly colleagues to come to the rescue of the one who is a little late. Let's get back to us! Pension reform initiated by this government under the leadership of Minister Bacquelaine is continuing. As in most European countries, this reform is obvious. Not only for the purpose of making our fellow citizens work longer, but also for the purpose of sustaining the system, maintaining decent pensions adapted to the evolution of society for future generations and, above all, to make them more equitable, socially, for all those who have contributed to it during their working lives. I would like to point out that important legislative work has been down in the last year, which is still pursuing the same objective. I would like to point out that the limits of authorized work have been removed first; the graduation bonus has been abolished; the age and career conditions for retirement have been raised; pension incomes have been increased through the 15% increase in vacation pay; the GRAPA pensions have been increased by 2%; pensions that took place before 1995 have been increased by 1% and pensions that took place in 2010 have been increased by 2%; the self-employed pensions and the mixed career pensions of employees have been gradually harmonized - and this is not nothing. On the other hand, through the tax shift which we will have the opportunity to discuss again tomorrow, this government has committed itself to reducing the taxation on pensions and, consequently, to increasing the purchasing power of pensioners. Measures such as the abolition of the 30% tranche are a real benefit for pensioners. This is a tax reduction of EUR 184. Similarly, the increase of the tranche to 45 % and the additional recurrent budget of 50 million to increase the lowest pensions must, of course, be added to the provisions I mentioned earlier, which, ladies and gentlemen, will favour an increase in pensions which, depending on the situation, can reach EUR 1 370 per year for the benefit of the smallest pensions. The calculations of the Minister of Pensions show this, despite some assertions still written this morning in the press. Let me tell you that they are rather a source of unsubstantiated anxiety and fear among our fellow citizens. I disagree and cannot hear today that the government would be "anti-pensioners". Mr. Chair, Ministers, I am confident that the decisions that have been made will promote the purchasing power of pensioners. We have not yet reached the end of the reform, as everyone knows, but it will not hurt them. On the contrary! I know that this is not one of the projects we are debating today, but it seems to me important, as a preamble, to put the clocks back on schedule and to twist the neck to some counter-truths that have been peddled in recent days. I come back to the subject of both bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u75	Madame de Coster, since you're dealing with the subject, I'm forced to intervene. You claim that pensioners will be eligible to benefit from the amendment to the personal tax scales, for example, the 30% tax rate that is taxable at 25. First of all, I would like to reply that only those who reach this level of taxation are concerned. Indeed, many pensioners receive a very low pension, but what you say is not entirely true. The benefit of this measure will be reduced by another amount as a result of the change in the tax reduction on pensions and other replacement income. The government has included such a provision in the tax shift to mitigate the effect of tax-exemptness, but it goes beyond it. In other words, the result will be a tax increase for the pensioner, which will snack on what he earns on the 30%. You seem to forget that at pensioners' level, too, an index jump came this summer. The Minister of Pensions can confirm it to you - he told me in response to a written question. You must also take this loss into account. I could still mention several elements in favour of pensioners. You quote everything that is possibly good for pensioners, but you forget all the negative measures for them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u76	Mr Van Hees, I am going to ask you a question: do you have a concrete case? Our Minister of Pensions has given us concrete figures. I'm a pragmatic woman, so I've been looking at the issue. I'd like you to give me the specific case of a pensioner. I can give you concrete cases. Obviously, it is difficult, in the case of pensions, to make a linear answer, to say, "That's how it is for everyone." No! It is well known that for the one who is below such a ceiling, for the one who is isolated, for the one who has a mixed career, for the one who is unemployed, for the one who is incapacitated – and we are going to talk about it – the situation is completely different. If I take up the examples that I have analysed, in all the cases, in relation to what you have just said, I see that there is a tax reduction. I see that the pensioner is in a better situation. Obviously, a person who did not pay tax is not going to have a tax reduction. But that seems normal to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u77	What about the index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u78	Mrs Temmerman, the index jump is compensated by the wellness envelope, and you know that. [[Brouhahaha]] What, Father Fouettard? Mr Laaouej, you have already spoken a thousand times! This morning, you're still in the press: "The government doesn't like pensioners." What did you say? It's an obsession, "The government's anti-pensioners." No, and three times no, I don't agree with your theory!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u79	Mrs de Coster, is VAT tax or is it not tax? It's a simple question!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u80	You decided to get me! Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u81	No, not at all! You're getting stuck on your own!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u82	I'm not from the finance sector, sir! Let us turn to the bill that concerns us. I would just like to say that I am convinced that, step by step, the government is busy building a successful pension model. Our children and grandchildren will be happy. Mr Laaouej, look at the French model! All the French went down the street to defend their pension model and nothing is solved! We have the courage, even if it is difficult, to provide for a system that will allow the financing of pensions for future generations. That's very important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u83	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, this government very much likes to cook with the report of the Pension Commission. The problem is that every time she pulls out what fits her and leaves what doesn't fit her. You have just said that you will provide funding for the pensions of the future, for our children and grandchildren. I would like to remind you that the report of the Pension Committee states that pensions can be financed perfectly if capital, or part of capital, is also paid in. You are now saying that you will ensure that pensions remain affordable in the future. However, you reduce pensions and increase age. One will have to work longer for less money. And yet you dare to say that you want to secure the future. There was another possibility. The Pension Commission has also provided you with this opportunity. This government does not want to take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u84	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, I keep hearing the government or the majority boast about the report of the Study Committee on Aging, saying that they assume the viability and future financing of pensions. However, in this report of the Study Committee on Aging, you forget two elements. Firstly, in this report, it is expected that an additional 350,000 foreigners will settle in Belgium by 2025 and have been working since the first day of their arrival. And you count, by 2060, on an additional 1,350,000 foreigners, each of whom will have a job as soon as they arrive in our territory. It is a complete utopia and it is obviously the first element that shows that your projection of pension viability is not credible. Secondly, when the legal age of the pension for women was changed, a significant transfer took place from pension expenditure to sickness and disability expenditure. Experts, such as Jean Hindriks, who are references in this area, say that what you have developed as a policy, namely to play on the legal exit age – 65, 66, 67 – without articulating career planning with the pension age, without having worked on the career scheme in connection with pensions, will undoubtedly lead you to significant expenditure transfers to the sickness and disability sector. These two major elements illustrate very clearly that not only does this report show your government's choice of policies, but also that this system is not sustainable in terms of the sustainability of the pension system. You've done things backwards. You wanted to play on the legal age of the pension. You wanted to remove the incentives for pensions. And now you're wondering how you're going to increase the employment rate, and especially the employment rate of older workers. It is in this way that the transfer of pension expenditure to the sickness and disability sector will be avoided. Worse still, you have clearly postponed the debate on difficult jobs until later, when, in order to demonstrate good governance, it would have been necessary to work on all the points in order not only to have a new effective pension policy, but above all to bring about the accession of the population. If there is a major element in the success of pension reform, that is the one!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u85	Mr President, I did not intend to speak on this very technical project, since everything has already been said in committee. But I must reply to Mrs de Coster, who has pleaded for the magnificence of this government's pension policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u86	I didn't plead.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u87	Like the previous government, this government has reduced the pension rights of our fellow citizens by increasing career time without taking into account specific careers and eliminating similar periods. In doing so, the divider that will be applied to calculate the amount of pensions of our fellow citizens will be increased, resulting in a decrease in the average amount of pensions paid. If we add to this the index jump that applies to social beneficiaries, the abolition of tax subsidies for pensioners, etc., pensioners are losers, despite the application of some revalorisation thanks to the welfare envelope. You are adjusting the system to the means rather than adjusting the means to the system and the pension commitments that have been made. How should you have done that? This is reflected in the report of the experts on the future of our pensions. By developing solid alternative financing of our pensions, but you don't want it. By sharing more work time to have more assets, but you don't want it. To say that tomorrow's pension system will offer more pensions to our citizens is the opposite of the truth. You can say this with all the conviction that you are known – you need conviction in politics – but what you say is not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u88	Mr President, I have the happiness or the misfortune to meet Mrs Fonck and Mr Gilkinet in committee. I know their arguments by heart. Let me tell you that they're listening to each other. They repeat the same thing in plenary session to make themselves aware and to be able to justify their place in the press again tomorrow. No! I don't agree. I'm defending a completely different vision of pensions. Maybe we'll meet in 20 years, Mr. Gilkinet. Who knows! No, not in twenty years, I'm exaggerating! I won't be there anymore! In any case, I am convinced that the five new proposals that I am going to present to you now are in the right direction to sustain our pension system. The first amendment is the assimilation of non-activity periods for some members of the integrated police force. You know that the Constitutional Court had overturned special provisions that affected the retirement of certain police officers at a preferential age. It must be said that it was 54, 56 or 58 years old. Let me say that when we're 54, we're not old. If you already feel old at 54, it's very sad! Today, we are responding to the Court's judgment. It's pretty technical. Everyone can agree. Mr Cheron, 2,500 policemen were involved. A solution is found here to create periods of non-activity, while accounting for these periods for the calculation of early retirement. I would point out that this solution was found in full coordination and in agreement with the social partners. A second proposal is the restoration of the accumulation of a pension for physical incapacity with a replacement income. This follows a decision taken by the Di Rupo government. Many people then had to choose: either they had a replacement income or they opted for their pension. Making such a choice has confronted many people with problematic situations in terms of income. The social and economic impacts have been dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u89	Madam de Coster, you mentioned the Di Rupo government and you're right. The then Minister of Pensions was Mr. Van Quickenborne, liberal, just like you. This is indeed a deplorable step taken by the previous government, which was raised by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt through a parliamentary question to Minister Bacquelaine. Minister Bacquelaine agreed to reverse a decision. Like you, we look forward to the fact that there is a step backwards. You're attacking poor Mr. Di Rupo, who isn't here. He was the Prime Minister of this government, but I like to remind you that the Minister of Pensions was a Liberal, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u90	Today, thanks to the text that we are going to vote on, the error will be corrected. It will again be possible to have two sources of income for persons who are in receipt of an ex officio pension because they are no longer able to pursue their profession. As regards the cumulation of the age limit pension with professional income, these are also special categories, military personnel and persons from the public sector. The Constitutional Court had found it unconstitutional that the permissible limits on professional income were more favourable for persons on statutory retirement for age limits than for those on retirement for physical incapacity. Here, the government wanted to clarify its position and the reasons for this difference in treatment by redrafting an argument that allowed to return to the situation that prevailed before the Constitutional Court's decision. In terms of cumulation, we re-establish a level playing field between those who are employed and those who are pensioned for health reasons. Fourthly, it is a provision on guaranteed incomes for the elderly. The Act of 21 March 2001 provides that, apart from indexation, the amounts of the "well-being" envelope should be stabilised. Thus, a legal basis has been established to allow for a 2 per cent increase in guaranteed income for the elderly and thus compensate for the index effect. This is now being done and I would like to point out that in 2015, almost 2 million pensioners benefited from a valuation measure under the "well-being" envelope. That's not enough. This majority is truly committed to protecting the incomes of pensioners, particularly those with the lowest incomes. Under the previous government it was decided to put an end to the special regime enjoyed by civil aviation personnel. A transitional period had been established for persons over 55 years of age in 2011. Since then, there has been a problem of interpreting whether or not specific contributions to the sector are taken into account in the calculation of the pension. Through this project, the government states that the higher contributions paid are well taken into account even if they are no longer due since 2012. The measures submitted to you were decided in the framework of the social consultation before being examined by the government. Once again, the Council decided to support the decisions emanating from the social dialogue. The social partners are respected and are heard even if they do not like it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, I will already be talking to you about the second bill on...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u91	Mr Gilkinet asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u92	Mrs de Coster, the social partners are sometimes heard, but often they are not. And often they're not consulted. Tomorrow we'll discuss the tax shift. This is still an important measure for reducing social contributions. We therefore legislate without the opinion of the CNT; we sit very often on the views of the social partners. Sometimes you listen to them. That is the case here. In such cases, we rejoice, but do not make it a general rule, do not make it a glory! It's just normal!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u93	Let me stop at what I am presenting today! In this context, you acknowledge that the partners have been heard. Thank you for stressing this. I will speak directly on the issue of supplementary pensions. Thus, I will no longer have to speak in the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u94	Mr President, I am somewhat surprised by the procedure! We are now approaching the next project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u95	No! The free choice is left to the speakers. If you insist, I will ask Mrs de Coster to come back to speak on the next draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u96	That would make sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u97	It is not up to Members to decide!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u98	I disagree, sir! I still have the freedom to choose!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u99	What are you doing with the rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u100	But sir, the president said we could! You mustn't attack me, though!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u101	I'm not assaulting you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u102	Yes, I do! Be kind when you talk, it's the same price!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u103	Mr President, I ask for the floor for personal reasons. I'm not assaulting the co-worker. That's not my habit! She doesn't know me well and I have a lot of life skills. But I also have a little respect for this institution, and it is not the Members who go up to the gallery who decide to change the agenda. There is an agenda to be followed. I ask that this be the case. I said, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u104	Thank you, Mr. Frédéric. Madam de Coster, I would ask you to come back as we discuss the second project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u105	It will be a great pleasure since you ask so kindly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u106	Mr President, I will not be long, since the purpose of the agenda is not to start the whole debate on pension reform. Moreover, Parliament has had many times and will still have an opportunity to discuss it. I should like to remind Mrs Fonck that the annexes to the opinions of the social partners were submitted to the Social Affairs Committee last week. No doubt, you had gone away at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u108	It's possible. Anyway, it doesn't matter! If you had read the report, you would have seen that the opinions were communicated to that committee. It's all over again. Secondly, I will not go back to the somewhat demagogic discourse which tends to argue that pensioners would be the ill-loved of this government. I'm willing to challenge anyone to prove the opposite of the numbers I'm putting forward. And I do it on two grounds. This is first of all the wellness envelope. Of course, it is part of the law on the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, and it is normal to apply it. However, the previous 2013/2014 envelope represented EUR 250 million for pensioners. The 2015/2016 budget includes EUR 500 million, i.e. twice as much. The slightest intellectual honesty would be to recognize him, Mr. Laaouej. In addition, the tax shift is mainly aimed at reducing the burden on labour income. Everyone has always agreed on this. On the other hand, it is wrong to say that it will not benefit pensioners in any way. More than one million of them – that is, all those who earn more than 15 518 euros a year – will benefit from this measure. I don't know if you have to spit on that million pensioners like you do! Adding the tax shift and the welfare envelope, which relates to minimum pensions, results in a valuation for more than two million pensioners. That's the truth! It is also true that it is probably not enough because it is never enough, but it is the truth. Mrs Fonck, I understand the disagreement about the relevance of pension reform to the financial sustainability of the system. Yes, I note that there is a disagreement between Mrs Fonck and the Federal Office of the Plan, the Study Committee on Ageing, the OECD and the IMF. Look for the mistake... We have all the Christmas holidays to find out who's right! As regards the adjustment coefficient which Mrs Fonck referred to in relation to periods of non-activity, I assume: there was no adjustment coefficient for these periods taken into account in the career period for the calculation of the pension. I believe that there must be a difference between actual and unworked work periods in this country. Otherwise, we'll walk on the head! So I take that point. Finally, Ms. Temmerman and others spoke of heavy trades. I am sometimes a little surprised when I am asked to respect social consultation and then, in the case of heavy trades, it is said that I should have decided on my own.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u109	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u110	What are we doing right now? The issue of heavy trades is referred to social consultation within the framework of the National Pension Committee. I've been a minister for a little over a year, I couldn't have done it in the years 2000-2010. It is now that we are working on it, the work has begun, this discussion is under way, and the social partners have clearly understood the value of finding a solution with regard to heavy trades.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u111	Mr President, the last word is for parliamentarians. This is also reflected in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Minister, first of all – since I was off the microphone earlier – I take note of the opinion of the social partners. But Mrs de Coster of your party said that this text was the subject of an agreement by all the social partners. Let me refer you back to this report, since three out of four trade unions did not agree. If I had been out before the end of the committee, and I say it because I was off the microphone earlier, it was because I was in the Conference of Presidents to try constructively to help the government save the bet. It is sometimes necessary to recall certain obvious facts. You may not agree with this, but Mr. Vuye, yesterday in the gallery, welcomed this and recalled that it was the opposition that saved the government's position in the last ten days. Then you're talking about the IMF, the Plan Bureau, the Study Committee on Aging. But it was your government that told them that you were going to bring 1,350,000 foreigners by 2060 and put them to work on the first day. These are the elements you provided for the report of the Aging Review Committee. I think it's completely next to the plate. You put this forward, supposedly it will allow you to ensure the sustainability of pensions. This obviously does not hold the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1502/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1502/4) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u116	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of supplementary pensions was well known. The legislation that was once introduced to make these supplementary pensions more popular clashed with the reality of real market interest rates, threatening to collapse the whole system. Perhaps everyone agreed on that. The Minister therefore asked the social partners what solution they could suggest to this pressing problem. After some hesitation, the social dialogue resulted in an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u118	Our attitude to social dialogue is very clear. This is a particularly interesting and interesting element in any political discussion. After all, it is the social partners who have an expertise in the field that we may not have from time to time. That is why we always look at such agreements in a positive way, without necessarily feeling the slave to ourselves. Within the government, it was agreed that the Minister would implement that social agreement carefully. There is therefore no point in giving detailed criticism of this agreement here today. The political will to implement that agreement has been expressed and we do not wish to dispute it here. We believe that the Minister has done a good job in the implementation of that social agreement and has done the work he was expected to do. Rather than losing me in detail, I would like to point out that this is another very important step in the long process of making our pension system fit again for the future. The IMF has, moreover, made a positive assessment of our policy in this week's review. The second pillar undoubtedly meets a great demand from the public. In 2004, 40% of employees were members of some form of supplementary pension. In the meantime, this has risen to 75%. It is the government's ambition to increase that number even further. Against this background, it is therefore necessary for an additional pension scheme to ensure that users are the end-users of such schemes who wish to see their first pillar supplemented by a guaranteed but realistic guarantee of return. The second pillar is a necessary element for our group in the development of a fully-fledged and viable future pension system. Ivan Van de Cloot and other people who say sensible things about pensions always stress that a mixed system has a lot of advantages over a system based either on repartition or on capitalization. The first pillar, which is based on repartition, we wish to preserve. The measures taken earlier this year have also strengthened this first pillar for the future. The first pillar, of course, has the problem that the replacement rate is always falling very rapidly from a certain income level. We must not forget that people who contribute to maintaining our social system must also want to contribute to that solidarity mechanism that is so specifically built into that first pillar. We want and must avoid that people, when they retire, have too low a pension compared to their last salary and that they would question the whole system as such. That is why we want to place the emphasis on the second pillar, which offers the possibility of being able to complement the existing first pillar in a flexible way and applied to the specific situations of everyone, also on the basis of capitalization. Besides, Minister, the work is not done in this respect. It is pointed out that the aim of the Supplementary Pensions Act is, of course, to supplement the pension. Studies have recently been published which indicate that in many cases the additional character is quite poor. It must be our ambition, therefore, a stable and reliable system of the utmost importance that it would grow in the future. I have also understood from the debates in committee that you will take further initiatives on this matter. In view of the agenda that awaits us, I would like to make three points. That is the conclusion: we are taking a very important step in the area of supplementary pensions, but it is certainly not the last step for us. In committee, you yourself indicated that, with regard to your question on the transparency of the cost structure of insurance, no agreement was reached between the social partners or at least no reply was received. You did not include this in the draft law. That is the logic of the agreements made. We have no problem with this in itself, although transparency must of course be placed on the political board in 2016. In fact, you said in committee that you are a party asking to hold hearings in the first place. Of course, they have to lead to something. Our group will see to it that these hearings take place, because the problem plays an extremely important role in the overall construction of a decent supplementary pension system. If we have no idea of the cost structure of the person responsible for providing the benefit, this will certainly damage the trust of the insured. A second element is technical and much more difficult, but we must not forget it. Countries such as the Netherlands and Denmark have raised a huge amount of money thanks to pension funds, which can help to support meaningful investments in the real economy, for example in SMEs or larger initiatives. Our pension system means that we do not have such funds to date, but there are reasons for that. The insurance sector is, of course, bound by a series of rules which mean that they can actually contribute little to the real economy and are bound by financing largely based on long-term government bonds. There too, we must have ambition. Unfortunately, this ambition may not be achieved through social dialogue. If the opposite turns out to be true, the better. As politicians, we must have the ambition to link the theme of supplementary pensions to the possibility of seeing funds grow. They can play an important role in the real economy, for example with a view to anchoring employment. Mr President, I would like to conclude with a small comment. When we ask for people's efforts on pension schemes to make our system sound for the future, we must be careful not to bring too many exceptions into the system. Today there is a proliferation of exceptions. We must ensure that this matter is brought to a close in a cautious but decisive manner. It seems symbolic, but I hope that in future we will also be able to eliminate the exception that is now maintained for professional sportsmen and women, who seem to have reached the age of 35. Our group wonders whether such exceptions can be justified and whether they undermine the credibility of the overall operation we are now working on here and there. In short, our group will fully and enthusiastically support this draft, albeit 2016 will be a year with a lot of homework in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u119	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, and the Minister of Pensions in particular, as you know, for my group, ensuring a high level of purchasing power for all citizens is a major concern. We defend the maintenance of a functioning, fair and accessible first pillar of pensions. This pillar is the true guarantor of our solidarity system. My colleague from the MR had the opportunity to paint the whole history of pension policy in the previous point. Today, we are forced to note that your obsession is to reduce the means of doing so. You are constantly denouncing an "organized band" disinformation campaign against this policy. Sometimes we could call you Calimero, because it's repetitive. Again this morning, you were spreading in the press to deny a purely demagogic speech. As you can see, the tax shift and the welfare envelope raise the purchasing power of pensioners in general. You said earlier that for a few hundred thousand pensioners there is a valuation, but you were only talking about one part. We must also talk about the other aspects. Your presentation is not fair. As you often say, the truth has its rights. How can you say that when everyone knows that your pension reform has an essentially budgetary objective? The primary goal of your reform is simple: to achieve savings. Let us take the well-being envelope, which, I would remind you, is a socialist initiative. You confirmed it a moment ago and I thank you for your honesty in that regard. The previous government, of which your party was a member, made a commitment to give 100% of the welfare envelope in 2015. You have partially fulfilled – I would be tempted to say, largely – this commitment, since you have nevertheless reduced this envelope on pensioners' backs by several tens of millions, with the reform of the state as a pretext.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u120	Thanks to this well-being package and the work of the social partners, which I stress, half a billion euros has thus enabled certain pensions to be raised by up to 2%. It's important. For once, you have applied – I would be tempted to say – strictly this agreement of the social partners. Here I salute your positive attitude, once it is not customary. But you fail to say that all pensions should have increased by 2% if the indexation had been applied. However, with your index jump, all pensioners lost 2% of their purchasing power. Do not tell me that this measure has been taken to promote competitiveness. You know that even in terms of savings, the impact of this index jump on pensions is negative. Those who should have seen their pension increase by 4% due to the cumulative effect of indexation and the welfare envelope saw it increase by only 2% thanks to the welfare envelope. And those who should have seen their pension increase by 2% saw her stagnating to 0%. It is true that pensions have been revalued, but it is because of the welfare envelope and not because of indexation. In doing so, a number of pensioners generally lose money while others remain the same. That is the reality. You say you did more than the previous government for pensions. That's not true. You're not fooling anyone. Perhaps you convince your entourage and your supporters, but you don't convince everyone! I come to some tax measures from your shift tax. Certain tax measures will certainly benefit some pensioners. But as you yourself have recognized, they will benefit only 25% of them who receive the highest pensions. We're happy for them! On the other hand, all pensioners will have to bear your negative measures, such as the increase in VAT on electricity and other taxes and excise duties. In fact, 25% of pensioners who receive the highest pensions will have a small gain, but 100% of pensioners will have to pay your new taxes. I had to say a few global elements, since my colleague had dealt with them in the previous draft. Let's turn now to supplementary pensions. To the extent that it improves purchasing power, my group supports the second pension pillar. However, it must have essential characteristics. First, it must first be complementary to a strong first pension pillar. The legal pension, which guarantees our solidarity system, must remain effective and guarantee a good level of purchasing power to our pensioners. The legal pension must remain fair and accessible. Contrary to what you are doing, minister, it is necessary to allow those who wish to take up their pensions at a decent age. It is unfair to want to force our fellow citizens, including those in heavy jobs, to work until exhaustion sometimes. Secondly, the second pillar must be attractive. Indeed, workers who save for their pensions should not end up losing purchasing power. Therefore, Minister, it is important to ensure that yields in the second pillar cover price inflation. If you don't, you're kind of robbing those workers. In this regard, I welcome the fact that a guaranteed rate is maintained. I also had the opportunity to say so in committee. At one point, there was great concern that there would be no longer this guaranteed rate. However, the guaranteed rate should not be confused with the rate provided by the organization under pension plans. You insisted on that difference. It's important to remind him. It is clear that this guaranteed rate influences the rates negotiated under pension plans. Thirdly, the second pillar of the pension must be transparent. Minister, let me remind you that we are talking about savings from our workers, which represent a reserve of tens of billions of euros. [[This may not be the case in other countries, but it still represents large sums of money in our second pillar.]] This is therefore a considerable amount of money in the hands of essentially private bodies which benefit from "public" subsidies, i.e. reduced taxes and social contributions. At a time when the government is attacking statutory pension rights and is talking about generalising the second pillar, it is essential that exemplary transparency be introduced in the area of supplementary pensions, both in terms of the type of investment and the profits that are made. In particular, given the lack of transparency and sometimes the lack of mobility - one company and one worker do not necessarily move from one organization to another offering higher rates - there is limited competition. The guaranteed rate finally becomes the reference rate for pension plans. Mr Minister, I am pleased to hear you say in committee that you were in favour of a debate on transparency. I hope that we can quickly achieve concrete measures, even if, once again, you take the problem backwards. Transparency would have been necessary and, on the basis of that transparency, consideration should have been given to the guaranteed rates that could reasonably be set. You put pressure to review these guaranteed rates and only then you talked about transparency. Finally, the second pillar must be socially just. However, a recent report by the Court of Auditors makes it clear that supplementary pensions do not play their social role. Indeed, the favourable contribution scheme for supplementary pensions costs almost 900 million per year from the social security budget and it appears that the objective of ensuring a sufficient level of pension for a maximum number of workers is not achieved. Reserves are very unevenly distributed and the loss of earnings for social security is mostly granted to a minority of people who benefit from high incomes and therefore generally already have a good pension. In other words, reductions in social contributions benefit those with high incomes. This injustice must be brought to an end and what is denounced by the Court of Auditors must be dealt with quickly and in depth. I come to the agreement of the social partners. It must be said that the context in which the government set up social consultation in this area was not clear. Mr Minister, you said that if the social partners were unable to agree on a reduction in the guaranteed rate, you would be forced to take on your responsibilities by making proposals in response to Assuralia's request. The objective would have been to reduce guaranteed performance. The rate of 0.4 per cent was mentioned, as was in some cases the rate of 0 per cent. This would have resulted in a drastic reduction in some supplementary pensions. The Socialists refused it at the time; you considered it. By doing so, you put the knife under the throat of the unions: either they accept Assuralia's request, or they will get nothing. This is not the way social consultation is organised. Despite the unbalanced climate that you and your government in general are setting up, the social partners have demonstrated their sense of responsibility and have been able to reach a compromise on both the supplementary pensions and others. With regard to the implementation of the agreement, I have heard the Prime Minister and you yourself say that it will be fully implemented. I was glad! Today, it must be noted that the government has once again betrayed its promise, because you have decided - as in the case of pre-pensions - to rewrite the agreement, to improve it, on the basis of informal discussions and not on the basis of a new agreement by the social partners. Indeed, even though they have made it clear that they want the law to be amended only in the way they proposed, you have unilaterally chosen to remove the possibility of providing future services. This ban is, in our view, an intolerable violation of the compromise reached by the partners. This is a new interference by the government with social dialogue and the right to collective bargaining, although you are repeating your desire to respect our tradition in this area. You've said that again lately. We have offered you the opportunity to respect the consultation by proposing amendments to delete your additions. You simply rejected them. So you didn't let any more doubt arise. That's too bad. The agreement of the social partners did not satisfy you. That's why you decided to change it. No, you are definitely not following the Belgian model of social consultation. In conclusion, we support a second pillar of solidarity, solid and transparent pension. At this stage, these social imperatives are not met. Therefore, the lack of transparency creates serious risks for our workers' economies. We therefore need to improve this second pension pillar and we welcome the fact that the social partners were able to bring a first stone to the table unanimously. Given the reasons mentioned earlier, we will not be able to support the bill before us; we will abstain from it, as we have had the opportunity to do in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u121	Mr. Speaker, I will speak on the second supplementary pension bill. The question of the sustainability of supplementary pensions is on the table of the current government, as in the previous one. We know that, since the last financial crisis, the latest inter-market interest rates have been falling steadily and have put pressure on insurers in relation to the guarantee provided for this type of product. It has been three years since insurers, employers and workers have been trying to find a solution that guarantees a rate of return both to make this product attractive enough and to try to avoid creating a bubble and make the second pillar reliable as to its role of additional purchasing power. The minister again let the social workers work. It took some time, but an agreement was reached that would guarantee the sustainability of the system. Thus, from 1 January 2016, the rate of return will correspond to a percentage: 65% for the 2016-2017 period of the average on 1 June over the last 24 months of the Belgian OLO to 10 years, rounded to the nearest 0.25 %. This percentage will increase to 75% for the 2018-2019 period and to 85% for the following period as we will have a guaranteed rate of return that will be mandatory between a minimum threshold of 1.75% and a maximum ceiling of 3.75%. In order to ensure that the supplementary pension premium is received at the time of statutory retirement and to keep people at work for the longest time, it will now be prohibited to provide contractual conditions allowing the insured to receive the amount of his supplementary pension before the statutory retirement age. However, a transitional period has been set for persons on the eve of applying for their supplementary pension, i.e. 60 years if the member is 58 years of age or older in 2016, 61 if he is 57 years of age or older in 2016, 62 if he is 56 years of age or older in 2016 and 63 if he is 55 years of age or older in 2016. Finally, dormant members who lose their death insurance or no longer benefit from it when they leave their reserves with the employer's pension agency they leave, will now be able to opt for death insurance corresponding to the amount of reserves acquired. They will have one year to decide on the matter. As you will understand, this project is the result of a compromise which, by definition, meets the interests of the majority of stakeholders. We can also support it. In conclusion, we are aware that further reforms must complement the reform of our pension system. Rome did not take place in one day; given its scale, this reform will not be. I think the projects we've just talked about today are extra stones to the building. My group and I will support the government for this new stage in this important project, such as pensions. We are counting on the Minister to carry out the remainder of this redesign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u122	Mr President, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week in the Committee on Social Affairs we were once again able to ratify an agreement between the social partners, an agreement which the government had said would be fully implemented. In doing so, we hope, like the social partners, that the support and practice for these supplementary pensions can also be a bit more secure and more secure. Minister, the most positive aspect of this agreement is that the barriers to further generalisation of supplementary pensions are now being removed. As far as the guarantee of return is concerned, employers are ultimately called upon if the return that is legally anchored would not be achieved. It is not the insurance companies, it is the employers, but it is the contracts between insurance companies or pension funds and employers, and this return must be guaranteed. So it also means that the risks to employers, which are not always easy to estimate, are now being eliminated. We hope that this will also provide an impetus for further generalisation. I would like to refer to Pieter Timmermans, who said in an opinion document that this agreement is an important step towards generalisation, in this case a democratisation of the second pillar of pensions, a supplementary pension for every employee in the private sector. The number of employees with a supplementary pension, currently a small three-quarters of them, is increasing. As far as we are concerned, however, that is still a quarter too little. In that sense, Minister, I believe it is important that further efforts are made to achieve a further generalisation. However, generalisation alone is not a sufficient objective. There are also serious differences in the amounts built up on average in the supplementary pension. This supplementary pension must mean an additional pension in addition to a guaranteed statutory pension which must also be sufficient. The huge differences between the people who build up these amounts remain an important focus. This is also apparent from the average amounts of total reserves, active and dormant. For all members, this is around EUR 13 000, although reserves are still under construction. However, in some sectors these accumulated amounts are very limited. I would also like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report that we received two weeks ago. That report clearly states that the tax or social benefit measures, by means of the contributions to be paid to the supplementary pension payments, i.e. 8.5 % and 1.5 % for those over 30 000 euros, create a reverse effect. After all, there are rather low amounts to be paid by a limited number of people who benefit from supplementary pensions. I believe that we should also take this issue with us. In my view, it will remain necessary to monitor whether our supplementary pensions will also be levelled in addition to generalisation. I think it is important to keep an eye on this aspect. Another important element is the fact that at the end of next year people will also have access to the supplementary pension database, the DB2P. People there will be able to clearly see at any time how much they have built up. It will also be surprising for some people to see how little that is. The same applies to the statutory pension. Often people are surprised by the result and this despite the efforts that people have to make. Transparency with regard to employees and self-employed persons about their supplementary pension will be high in this sense, and it will also give some insight into the amounts. I think it is important that we give them this insight. There's also a reinforcement for the sleepers. They will be given the opportunity to provide compensation for their dormant reserve and will also be given clarity about their compensation in the event of death. There is another aspect of transparency. In addition to the clarity for the enjoyer, through clear texts in Dutch and French in which no professional jargon is used, there will also be transparency regarding, among other things, insurance costs. As you know, at the time when the question was asked about a return guarantee adjustment, we asked in this plenary for transparency on the costs and accumulated reserves of the past. We have never been able to get those figures. Minister, we are counting on you to discuss supplementary pensions at a hearing. We need to talk about the cost efficiency and transparency of insurance companies and funds. We are happy to support this measure, but we are also counting on further steps next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u123	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, every pensioner in our country is entitled to a pension, but above all to a pension that prevents poverty and makes it possible to live comfortably. After a long career, a pension is a full income that must guarantee the maintenance of purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, the first pillar, the legal pension, remains the most important thing for us. This is at the heart of the Belgian pension system and we want to keep it that way. It is the responsibility of the government to safeguard, strengthen, strengthen the first pillar and thus provide security for pensioners. In our system we also have the supplementary pension. That's just a supplement to the statutory pension. It is a welcome addition to the legal pension and it is also necessary for many pensioners not to fall into poverty. But, ladies and gentlemen, the supplementary pension is still not accessible to everyone. In fact, we want the supplementary pension to become a full legal pension in the future, so that it is accessible to everyone and we have a mixed original statutory pension and a legally supplementary pension. But that's the future, we need to see what's on the shelf today. The role of such a supplementary pension is this. It certainly has to meet a number of conditions. First of all, it must be transparent, socially equitable, financially attractive compared to other financial products, and it must be prudent and prudent to use resources that are held back from wages by employers and employees. For the sake of clarity, we are very pleased that the government has allowed social dialogue to take place in full. We have always hammered it and asked to do so. The government has undertaken to fully respect the social agreement reached in this regard. Together with my fellow Members, however, we must note, as Mr Daerden has just explained, that a number of things in this proposal are not entirely in line with what the social partners had agreed. The text is there, but allow me to make a few comments on what we will decide here. First of all, Minister, there is your participation in the social dialogue. Before the social dialogue, you have actually already told the social partners that there should be a reduction in returns, without transparency. I asked you in committee to hold hearings with the insurers in advance, so that we could have a proper look at the problem, so that we could check what the insurers say about their returns, so that we could have the right figures. You refused to do so, and you immediately told the social partners that there was a need for a reduction in the rate of return. You could have made the opposite choice: you could have provided transparency first, with the figures on the table, and then allowed the social partners to negotiate. You didn't do that. In this way, of course, you have taken the side of the insurers. In other words, without the figures on the table, you agree with the insurers and add that there is a problem and that the social partners need to find a solution. If the social partners do not find a solution, you will, you say, propose the solution. In other words, there will be a reduction in the rate of return anyway. A second issue is financial attractiveness. That's also a condition. There is now a risk that the supplementary pension will lose its attractiveness to employees and employers. There is a risk that future interest rates will be lower than the average evolution of wages. This means that employees and employers will probably think twice before paying money for the supplementary pension. In committee, you said that the market will continue to play and that the insurers will deal with this. However, our experience is that this is quite difficult, since you set a minimum, but also a maximum. We believe that this will prevent the market from playing at 100%. In addition, the question arises as to whether the financial attractiveness will continue if we ever find ourselves in a different economic context than the current one. In a third point, I am discussing social justice. I said earlier that supplementary pensions should be accessible to everyone. That is not the case today. Moreover, it has been found that those who can bring more into the system, i.e. those with the highest incomes, also achieve the highest returns. The government supports this percentage. This means that millions of euros of public money go to the highest supplementary pensions and that the percentage goes much less to the lowest pensions. The previous speakers, including Mrs Becq and Mr Daerden, have already referred to the Court of Auditors' report. I would like to make it clear once again what the Court of Auditors is putting forward in its 2015 Book on Social Security. I quote literally: "The system has been extended in recent years, but payments for supplementary pensions are unevenly distributed among employees and offer only a minority a meaningful supplementary pension. (...) The policy measure, which represents a cost for the social security of employees in the form of a revenue reduction of EUR 900 million per year, does not therefore achieve its main objective, namely to ensure that as many workers as possible will receive a sufficiently high pension." There's a reverse effect. Those who already have a high statutory pension also have a high supplementary pension. If you have a low statutory pension, you have a very small supplementary pension. For that system, we absolutely need to find another solution. I was hoping you'd have a project before that. You promised to look into that in the future. You could have done that together with the presentation of this legislation. The pressure on a sustainable future for supplementary pensions is considerably increased. First, the minimum return was reduced from 3.25 % to 1.75 %. Then the National Bank announced to us at that time in the committee that it would want to take further action on the minimum return. The law has not yet been adopted, which may happen soon, or the National Bank already says, at the request of the insurers, that it really wants to reduce that return. I have not really received an answer to my questions in committee, Minister. What will you do? Will you follow the advice of the National Bank to make a further reduction to 1.50 %? Then the past work here and the efforts of the social partners will no longer make any sense at all. I would therefore like to hear from you clearly that you will not take the advice of the National Bank, because in that way you understand this very well. You are actually putting a bomb under the social dialogue. The relevant legislation has not yet been adopted and what was an agreement among the social partners would already be undermined. Minister, I have just spoken about transparency. I believe that transparency in the cost structure of insurers is absolutely essential. I have tabled an amendment in committee, together with Mr Daerden, and I will retable it here. With that amendment, we are simply asking for a separate report to be submitted to the FSMA. That does not undermine the social agreement, Minister. It is true that the social partners did not talk about transparency, although there was a question. There is a clear demand for it from Parliament and not only from the opposition. There were questions just now from Mr De Roover, from Mrs Becq and certainly from the opposition. All we're asking for is a report to the FSMA. I therefore hope that the majority of my fellow Members will absolutely support the amendment on this subject, so that we can have transparency. If you want to be credible, Minister, then there must be transparency. No one can object to that. If it is true that insurers have so many problems with the returns, let us look at those returns and let us also look at what has happened in the past. What happened to the returns in the past? How is it that we are now, so to speak, short? I believe that these matters should be put on the table, and I really hope that the majority of my fellow Members who are in favour of this transparency will support our amendment. Minister, we will abstain in the vote on this draft bill unless the amendment is approved. We will abstain for three reasons. Firstly, because social dialogue is not fully respected. Secondly, we are abstaining, because you turned things around, by not opting for transparency and by giving the social partners, before there was transparency, the task of reducing returns. Thirdly, we are abstaining because you have perhaps changed your mind in committee, and you have also refused to support the amendment on transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u124	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is a translation of an agreement by the social partners. It's important, it's too often the case. As other colleagues have said, it is not perfectly transcribed, but in broad terms, yes! You have to admit it. This must not prevent us from being critical of its content and from taking proper account of the circumstances in which it was adopted, first by the government and then by the Social Affairs Committee before it is adopted in this plenary session. Its context is the pressure of insurers not to guarantee, in the future, the same rates as those to which they had committed in the past, as they disregarded the profits of the time, when the rates, artificially, were particularly high. What have become of these benefits beyond the guaranteed rates? We don't know. What we know is that the government has accepted this pressure from insurers to lower rates. The social partners agreed on this, but some of them were at the foot of the wall, you will admit. I would like to go back to the philosophy of our future pension model. You, Mr. Bacquelaine, like your predecessor, Mr. Van Quickenborne, and like the previous government, are a great supporter of the second pillar of pension, which can, at the level of some companies, provide a substantial pension supplement to workers. However, account must be taken of access to this second pillar of the pension and of the distribution of the financial reserves that are built up in this framework. Many workers do not have access to it today: the whole non-market sector, all temporary workers, the whole retail sector. A very large majority of women do not have access to it and the distribution of this capital is too unequal. The Court of Auditors' recent report, Cahier 2015 on social security, states that "20% of the cost of this policy, about 170 million euros, in the form of reductions in contributions, are devoted exclusively to ensuring a high pension supplement to a minority of workers (0.5%)". Twenty per cent of the costs per 0.5 per cent of workers. Is it not urgent to restore some form of equality in access to this supplementary pension system? This is a debate that we need to have as a matter of urgency. Mr. Van Biesen, the president of the Court of Auditors sub-committee, is not present, but yesterday I saw that he was back and I was glad about it. We have asked, and will ask again, for the Court of Auditors to present this report in the Court of Auditors sub-committee or in the Social Affairs Committee. I will ask you, Minister of Pensions, to consider with you the reforms necessary to reduce this inequality. This fundamental inequality in the current system of the second pension pillar is the reason why we are not as fervent supporters of it as you are. We do not want a shift in our social security system towards a system that is a little more private, less egalitarian, less efficient, and also costly, which is too little highlighted. That is why we are cautious about this system. A second aspect that I have addressed with you and which I regularly try to highlight is that these pension funds manage important capital, which is workers' money. This money, like the capital of our citizens' savings accounts, should contribute more to the support of our economy, to the creation of jobs, to the development of new economic sectors, to the necessary energy transition, creating savings and jobs. Today, pension funds often put pressure on entrepreneurs for very high rates of return and dividends in the short term, to the detriment of employment. The paradox is that workers' money pushes to dismiss workers. As environmentalists, we are asking, with the amendment that my colleague Mrs Evita Willaert and I tabled, for more transparency on the investments made by pension funds: the duration of investment, the sectors in which these investments are made, the employment generated by these investments. This is a necessary step to achieve what we are asking for as environmentalists: a better orientation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u125	I never understood why, when Ecolo was in the Walloon government, you did not accept the proposal that we had put forward for pension funds to be marked by sustainable development criteria. However, it was a fine proposal, which Mr. Michel Daerden had not wanted. This proposal has had a long history. I have never understood your double speech, which differs when you are in the opposition and when you are in the majority. Do a search about it and then explain it to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u126	Mr Miller, I will do a research with interest, we will be able to discuss it after my speech, which will no longer be very long. I understood that the issue of financial regulation was primarily federal. I don't know what pension funds you're talking about. Maybe it's about public pension funds. But I confirm to you that structurally these are proposals that we have tabled since several legislatures. At the risk of getting tired of my colleagues, I intervene very regularly, when I hold a bone, I don't let it go. As Liberals, you should pay attention to this concern that money should be used well in support of the economy. One of the criteria is the duration of the investments. Investors invest, but entrepreneurs need some stability in capital, you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u127	With regard to what Mr Gilkinet has just said, as the Minister of Finance had pointed out, money on savings accounts does not simply sleep on savings accounts, but allows banks to lend to businesses. And the tax shelter option that we have just developed helps businesses, especially start-ups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u128	Whenever this money is used for loans, whether mortgages or business loans, I welcome it. We are trying to go further in this direction. But before you came to this Parliament, this money, in the big Belgian banks, at Dexia's Fortis, was used for uncontrolled expansion, uncontrolled investment in financial markets. And then we called the state as security. We want to avoid it in a prudential way, without new costs and in a positive way to further support our economy. It is a stronger will for guidance not to leave the financial market without beacons and make new mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u129	I agree with you all the more that, in a previous life, I also worked in the field of finance and had to fight against banks to finance SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u130	I have no doubt that we can have a convergence of views on the subject, which I would like to stress. I encourage you, Mr Piedboeuf, to support the amendment which we have tabled and which must be on your benches. It must have been dropped off at 4:30. The aim of this amendment is, first and foremost, to create more transparency. This, in our view, is a step towards a stronger orientation of the investments made with this money from the workers. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister for Pensions said that 25 billion euros were involved. I would now like to return to two more specific points which have taken us into account in the discussion. Thus, linking the benefit of the pension from the second pillar to the pension age could be problematic if there were not, in the future discussion on heavy trades, the ability of workers who have had heavy work to have an early pension, if there was not a simultaneous pension of the first pillar and the supplementary pension in the form of capital or pension under the second pillar. It is indeed important that this parallelism be fully assured. In this regard, you have made commitments, which I would also like to stress. On the other hand, we did not agree with you in the discussion, particularly foresight, on the potential part-time pension hypothetical. You believe that the latter – I am very disappointed – can start at the time of the minimum pension age, so we think that this could be anticipated in a form of sharing working time among older, tired workers who want to prepare their pensions, do something else and young people who only want to start working. In this context, it would be logical to work on the same terms in both the second and the first pillars. There is still much work to be done on pensions. I am not going to reopen the debate on the various reforms that we have challenged during and under the previous legislature. In any case, the second pillar cannot be the basis of your pension policy. Sometimes I feel like this temptation is present when I listen to you. This second pillar can only be a complement, and there is a need to improve transparency, equal access and guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u131	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first welcome the agreement of the Group of Ten. Let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar! In relation to the debates we have conducted in committee, you know that in addition to the general comments, I have asked a whole series of technical questions which were not intended to bother you. This was an important issue in relation to the interpretation of this law; it is of course not, through the three pages of the agreement of the social partners, to develop all the technical elements. I find it unfortunate that, for the vast majority of the technical and interpretation questions I have addressed to you, you have referred me to the agreed agreement with the social partners. We will therefore not have the necessary clarification as to the interpretation of this law, and we may soon have to deal with a number of problems. It is a text that makes it possible to find a solution but, at the same time, let us not forget that this bill concerns millions of people - all those who have a supplementary pension - and that these millions of people will be significantly affected. We must be able to say it clearly. I have two concerns about this text. My first concern concerns the link between the release of benefits from the second pillar and the legal pension age. This is not included in the initial agreement of the social partners, and I am referring here to the Group of Ten of October 2015. It was, on the other hand, included in the government agreement. Even though the Group of Ten was not asking for anything in mid-October, the government demanded it. Discussions were then held with the social partners on the transitional measures. That being said, at the level of the government, you wanted to link the release of the second pillar benefits with the legal pension age and you did not answer the very concrete and precise questions that will arise in the context of the financial contracts that the future beneficiaries of a second pillar pension have concluded on the basis of the capital they were hoping to withdraw from the second pillar. In particular, I am referring to advances or pledges. Take, for example, mortgages. Some people signed financial contracts under mortgages that clearly engaged them with capital that would be released at age 60. That will no longer be the case today. In my view, this clearly raises questions for many contracts. The example of mortgages is very clear, but there are a whole range of other types of contracts that can be affected in the same way. My second concern concerns the rent. Minister, you have absolutely nothing to do with this. You will tell me that this concerns the social partners, but you could have taken up the question of rent yourself. What, however, is happening today with regard to rent, without wishing to enter the plenary session into the complexity of the matter? However, with regard to the minimum conditions for the conversion of capital into rent imposed by the Supplementary Pensions Act and its implementing order, it should be recalled that this is no longer guaranteed by insurers. So, in practice, all the beneficiaries who chose the pension are, of course, now in a state of uncertainty. He would have been responsible for making progress in this area. You know, Minister, that it is not in the context of discussions with the social partners that this should be undertaken. However, in view of the fact that so many people are directly involved in the question of the pension, it seems to me essential that it be resolved as well. Other questions remain unanswered. I can agree with several opposition colleagues as well as the majority on the need for transparency, which you have also mentioned – and I hope that you will honour your commitment, Minister – in the insurance sector and in the area of reserves set up for pension funds. However, many questions remain pending. I hope that in this area we will be able to discuss it, not in ten years' time, but in the very next few months. As a result of this bill and with your changes to guaranteed rates and contracts, I hope that objective information can be provided to beneficiaries and future pensioners. In addition, pension organizations will have to be ready by 1 January to manage and calculate the vertical method, but also – and this is even more complicated – the horizontal. If they are not, you will experience new difficulties. In conclusion, it is a pity that you refused to move forward – even if you preserved the fullness of the agreement of the social partners – on a matter that was not planned, but on which the government and parliament could have made progress in committee. I'm talking about lowering the age of affiliation to 21. Indeed, if you want to consolidate the second pillar of pensions, where you want to work on the exit age, it would have been necessary to take into account the entire working life and, therefore, to reflect on this lowering. You know that a European directive, 2014/50, which must be transposed by 21 May 2018 at the latest, will raise the age of affiliation in Belgium from 25 to 21 years. You replied that you agreed with me but that it would be decided or not later. It's a missed opportunity. I am resubmitting an amendment to reduce the age of affiliation. While strengthening the first pillar is also crucial, it is also important to strengthen sectors that today cannot have a second pillar, such as non-marketing or timber. We're gonna have to work on this. We cannot both promote the second pillar and remain blind to the difficulties of certain sectors which cannot today and which cannot tomorrow benefit from a second pillar. If this second pillar is to be made more just and democratic, it will also be necessary to assume and take charge of these sectors. For the rest, I refer you to the committee report which is very comprehensive on all the technical and interpretive elements that I have highlighted and to which the minister has not replied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u132	First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who took an active part in this draft transposition of the agreement of the Group of 10. The debate has been constructive and it is not in the government's intention to consider this project as coming to the conclusion of the debate on supplementary pensions. Let's be clear! It has always been a question of transcribing the agreement of the Group of 10. Sometimes there is a certain contradiction in telling me that it is absolutely necessary to respect the agreement of the Group of 10 but that there are no other elements that are not in the agreement of the Group of 10. I mean it! We must be a little more patient and consider that the debate is not over. We will continue the debate on supplementary pensions in the coming weeks and months. It is necessary to ensure that there is more democratisation and a greater extent of supplementary pensions in order to strengthen the whole scheme and ensure that the purchasing power of pensioners can increase in the future. As far as Frédéric Daerden's question is concerned, I will not go back to his introduction. He had already responded to the previous project. Regardless of the pension project, there is some systematic opposition to a number of elements that have nothing to do with the project. Mr Daerden, it should be recalled that it is not 25% of pensioners who are affected by the tax shift, but much more than that, since it is more than one million. I have the figures in support and I will provide them in detail. These figures come from the official services of the pension sector. It is important that you have them to perfect your knowledge which is from time to time deficient. I can understand that given the technicality of the file. When you invoke the "well-being" envelope, I recall what I said earlier: this envelope existed before, we doubled it as regards the impact on the lowest and oldest pensions. We've gone from 250 million to 500 million. I will not expand on this; I have repeated it several times. Mr De Roover, Mrs Becq, I can agree with some Members' proposal to organise hearings on the transparency of supplementary pensions in the near future. I am obviously ready to open this discussion. I share the opinion of the Court of Auditors that supplementary pensions do not reach enough people and that the amount involved is not yet significant enough. I would point out that all that concerns social security contribution rates concerns the Minister for Employment and the Economy. The tax aspect of supplementary pensions also concerns our colleague, the Minister of Finance. This set of elements making a supplementary pension attractive must be effectively discussed in order to ensure that workers find an interest in entering the system, but that it is financially sustainable for the community. This is an important debate which certainly requires further developments in the future. Mr Gilkinet, the link between the age of the supplementary pension and the age of the legal pension: obviously, when we discuss the heavy trades and allow people to leave early to the early pension according to their heavy occupation, they also receive their pension earlier. That's normal. This is not the legal pension age of 65, 66 or 67, it is the age at which one can retire. Therefore, a person engaged in a heavy occupation recognized as such will be able to leave earlier and will also have the opportunity to take advantage of his supplementary pension earlier. As far as compliance with contracts is concerned, Mrs Fonck, advances and pledges, I understand your technically interesting questions, but they are set out in the explanatory memorandum, from page 33 to page 38. I can send you back. The answer is quite precise in relation to the elements you raise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u133	But what am I talking about? I'm talking about the people who will have their mortgage agreement in their hands to go to their banker's house. The latter will have to read your explanatory statement, but it is not for that reason that he will welcome, with a big smile, the pensioner!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u134	Mrs Fonck, you will have a right of reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u135	As far as annuities are concerned, Idem. This was not part of the Group of Ten's agreement, in particular the tax treatment of annuities, the way in which annuities that are currently at a disadvantage compared to capital were preferred. This debate is also part of the government agreement. We will be able to discuss this in the near future. As far as the age of affiliation is concerned, I share your view. The Group of Ten did not wish to raise the age of affiliation to 21 years. In my view, as soon as a worker starts working, he must be able to benefit from access to the supplementary pension if he so wishes. I am therefore entirely in favour of a reduction in the age of affiliation. In any case, account should be taken of the European directive on this matter. I think I have responded to most of the comments. The latter were also included in the committee's report. Questions were asked on that occasion. I recall that we had a constructive debate that lasted four hours. I will conclude by saying that the debate on supplementary pensions is not closed. We still have to work on this file. Today, the agreement of the Group of Ten is being translated. On the other hand, I repeat what I said in committee: there is no contradiction between a rate of return guaranteed by the employer and the rates proposed by insurers and pension funds. These are two completely different things. You have to be well aware of that. This means that, of course, insurance companies are not prevented, but even more – as we can say, we are between ourselves – pension funds offer rates higher than the rate guaranteed by the employer. In view of the different prudential rules between insurers and pension funds, they are now able to do so. That's the problem with pension funds. In fact, there is some competition between them, which I believe is necessary if the affiliate is to benefit from the best result. Finally, the supplementary pension has its name: it is complementary. It is therefore not a question, Mr Gilkinet, of considering that, when we defend or increase supplementary pensions, we are against the statutory pensions of the first pillar. It is not about that. If they are complementary, this means that they are complementary to the system of distribution of the legal pension. It is in our common interest that as many people as possible enter the supplementary pension system and more importantly than is currently the case, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out. It is in our interest to ensure that there are more people in the system with larger amounts, particularly in proportion to the wage bill. When, for example, in negotiations for an interprofessional agreement, the allocation of a supplementary wage bill is discussed, priority should also be given to entry into the supplementary pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u136	Minister, I will not go back to what has already been said, because I believe that the positions are clear. However, I have still not received an answer to my question concerning the opinion of the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u137	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u138	In that case, I didn't understand. Do you intend to follow the advice of the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u139	This needs to be discussed within the government. The opinion is recent, it dates from Friday. But this in no way undermines the performance guaranteed by the employer. These are two completely different things. The employer is bound by a statutory performance guarantee, and there are rates to be negotiated with insurers and pension funds by pension plan organizers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u140	Mr Minister, excuse me, these are indeed two different things. If you require the employer to negotiate 1.75 %, while you have a minimum guarantee of 1.50 %, this is, of course, to the detriment of both the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u141	Obviously, inevitably. Pension funds now account for more than 1.5 or 1.75%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u142	That's not the point. There is now an agreement with the social partners on a minimum return. This is crossed by the advice of the National Bank, at the request of the insurers, to bring the minimum guarantee of return to 1.50 %. And now you're saying that we might be following that, because you'll be negotiating it again within the government. At least that's how I understand it. Mr. Secretary, that's how you put a bomb under the social consultation. In this social dialogue, the employers and employees have reached an agreement on this, and you will now see it crossed by a further reduction in the rate of return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u143	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1510/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1510/4) The draft law has 42 articles. The bill has 42 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u145	Annex V.Part • 6 и Karin Temmerman cs (151/10) •7 – Georges Gilkinet cs (1510/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u146	•1 Catherine Fonck (15/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u147	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u149	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1505/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1505/4) The draft law has 107 articles. The bill has 107 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u153	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Éric Massin, Fabienne Winckel, Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1342/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1342/4) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal of resolution asking the Court of Auditors to examine the quality, implementation, follow-up and evaluation of the second anti-poverty plan 2012-2014." The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution asking the Court of Auditors to examine the quality, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the second poverty reduction plan 2012-2014".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u154	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Lanjri who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u155	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 15% of the Belgian population is still below the poverty line. This is unacceptable. A whole series of socio-economic reforms have been put in place by the government, but this is not the place to discuss the potential worsening of poverty that they have caused. The most important thing today is that we have to take this case with us and move on. The government has made this a priority, as it is included in the government statement. You're in charge, Madam Secretary of State. For my group, it is essential to fight poverty and make it a real priority. The fight against poverty must be done in a cross-cutting manner. You have understood this well and have announced it every time in your policy notes and again in the announcement of the third poverty reduction plan. Since 2008, Belgium has adopted a federal plan to combat poverty, which covers various subjects: income, employment, health, housing, access to energy and public services, equality between men and women, and the fight against all forms of inequality. You told us in committee that you are committed to drafting a new plan. You have already turned to your colleagues to ask them what measures they intend to implement in order to be able to draw up this new plan. This resolution has been tabled in this context. It calls on the Court of Auditors to examine the quality, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the 2012-2014 federal poverty reduction plan and to submit any recommendations to the government. This would allow you to consider them in order to improve the plan and proposals submitted by your colleagues. For the PS Group, but I believe and hope that it is for the whole of this Parliament, it is essential that this new plan responds very concretely to this multidimensional problem, which you have announced. As we know, this is not just a lack of money. We must combat this multidimensional issue with strength and commitment. Following my questions, you yourself agreed with the proposal to submit the previous plan to the Court of Auditors. It was with great pleasure that the text was voted unanimously by all the political groups following consideration of the proposal in committee. I therefore hope that it will also be unanimously that Parliament will vote on this resolution so that we can move forward on this issue. This is a constructive approach, as it will help the government continue its work quickly. He will give you weapons to discuss with your colleagues in order to submit a plan that encompasses the whole of the problem, which is not limited to intentions or announcement effects, and thus enables concrete measures to be taken. They may not cost money, but they must also help you to ask your colleagues for the means to be able to implement this new plan and respond to the various problems of poverty. An objective analysis and the recommendations of the Court of Auditors will undoubtedly make it possible to act more concretely in favour of the fight against poverty by drawing up this new plan, which we hope to be ambitious and coherent. Madam Secretary of State, you've already started your work. I wish you every success in your work and I also wish you the flexibility, depending on what your colleagues will submit to you, to be able to follow the recommendations made to you by the Court of Auditors. If we pay attention to your statements, to what has happened, we will also be paying attention to the recommendations to be made by the Court of Auditors. We therefore hope that the government will take them into account and integrate them into this third plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u156	Mr President, I wanted to accompany Mr Massin in his speech because the Committee on Health, which has these areas of the fight against poverty in its competence, devoted quite a lot of time to this, in part on the occasion of the oral questions addressed to you, Madam Secretary of State. During these oral questions, we had to agree with you to post the review and the coming of this third poverty reduction plan on a regular basis. I recognize, as well as all members, that this is a complex subject that combines federal and cross-jurisdictional competencies with other jurisdictions. When, through these various questions and this difficulty in reaching a conclusion, there came the interest that there might be in asking the Court of Auditors to assess the implementation of the second plan to combat poverty, the committee and myself, as President, and my group could only support this request. I would like to stress the relevance of requesting this evaluation from the Court of Auditors, as was called for in the foreground. Combating poverty, and drawing up a plan to combat poverty, requires that the member of the government responsible for this competence, the ability to exert pressure and mobilize all members of his government. Indeed, employment policies, social policies, economic policies, health, energy, the environment, etc. are involved. The evaluation of this second plan should therefore put into perspective where the cross-cutting nature and mobilization of the various ministers and their competences have either failed or, on the contrary, been particularly successful. This would make it possible to generalize good practice. A final element must attract our attention. We have had a first plan, followed by a second, and the poverty rate in our country is still, and too, important. There must be something wrong: it is not enough to have a plan to combat poverty. We have been very critical of policies, particularly in employment this year, with the exclusion of rights for a wide range of people receiving benefits. It will be interesting to see what the Court of Auditors will say in its evaluation of the implementation of the poverty reduction plan. This will also be the case in the ensuing inquiry with you and other members of the government on the choice of policies that are being pursued and their impact on poverty. It must be recognized that the effectiveness of poverty reduction plans has not yet been proven and is not yet sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty is as important to me as it is to the government. I said in committee that the third plan was about to be finalized within the government and in collaboration with all stakeholders and organizations fighting poverty. I have followed the committee's opinion on an evaluation by the Court of Auditors. It can be very important also for the second plan and can provide useful recommendations for the third plan. I am pleased that the government, the opposition and the majority, together, have been able to reach a resolution, which I hope is unanimous, so that we can ask the Court of Auditors for this assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u158	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u159	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u160	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Wilrycx, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1518/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1518/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u163	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Klaps, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2014 accounts and the 2016 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and the funding of the political parties will take place later. The vote on the 2014 accounts and 2016 budgets of the House of Representatives and the financing of political parties will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u164	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Wouters, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2014 accounts, the 2015 budget adjustments and the 2016 budget proposals will take place later. The vote on the 2014 accounts, the 2015 budget adjustments and the 2016 budget proposals will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u165	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of Dutch-speaking assessor was communicated to you at the plenary session of 10 December 2015. The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a Dutch-speaking councillor's seat was communicated to you during the plenary session on 10 December 2015. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. The Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration heard all candidates on 15 and 16 December 2015. The Chair of the Committee reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2015. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service heard from all candidates on 15 and 16 December 2015. The chairman of the committee reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 December 2015. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2015, I propose that you confirm the list proposed by the Council of State, namely: - first candidate: Mr Michel Tison, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent and Assistant to the Law Department of the Council of State; - second candidate: Mr Reinhard Steennot, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent; - third candidate: Mr Hans De Wulf, professor at the Faculty of Law of the Ugent. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 December 2015, I propose that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State, namely: - first candidate: Mr Michel Tison, ordinary professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Ghent and assessor at the Legislative Section of the Council of State; - Second candidate: Mr. Reinhard Steennot, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Ghent; - third candidate: Mr. Hans De Wulf, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Ghent. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u166	At the request of the proposers, I propose that the following legislative proposals be referred to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the draft law of Mr Johan Vande Lanotte and Mr Hans Bonte establishing the Brussels-Capital Police Zone (No. 710/1); - Mr Johan Vande Lanotte's bill amending the Law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons (No. 711/1), - the bill by Mr Hans Bonte and Mr Alain Summit amending the Code of Criminal Procedure on measures to promote the fight against illicit arms trafficking (No. 1362/1). At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism: - the bill of Messrs. Johan Vande Lanotte and Hans Bonte establishing the Brussels-Capital Police Area (No 710/1); - Mr Johan Vande Lanotte's bill amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons (No. 711/1); - the bill of Messrs. Hans Bonte and Alain Top amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to promoting the fight against arms trafficking (No. 1362/1). These legislative proposals were previously sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration and the Committee for Justice These proposals had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service and the Committee on Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u167	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u168	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 127 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr De Wever voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u169	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u170	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2016 budget year of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u171	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2014 for the financing of the political parties. As a result, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts for the financing of political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u173	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the financial year 2016 for the financing of the political parties. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2016 budget year for the financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u174	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2014 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u175	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court. Mr Benoît Lutgen voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u176	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u177	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Supreme Court for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u178	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u179	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u180	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u181	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u182	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u183	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2014. As a result, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u184	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u185	Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's accounts for the financial year 2014 for the protection of privacy. As a result, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u186	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u187	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2014 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2014 budget year accounts of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u188	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u189	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2014 budget year of the BIM Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u190	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u191	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2014. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2014 budget year of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u192	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Constitutional Court. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mrs Fatma Pehlivan and Mr Frédéric Daerden voted like their group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u193	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u194	Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the adjustment of the budget of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u195	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u196	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopted the adjustment of the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u197	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u198	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendments to the budget of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2015. Accordingly, the House adopts adjustments to the budget for the 2015 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u199	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u200	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2014 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2014 budget of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u201	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u202	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2015 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2015 budget of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u203	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u204	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendments to the budget for the financial year 2015 of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Society. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustments to the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u205	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u206	Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the 2015 budget of the Supervisory Body to the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2015 budget year of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u207	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u208	Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals for the financial year 2016 are adopted by the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u209	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u210	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u211	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u212	Consequently, the Court of Auditors adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2016 of the Supreme Court of Justice. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u213	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u214	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2016 of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u215	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u216	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2016 of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Accordingly, the House adopted the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u217	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u218	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u219	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u220	Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2016 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u221	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u222	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the financial year 2016 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u223	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u224	Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's budget proposals for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the BIM Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u225	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u226	Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 financial year of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals for the 2016 budget year of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 79 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1351/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1351/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u228	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Mr Vanvelthoven, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u229	Mr President, this is an amendment concerning the donations to the royal family. In order to clarify what this government decided last year, I would like to read the notification of the Council of Ministers of 15 October 2014: "With the exception of the Civil List and the Forum of Parliament line, savings of 2% in 2015 are made in the budget of the dots" - that is what happened, and on top of that 2 % annually in 2016 to 2019. The 2016 budget does not include the 2% discount. That is why, in accordance with the government's decision, which we supported from the sp.a, we have tabled an amendment to the budget in order to see the 2% reduction actually achieved. In committee, that was a bit laughed away by the Minister of Finance. He said that it was the expenditure budget and that we should be with the Minister for the Budget. The Minister for the Budget is here today. I therefore suspect that the Minister will give Parliament the opinion to approve the government's decision with this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u230	Mr Vanvelthoven, I understand that you explained your amendment, but it was actually an explanation of vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u231	Mr President, I would like to say that the Belgian national budget, including social security, amounts to some EUR 200 billion. The sp.a Group is tabling one amendment on Prince Laurent's dotation to highlight her social vision. That says a lot about the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close the debate, because there really should be no explanations of vote in the vote on an amendment. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Lanjri voted against. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 137 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u233	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u234	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u235	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u236	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u237	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u238	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Barbara Pas op artikel 1-01-2. (1352/51) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Barbara Pas to Article 1-01-2. (1352/51) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u239	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 and the attached tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 was adopted and the annexed tables were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 81 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1352/52) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1352/52) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u241	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 81 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1468/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1468/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u242	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 81 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1508/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1508/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1504/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1504/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u244	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Raoul Hedebouw on Article 87. (1479/15) Vote on Amendment No 4 to Rule 87 by Raoul Hedebouw. (1479/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 87 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 87 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 88/1 (n). (1479/15) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 88/1 (n). (1479/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 49 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Becq voted against. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet on article 107. (1479/15) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet to Rule 107. (1479/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 107 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 107 was adopted. Mr Bonte voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 116 (n) to 119 (n). (1479/15) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 116 (n) to 119 (n). (1479/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 120 (n) to 122 (n). (1479/15) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert Articles 120 (n) to 122 (n). (1479/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u245	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 81 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1479/16) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1479/16) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that we are in agreement with the content of this cooperation agreement, we have recently approved a similar agreement for Norway, and we will abstain for formal reasons. Unlike the Council of State, this government is of the opinion that this is not a mixed treaty. The Council of State says that this treaty must also be ratified by the Länder, but this government does not even think that consultation with the Länder is necessary. We believe that consultation with the Länder is at least appropriate, for the sake of legal certainty alone, if this agreement were to be concluded. That is why we will abstain on this cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u249	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1458/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1458/4) Mr Vercamer voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1457/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1457/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1490/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1490/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1491/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1491/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u253	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1492/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1492/04) Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Deseyn voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 82 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1502/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1502/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u255	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 2. (1510/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 2. (151/ 10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 57 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 2. (1510/2) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 2. (1510/2) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u256	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 39/1 (n). (1510/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 39/1 (n). (151/ 10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u257	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 90 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1510/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1510/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 82 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1505/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1505/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1342/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1342/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip090x.u260	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1518/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1518/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's work. We will resume our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. 00, for the discussion of the draft tax shift. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, December 18, 2015 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 18 December 2015 at 10 a.m.
