ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mr. Clarinval, Mr. Metsu, Mr. Senesael, Mr. Thiéry, Mrs. Lanjri, Mrs. Dierick, Mr. Wilrycx, Mr. Jadin, M. Piedboeuf and M. Laaouej. Is there a rapporteur who asks for the floor? Is there anyone who would like to speak as a reporter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u3	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u4	I take it the same goes for the other rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u5	Mr President, I am still the advice of Mr Laaouej. So I'm doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, so far only one speaker has signed up for the general discussion. For the time being, only one speaker is included in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u8	Mr Gilkinet, there are still certainties! I note on the list of speakers Mr Gilkinet, Mr de Lamotte en mevrouw Jiroflée. Together with Mr Friart we already have four speakers. This will enable us to begin the discussion. I give the floor to Mr. Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the amendment that was discussed and voted on Tuesday in the Committee on the Economy. The purpose of the amendment was to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and for the management of fissile material irradiated by such plants. It should be recalled that the purpose of this amendment is to determine the amount of the nuclear allocation contribution for 2015. The objective of the nuclear contribution is, let us recall, to enable the State to benefit from financial resources to finance its socio-economic policy and, in particular, its energy policy, including the necessary energy transition. This contribution is justified on the basis of a finding that nuclear operators and companies with a share in industrial electricity production from the fission of nuclear fuel benefit from a favourable situation. This finding was formally confirmed by the Constitutional Court in several judgments in which it highlighted three elements. The first is the fact that our nuclear fleet is limited to seven existing power plants. The second was the accelerated depreciation rate that had been applied to the initial investments. The third is the deterioration of the competitiveness of other modes of electricity production. It should also be noted that nuclear operators benefit from three advantages. The first is that the production costs are advantageous, since, let us recall, the plants are amortized. The second is that there are low and stable costs for nuclear fuels; the third is that the stability of their production is great since these plants are baseload. As a result, these production units have become low-cost plants. Therefore, in 2008, the legislator, in order to allocate the tax burden among the various economic agents, chose to establish a distribution contribution. It was extended from year to year by the various governments on the basis of the principle, enshrined in and confirmed by the Constitutional Court, of constant jurisprudence. What is this principle? In order to validate this procedure, the Court has always stressed the importance of ensuring a subtle balance between, on the one hand, the general interest justifying the State's claim for a specific contribution to the nuclear sector and, on the other hand, the ownership right of the operator, on the understanding that this nuclear contribution cannot in any case lead to confiscation of the operator's benefit. The Court also stressed the importance of prior assessment of the contributory capacity of the debtors. This will, of course, vary from year to year depending on the profits generated by the production of electricity by fission of nuclear fuels. The amendment that we voted in committee, like its predecessors, is consistent with this jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, our Supreme Court. It shall respect the proportionality ratio between the amounts of the allocation contribution planned for 2015 and the contributory capacity of the payers. The government's objective was once again to capture the nuclear rent, i.e. only the remuneration higher than the remuneration necessary to ensure the continuity of the operator's activities. The CREG, which is the energy gendarmerie, had itself carried out a study on 12 March 2015 which it had presented at a meeting of our commission and which included an update of the assessment of the benefits of the nuclear fuel fission power generation industry and had concluded that it was significantly reduced. This resulted in an amount of between €434.31 and €434.36 million. This was a significant difference from previous years. It is due to the specific characteristics of 2014, i.e. the decrease, if not the collapse, in wholesale electricity prices and the decrease in electricity production following the interruption of certain sites for safety reasons, such as Doel 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2. In order to comply with the Constitutional Court's requirement, it was therefore necessary to review the amount of this overall contribution downwards in comparison with previous years, since it had been set in a completely different context. The amount of the contribution has therefore been set at EUR 200 million for 2015, which corresponds to the gross amount of the allocation contribution, i.e. 297 million, from which the unavailability time of the reactors covered in 2014 was subtracted, i.e. 32.74 %. It should be recalled that this amount is also the result of work carried out by an expert appointed by a procurement contract and mandated by the Minister to advise her on the method of determining this contribution for 2014. At the committee meeting on Tuesday, the expert recalled that the CREG report had been one of the basis of all its work. He added that his academic research on the question of determining the amount of a monopoly annuity generally showed a figure of between 30 and 33 %. This figure was used by Minister Magnette in 2009 to calculate the first annuity and, from an estimated profit of 750 million euros, the contribution was set at 250 million euros, or 30 %. The economic reality of the operation should also be taken into account so that of the 434 million, the agreement provides for a contribution of EUR 200 million, or 46% of the gross amount, i.e. a much higher percentage than that obtained by the government in 2009. It should be recalled that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court prohibits measures which are considered to be confiscatory. It would therefore be illusory to imagine that we could have gone much further. It would have been a risk that this provision would have been overturned by the Court, whereas it is in fact an added value for the financing of public policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u10	Mr. Friart, I can hear you. I am not trying to say that the amounts should not vary. Nevertheless, as you say it would have been illusory to go much further, I would like to recall the remarks made two days ago by Mr Colmant in committee, who spoke of a "corridor" in which we were quite in the margins possible. The fact that the EUR 200 million is the middle part of the corridor proves that there was a way to go beyond it, while remaining within the necessary confidence interval. The choice that has been made by the government is therefore not to go and capture what is legitimate in the corridor and the interval of confidence. That is exactly what is included in the report. I prefer to be precise because we refer to written reports. Things must be able to be said as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u11	Mr Colmant did speak of an interval of trust between the partners or rather the interlocutors at this meeting. It should be borne in mind that this agreement must be agreed to by all the interlocutors, by all the parties involved. That's why he talked about a confidence interval in this "corridor." He said that with these 200 million, we were perfectly in this confidence interval. On the other hand, according to his calculation, we are at 46%. This is much higher than what was done in 2009 when we were at 30% and it corresponds more or less to what was perceived the last time when the profit was much greater. The benefit estimated by CREG was 1.2 billion and the basic contribution was estimated at 250 million euros, with an additional contribution of 350 million euros, representing 50%. These were much higher figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u12	I must correct you on one point: when Mr Colmant speaks in his report, on page 18, of a confidence interval, it is not a confidence interval between the various actors, but in the econometric sense of the term. He pointed out that the amount of EUR 200 million fell into the corridor, but that it fell as the median of the corridor. However, if we want to go as far as possible, we must be in the upper part of the corridor and not in the middle part. The amount of EUR 200 million is not the maximum of what could have been legitimately requested, even according to the parameters of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (GREG) and Mr Colmant. But this is a choice that the government has made downwards, compared to what it could have asked for in the confidence interval and in the corridor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. I am a little surprised by Mr Friart's presentation about the confidence interval. We have indeed heard Mr Colmant in committee this Tuesday on this subject. We are in a range and I believe that the confidence interval and this amount should be appropriate for all the interlocutors. We have the impression that this confidence interval and the amount fully satisfy only one interlocutor. If I look at the amount that the state is not going to collect, I find this confidence interval unbalanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u14	Absolutely not. It is equivalent to 46% of Electrabel's profit margin which was estimated by CREG in its report of 12 March. In fact, it was presented immediately after in committee. This amount can be reported from 46 per cent to 50 per cent previously on much higher amounts. It can also be reported to the 30% that had been established when Mr. Magnette was Minister of Energy. On the other hand, I remind you that this amount must not be confiscatory, otherwise the Constitutional Court could cancel it, which is not the purpose. This amount of EUR 200 million, as requested by the government, is quite correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u15	By your words, Mr Friart, you confirm to me that the amount of a tax has been negotiated between Electrabel and the State. I know few people in Belgium who negotiate the amount of their taxes with the operator. You're amazing, Mr. Friart!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u16	Mr de Lamotte, I have never spoken of taxation, since it is not a tax but an annuity, and there has never been any negotiation. This is an amount that was set by the government, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u17	There's never been any negotiations! We have received a document with a convention and figures, signed by Mr Mestrallet. I would be surprised if he affixed his signature to a document that did not satisfy him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u18	But this document you received includes not only the fee for 2015, but also for 2016, also for the following year and also the fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u19	I want to negotiate my taxes for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 too! So you confirm!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u20	We are not talking about a tax, we are talking about a royalty! If you had read the text correctly and thoroughly, you would have found that we were not talking about a tax but about a fee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u21	Mr Friart, I know it's only 10:40 a.m., but you're already doing very, very hard to start the day! You say there was no negotiation. You want to laugh? From July to November, the text has been discussed. If we are late in Parliament, it is because of the negotiations. So rest assured, minister! You negotiated well with Electrabel! You did not just sign the document he presented to you. Negotiations have indeed taken place. Then you say that we did not negotiate the tax but a royalty. It's very nice of you to negotiate a royalty!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u22	We didn't negotiate! This text is very comprehensive. He talks not only about the fee for 2015, 2016 and subsequent years. He talks about the contribution of Doel 1 and Doel 2. I tell you that in this text, the fee for 2015 has not been negotiated but fixed by the government! Other elements of the text may have been negotiated, but the fee has been set by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u23	Mr President, I propose to hear, first of all, the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u24	Mr Van Hees, you have asked for the floor, I have given it to you. I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u25	My proposal is in line with the logic of the debate, since my speech goes beyond the scope of the current discussion. But, if you wish, I will intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u26	I invite you to speak now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u27	Mr Friart, I am somewhat surprised that you are the lawyer of Electrabel or the government, which is also the lawyer of this company. Indeed, there is a loss to the State. Moreover, by doing all the whims of this multinational, you are penalising private consumers, households – in Flanders, for example, the electricity bill of households has increased by 50% – but also small businesses – all the more so since you are yourself a business manager – who are paying more and more for electricity. In doing so, even in the liberal logic that is yours, making these gifts to Electrabel is inconceivable, Mr Friart. Your own business suffers the consequences. Try to change course and do not favour a large multinational at the expense of all the other economic players, be it households or small businesses!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u28	Mr Van Hees, your remarks have nothing to do with the convention. However, the rise in the price of electricity is certainly not the result of the declining wholesale price. It is due to the margin that must be provided to finance renewables, but also to the transmission of electricity. A network was planned to transport electricity from a power plant to millions of consumers. This network must now be adapted to bring electricity produced by a large number of consumers to a power plant. These two components are responsible for the increase in the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u29	Mr Friart, it's 10:45 a.m. and you're adding more! I'll explain. You say: "No, we did not negotiate 2015. Let's face it, we've negotiated 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, until 2026. The minister negotiated with Electrabel until 2026." It's actually not just 2015. Now I'm right. It's negotiated until 2026. Second element. You say, "We didn't negotiate the tax, we negotiated the royalty."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u30	We have not negotiated it, we have fixed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u31	You say you fixed the fee together, like big ones. But I guess you read the convention. In Article 10(1) of the Convention, it is stated that, since we have jointly fixed the fee, the tax, the other charges cannot be changed because the fee covers the whole. I read to you Article 10-1: "In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Extension, the fee" – which you have fixed with Electrabel – "excludes any other charge in favour of the Federal State." In doing so, in the Convention, you exclude any possibility of amending the tax system. Worse, at point 10-2, it is foreseen that if this were to be changed later by a government, Electrabel would be entitled to compensation. I'm going to take up my colleague's remarks. Which other citizen or company can afford to sign an agreement with the State committing him until 2026 according to which "I don't pay taxes, I fix a fee and you are also forbidden to charge taxes and other charges"? It's still strong, sir!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u32	The compensations would be taken into account for example if, in the context of the re-starting of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the government were to decide in 2020 to stop the production of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Compensation should be paid to Electrabel. It also works in the opposite direction. If Electrabel, unilaterally, decided to stop production at Doel 1 and Doel 2, compensation should be paid to the Belgian State. But all this has nothing to do with this convention we are talking about for 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u33	Mr Friart, let us be clear: at the moment we are talking about rent, that is to say taxation, not royalty. This year, there are none for Doel 1 and Doel 2. It is set for the future. So let's stay in the middle of 2015. The fee is linked to the extension. Let's not confuse the questions! I say and repeat, you have negotiated with Electrabel a tax, and even a no increase for the future, whatever the circumstances. Admittedly, this is a matter for the state to be voluntarily impoverished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u34	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak in this already well-fed debate. I'll try to put some elements in the right order. First of all, I thank Mr de Lamotte for his speech. It is a matter of talking now about the 2015 nuclear allocation contribution, which relates to the capture of the overprofit recorded by the operators in fiscal year 2014 – a contribution that you call "rent", a name that we can consent to grant to it. To return to the beginning of the discussion, Mr. Colmant's report is one of the elements on which the government relied to set the amount of the allocation contribution from 2015 until 2026. The confidence interval in question stems from the Monte Carlo simulations, which consist of projecting statistics according to several parameters such as the company's fixed and variable costs, the price of electricity and other data. Depending on how we model them, we get more or less the same result. From this fork, the government made a choice, which belongs to it in its own right. That the agreement that was released by a press release on 29 July is the result of negotiations with the operators is another matter. The operationalization of this agreement is: 1. The convention already mentioned but which will not be discussed today because it is not the subject of the day. This agreement is linked to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 on which the State will collect a royalty for 10 years from the sole operator-owner of these plants, that is, Electrabel. There is a separate text which we will also go through from January onwards. 2. The annexes to this Convention which explain a great deal of detail and formulae, the way in which the State conducted its work and took into account all the indices and parameters which, in particular - because it is not the only or most important - Mr Colmant's report which was the academic personality who was at our side to carry out an economic and technical work with Electrabel which was necessary in order to have a balance, contrary to what you claim, and a weight vis-à-vis the counterpart. Thanks to this academic and technical assistance, we were able to set - what is the role of the State - the allocation contribution from 2015 to 2026. And, as we repeat in the text on several occasions, we will then submit this decision of the government to parliamentary debate. That is precisely what we are doing today. It is therefore necessary to discuss and focus our discussions on the 2015 allocation contribution, which is the government's proposal and the operationalisation of this agreement on the basis of the government's proposal as presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u35	I understand the Minister's willingness to confine the debate to the 2015 issue alone without being able to make explicit reference to the convention and to the debate on it in that context. However, Annex C to the Convention contains the legislation we are talking about today. It is therefore a part of the convention itself and, from that point on, it is well anchored in the global reflection on the convention which provides that the State shall dispossess its fiscal capacity because the royalty has been negotiated – you say "fixed" – in the context of the negotiations that have taken place. That is why I am referring to this convention or what we have been given as a document is not the right one. However, Schedule C is the same as the bill before us here. This annex is signed by Mr Mestrallet, who now drafts the legislation that the government, in any case its Minister of Energy, is tabling here in Parliament. That is what goes far, and that is why I had to refer to this convention, even though I am fully aware that we will have a full debate later on the convention and the other years. It is Annex C1 of the Convention that has been transmitted to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u36	Mr President, I do not agree with Mr Nollet's conclusion. It's not yet this year that we're going to have to wake up together. On the other hand, Mr Nollet, I agree with your second conclusion that we will have the whole debate next January when we look at the whole text on the 2016-2026 allocation contribution, on the one hand, and the text on the fee and convention you are talking about, and its annexes, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u37	Mr. President, I'm trying to convince Mr. Friart. The convention is ultimately only the result of a deal. This deal has been announced for the future in terms of taxation. It was therefore not a scientific analysis that determined the amount but the result of a deal. Only, we're indicating the deal figure and then we're building a scientific analysis to tell us what we got to. So we take the problem in the opposite direction! To such an extent that the deal is provided for in Article 2(H) of the Convention, which clearly defines the allocation contribution from 2015 to 2026. We're fixing things now. We could have had evolutionary criteria, but no, we're setting them now. It's the result of a deal, you have to say!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u38	Mr de Lamotte, I repeat that, in the course of this work, we have benefited from the help of an economist from the academic world, precisely to support the reasoning, to build it, to feed it and to allow the government to be in a position of strength in this negotiation. So that's not what you claim at all! With regard to evolutionary character, you have long noticed that this evolutionary character existed since a variable formula is installed, for reasons that we will explain later, from 2017 until 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u39	Briefly, with regard to the minister's previous intervention, I would just like to make sure that the text introduced here in the form of an amendment is indeed an annex to the convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u40	It's in the title, Mr. Nollet. It is a document from which you have drawn the conclusions you want to draw, which is legitimate, but we have already explained on several occasions that the texts have been ready for a long time and that agreement should be reached on the whole. The operationalization of this package took the necessary time until the Convention was signed. Two days after this signature, you have had all the documents with, in fact, two annexes, entitled "Schedule" and "Schedule 2", respectively, as well as the legislation. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u41	I do not know why the minister is trying to play the words by saying that it is a document that is in the convention under point C1, while the convention itself speaks of an annex to the convention. I read recital 4: "Considering that the so-called extension of the duration of Doel 1 and Doel 2 requires investment, that these investments require the support of the company, (...). The framework includes: 1) the draft legislation in Annex B; 2) the document in Annex C". And this is Annex C, which is referred to here; it is the text of the law that has been tabled in the form of an amendment. I do not understand why the minister says that it is not an annex to the convention, whereas the convention refers to Appendix C which is the text tabled today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u42	We can come to the conclusion. I think everything has been said, Mr. de Lamotte. It is a convention, not a tax. This amount has been set and not agreed upon. I guess things are clear to everyone. This matter has been referred to in committee. We will have the opportunity to return, certainly at the beginning of next year, to the whole convention. It seemed important to me to recall that beyond the 2015 contribution, we need to talk about transparency, accountability, efficiency, which the minister and the government have demonstrated. Transparency: this agreement has been made public, including the calculation of the pension. This was the first time this kind of convention had been made public, as the previous convention had not been. Efficiency: within the framework of a subtle general balance defended by the State and the right of ownership of the operator of nuclear production sites, the government has managed to reach an agreement, which will ensure financial returns by 2026 with, as far as 2015 is concerned, a higher percentage than that set out in the 2009 agreement. Finally, responsibility: this balanced outcome will further strengthen the legal stability and security of this nuclear contribution. It will also ensure significant budgetary stability. That is why we will vote for it. We will, of course, have the opportunity to discuss the rest of the agreement, including the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the associated fee. At that time, we can recall how important this agreement is for the security of supply of our citizens and businesses, for the competitiveness of our businesses and also for preparing for the energy transition. This is more than ever a fundamental objective in view of the agreement reached in Paris under COP21.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, the third-party healthcare payer scheme makes an important contribution to the accessibility of health care and reduces the gap between those who get to health care in a smooth way and the others. A lot of research shows that out-of-pocket payments really put a brake on access to healthcare, even if there is a high level of reimbursement. This is not just the case in our country, but worldwide. In The World Health Report 2008, Primary Health Care: Now More Than Ever, payments out-of-pocket are referred to as an important inhibiting factor to universal care. We also note that people with a sufficient income delay health care through the system of pre-financing healthcare costs. Moreover, we believe that the third-party payment system can avoid a great deal of red tape. It is particularly important for us to see that people with a moral income sometimes postpone care provision, often to the detriment of their children. A number of studies have shown that certain non-urgent matters relating to children are being postponed, such as a foot that is slightly distorted, a lazy eye, or dental care, in short, things that do not immediately threaten health but which, if not immediately remedied, can put a mortgage on the later life of the children. The federal government has recently extended the third-payer scheme to a wider group of rightholders. Anyone who is entitled to an increased allowance can now rely on the third-party payment scheme. In addition, it is mandatory with the general practitioners. We think this is a very good thing and we have repeatedly stressed our support for it. The doctors have made a fuss about this, claiming that the ICT and the administration were not ready, but the minister has kept his foot down and said that the system would go ahead. For this you received applause on our benches, Madam Secretary. However, we believe that it should go a long way further. That the ICT wouldn't be ready, that's bullshit. Everyone who's working on it knows that. It often means, even for people with a sufficiently high income, a brake on the search for health care. For this reason, we are tabling an amendment to the programme law, which provides for the introduction of the third-payer scheme for all, in primary health care, but also for doctors-specialists, dentists and physiotherapists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u44	Mr President, I would like to speak on the financial aspects of the programme law, four elements of the articles that were analysed in the Finance Committee. The first element, the Minister of Budget, concerns the de-allocation of several budgetary funds. For some, we have followed the government's reasoning. There is no point in keeping funds in the State's accounts that are no longer being fed and that are not being used. You have to clean up from time to time. But for others, we have questions and criticisms. In particular, I have targeted the de-allocation of the Belgian Food Sovereignty Fund, which is particularly important and useful from a development policy perspective with the countries of the South. We receive regularly here partners from the South who benefit from this fund, which was funded on a ten-year basis, which allowed time-bound programming of the aid provided, a genuine collaboration with the partners of the South. You and the government have decided to de-allocate this fund, which we regret, even if in zero time you ensure that the resources are available. But these means will have to be systematically renegotiated when they were guaranteed over a period of ten years. Development policies require stability, a vision over time. It seems to us here, in relation to all our objectives and to the issues of food sovereignty encountered in the countries of the South, that this is a wrong decision, which we have denounced. The second fund to which I would like to draw attention is the Ageing Fund. I propose a moment of silence for the assembly. With this program law, we will decide to abolish the Ageing Fund. It's not annoyance. Much of the policy put in place a few years ago to forecast the cost of ageing, the gradual increase in life expectancy, the increase in the number of pensioners and the cost of pensions will be eliminated. This is not news, the minister will reply to me, because on the one hand, this fund was relatively virtual and on the other hand, this announcement had already taken place. However, it is today that we are removing this Ageing Fund. But this also shows the failure of previous governments to pre-finance the cost of ageing, which leads us today to measures that we regret and denounce when we approach them, in particular with the Minister of Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine: a linear increase in the length of the career, regardless of the health of the workers, whatever the reality of their careers, when we could have called other sources of financing for pensions of the future, in particular income from capital. The de-allocation of these funds clearly has a budgetary objective, although the effect is relatively marginal. I would like to echo the concern of the Court of Auditors about the specialisation of budgetary allocations which is disappearing with some of these funds. The second positive element, which we have supported. I would like to say that sometimes we vote on articles of the programme laws that are submitted to us. We might feel like we're against everything. That is obviously not the case. For example, tax aid granted to workers in pre-pension status, pre-pension unemployment scheme, to give them a net wage differential, is welcome. When it is possible to leave the pre-board to work voluntarily, why not encourage this? We are very much in favour of such positive measures. I think that's how we have to work. The third element is the reduction in the advantage of notional interests for banks; in other words, the increase in the contribution of banks to the current budgetary difficulties. I remain dissatisfied with the debate we have had, Mr. Minister of Finance, on the exemption you are granting to clearing companies that have banking status. Their profession is special, but they are nevertheless market players who make significant profits. It seems to me that an additional contribution, though symbolic, would be justified. You haven't mentioned, maybe you can do it now, the exact amounts. A complementary contribution from these two clearance companies active in Belgium was entirely justified in our view. For this reason, I will resubmit my amendment not to exempt them from this effort. I would now like to address a few articles that have been withdrawn from this programme law by the majority. These articles concern tax regularization and related revenue. As a reminder, the revenue announced in connection with this tax regularisation is EUR 250 million. It is not anomalous since we are going to vote for a budget in which there are plenty of uncertainties, lots of holes, lots of revenue announced but which cannot be easily verified. In this case, on 1 January we will not have this system of regularisation of the tax system. In substance, this does not upset me entirely, but nevertheless, the reason is two of the opinions of the Council of State on two versions of the text produced by the majority, according to which there is a constitutional problem, a lack of consultation with the federated entities which, since the sixth reform of the State and the evolution of the financing laws, are also affected by this type of measure, in particular with regard to the possibility of regularizing inheritance rights which have not been declared. This also applies to federated entities. I therefore urge you to take the language as quickly as possible with the federated entities to find a solution. I have noted that you will do so as soon as next week. I contradicted you yesterday in the debate. At this stage, the Council of State has not delivered an opinion on the substance of the text, as it has merely verified its admissibility and constitutionality with regard to the division of powers. We shall carefully read this opinion of the Council of State when we criticise in substance the tax regularization as you imagine, as we have done with the previous regularisation rounds. At the time, the DLU, which was called "unique" was not, since other possibilities for regularization were organized by other governments. The particularity of the diet you are considering at this stage – but you can always change your mind – is that it would be permanent. This means that fraud and the future regularisation of fraud could be organised at the same time. Fraud and its regularisation could be programmed over time as long as we know the statute of limitations for tax fraud, even though I have noted that the fines would be gradual over time, which is rather positive. It would still be a way to get away with it. In conclusion, as you said yesterday in plenary, Minister, the exchange of international tax and banking information is becoming more widespread, particularly under pressure from the United States and the OECD. This is a positive development that we support. The doors are closing. More effort is needed. Therefore, why propose new opportunities to get out of it properly? Is this not an encouragement to fraud, implying that it is always possible to negotiate through the regularization of taxes, or even through the criminal transaction, which also exists in our right to our great damn, through a law that has been passed in everyday affairs? It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that you are giving a very bad signal to those who would be tempted to cheat. The best anti-fraud indication is to recall that it will be pursued ruthlessly and, if necessary, to penalize it heavily. This is the most effective gesture to be made to the vast majority of our fellow citizens who contribute honestly to the financing of the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the debate we have had with Mr Friart. For the first time, the amount of a tax was negotiated with a taxpayer. You won't let me out of it, minister. Moreover, Friart was proud to announce it – which is amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u46	Mr President, I would like to contradict my colleague, Mr de Lamotte. We have never talked about taxes, but about royalties, and there has never been any negotiation. On the contrary, it is a royalty fixed by the government and not an unnegotiated tax. The shade is important and I would like to stress it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u47	Mr Friart, excuse me, but if you said that to a wooden horse, he would be running! I think you have some difficulties with the French language, excuse me for telling you but you can find the meaning of the words in the dictionary!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u48	Mr President, indeed, this convention is quite clear, not tax, but a royalty! No negotiation, but fixing a price, a cost for Electrabel! I do not know where Mr de Lamotte is going to seek all his divagations, but we must stick to the text of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u49	At the risk of repeating myself, like Mr Friart, the convention provides for a fee and provides that there will be no other possible tax. She's talking about tax. I understand you, Mr Friart, when you say "no tax but a fee!" Indeed, the convention provides that there will be no other tax but a fee. In doing so, you negotiated the tax. You put it in the convention. That is what we are criticising here, because it is unconstitutional but also unfair to other taxpayers, who do not have the opportunity to negotiate taxes as you do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the position is clear at some point. You cannot repeat the same thing endlessly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u51	Mr President, I would like to go back to one element that has not yet been mentioned this morning, namely the major achievements achieved by previous governments and the mechanism of taxation of an annuity called 'distribution contribution'. Remember that this mechanism has been validated three times by the Constitutional Court. When you have a tool in your hand, you don't throw it away. We have a legal document that stands the way, has been challenged three times and has been "rejected" by the Constitutional Court. I think we're wasting some of these assets. On the other hand, allow me to refer to an opinion of the Council of State that "the Council of State cannot, however, give a conclusive opinion on the contribution for 2015 since it has not had sufficient knowledge of the concrete figures of production and of the impact of the temporary closure of several nuclear power plants on this production". In the light of this opinion of the Council of State, we can clearly deduce that the amount which has been fixed is the result of a deal between Electrabel, who is very happy, and the Belgian State, a deal based on little, in any case not on a scientific analysis which would corroborate a number of elements. Moreover, the detailed analysis has not yet been provided. The clear electricity generation figures (variable costs, fixed costs, a number of other costs) are not specified, despite repeated demands. That is what the Council of State notes. Furthermore, Madam Minister, you justified this agreement by the fact that the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 could not take place without a revision of the amount of the allocation contribution. Should I remind you that, during the extension of Tihange 1, the government did not carry out a downward revision of the allocation contribution? On the contrary, it has introduced a complementary contribution to provide a number of additional elements and above all money to the State, and therefore to all citizens. And today, you decide purely and simply to delete it. Let us now return to the reasons for the decrease in this tax. The extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is not necessary to ensure, at least until 2018, the security of supply of our country. Minister, in an interview with De Tijd on Saturday, December 12, you say: "If we have too much electricity, we can still sell it. This will increase the amount of taxes levied by the State. I never heard anyone complain when it brought money." Minister, may I draw your attention for a moment? I would point out that, on some summer days when the amount of electricity was positively influenced by wind and solar energy, we had to turn on roads and motorways in order to eliminate electricity from the grid. Do you seriously think that we can sell electricity in the summer at an interesting price? Do you think the weather conditions are so different between Maastricht, Aachen and Liège? How will you pursue the development of renewable energies with the maintenance of seven reactors whose production is not modulable? I would like to hear your answer to that question. Energy policy, as it appears here, is intended to guarantee security of supply and the energy transition. But it's just a smokescreen to try to hide politics at all from nuclear. In addition to recent developments, the energy transition, gas-fired power plants will no longer be able to play the role of flexibility and support for renewable energy in the absence of profitability and in the face of the baseload of nuclear power. The support they would need will actually disappear, while in the government agreement you mention this need for support. You even went so far as to tell us that renewables produced more CO2 than nuclear energy. Your decision today, therefore, undermines the production of renewable electricity. Madam Minister, you have stated that the choice of extension is supported by projections of the fall in gas production in the Netherlands, which will, in the medium term, have an impact on export capacity to Belgium. Today, they are around 3,500 MW; they could reach 2,500 MW by 2016, and then 2,200 MW by 2017. Is there not confusion in this system? You justify the extension of nuclear power not by reducing the capacity to import electricity but gas. It's special. You state that notifications of gas-fired power plants will be fully effective as soon as the power plants are removed from the strategic reserve, after the statutory 18-month period. You know that's not true. So I'm worried. Therefore, compared to today's program law's decision, the energy transition is being reduced. The energy pact is not being promoted because it is still at zero in the negotiations. All this is still wind and, for the moment, the wind does not produce electricity without adequate equipment. That's the renewable we want, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say a word about the amendment on flexi-jobs. These have given rise to a lot of negative reactions on the part of the unions in the Horeca. The National Labour Council was against the law. An amendment has been introduced to clarify things, but we are not sure that this is really clearer. The Council of State notes that there has been no consultation on this amendment. It is not so surprising, when we know that the unions were already against the bill, that this amendment did not go through consultation. We are in the presence of a law that is breaking the Belgian social system on two levels: first at the level of the employment contract, which is nevertheless an essential point of our social system and, secondly, at the level of the financing of social security. One might wonder whether flexi-jobs will be extended to sectors other than Horeca. This issue is of great interest not only to the world of work but also to the parties of the majority. Indeed, three of them said they wanted to extend this flexi-job system to sectors other than Horeca, while on the CD&V side, Ms Lanjri said that there was no question of extending the system outside Horeca. She was very clear in committee. On this issue, I see a division between the various partners of the majority. On nuclear rent, good news for Electrabel! We can thank the government and the majority. Two hundred million rents, that leaves a margin of 234 million for Electrabel. That's the difference between the power plant's output and what's going to happen. In summation, Electrabel makes sure, first of all, of the huge profits on plants that have been amortised for a long time and paid for by the population. Secondly, we have a multinational company that receives gifts but does not hesitate to attack the Belgian state when it is asked to recover a small part of the over-profits made on the back of the community. Third, it means that once their old reactors are unavailable, the community pays again. Somewhere, we wonder if the concept of venture capital still plays for Electrabel because it wins every time. When power plants are unavailable by the fault of Electrabel, and a little by the government, because it puts old or cracked power plants back into service, there is a great risk that these plants will at some point calate, it is the population, the community that pays the consequences and the profit of Electrabel is preserved. If one makes a projection over the next ten years, based on the calculations of the CREG, one sees a profit, at 90% of the availability of the park, of about 700 million euros. With a rent of 150 million euros, this means that Electrabel puts 550 million euros in its pocket every year. Over ten years, Electrabel receives a €5.5 billion gift with all the risks involved in extending nuclear power! I think it's expensive, Mr. Friart. Those who are concerned about the interests of the households, but also those who are concerned about the interests of the companies, like you, should put a stop to this operation, to these overprofits of Electrobel because even small companies like yours are victims of this kind of policies since you pay your electricity more expensive. You're producing beer, but there's electricity in it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u53	You're in the process of slipping! Let's go back to electricity, let's go back to the convention! We're just sticking to the 2015 nuclear rent. We will talk about the following years, but this will not be 150 million, but 150 million plus another margin that has already been set and which we will talk about next year! Then you will have the opportunity to return. Do not make incorrect assimilations. Let's just talk about the 200 million for 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u54	Mr Friart, thank you for advising me on what I should say and what I should not say! I simply note that there is a certain gift for this year and that this gift will continue to develop for the years to come. All this in a context where one maintains a rear-guard and dangerous energy. It is recalled that the German authorities said yesterday or the day before yesterday that a very dangerous plant was being set up in Tihange. If we look at the measurement of risk and cost to the community, to meet the needs of an energy multinational, it appears that you are more the advocates of a particular interest than the interests of the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u55	Which government member wishes to respond?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u56	Mr President, this problem has already been discussed many times in committee, but I will reply as regards regularisation. As I said yesterday, it will be discussed with the Regions, the only reason why we withdrew the project. As already pointed out yesterday, regularization, the Cayman tax, and the fight against tax fraud constitute a triangle, which is certainly strengthening within the current international framework. As regards the exclusion of the Bank of New York Mellon and Euroclear, I would point out that these are "banks" whose specific activity is clearing, which does not present conventional banking risks. That is why we have excluded them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u57	Mr President, in response to Mr Gilkinet's question, these points have been raised in committee in detail. I have no problem talking about them again. As far as the Belgian Food Security Fund is concerned, it is well maintained and if it is de-allocated in 2016, only amounts that are no longer needed will be de-allocated, in agreement with the Fund. There is no concern in this regard. With regard to the Ageing Fund, it is the mailbox used to support the Ageing Fund that has not been active since 2007. The parastatal, on the contrary, remains and retains its reserves. In view of your comment on the budgetary objective of simplifying the organic funds, I would point out that the objective cannot be to improve the finances of the State, since all the reserves that are in the organic funds are already part of the dry perimeter. So, on either side, it doesn't change anything! On the contrary, when we count all the costs necessary to upgrade revenue and expenditure, the administrative simplification of the Organic Funds costs us seventy-two million euros. I had already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u58	Mr President, I will keep my reply brief, because this has already been discussed in detail in committee. Mrs Jiroflée, you have a point to make when you say that for patients who have previously delayed medical treatment for financial reasons, and their number is estimated at 8.4 % of our population, a huge improvement has been achieved by the third-payer scheme. An evaluation after one year is included in the coalition agreement. Then we will look at what is still possible for the sickness funds and for our administration. We also have the time limits within which doctors are paid, already considerably reduced, from two to three months to two weeks. It must all be feasible for the administration. In any case, we will carry out an in-depth evaluation after one year, and then look at what needs remain on the ground. Both the poverty associations and the patient platforms think it is a huge step forward. Mr Van Hees, on flexi-jobs, we started on 1 December. We intend to conduct an evaluation later. It seems that it is a great success, it gives the opportunity to many people who were already active in the Horeca, especially in the dark, to settle their situation. As with service titles, it is a matter of changing the black job into declared work, so that people are protected. This is therefore a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u59	In reply to Mr de Lamotte, I repeat that the allocation contribution is a levy which is fixed by the government on the basis of a series of indices which enabled it to fix its own. It is not a tax, as you claim, negotiated with the counterparties that are Electrabel and EDF. Moreover, the Conseil d'État notes in its opinion on the text of the 2015 allocation contribution that it cannot give any further opinion, having no figures relating to profit, cost and unavailability. Unavailability is described and qualified in numerical terms in the justification of the amendment for each power plant, i.e. Doel 3, Tihange 2 and Doel 4. Beyond that, there is no more number. If you wish, in the subsequent review of the allocation contribution, we will do so. But, as you know, every year, at the end of the fiscal year, we make a decision to determine the amount of the apportionment contribution and we still allocate the appropriate unavailability rate for the previous fiscal year, which corresponds to the number of days the plants in the previous fiscal year were unable to operate. It is difficult to go further than that, it is a well-known common. As regards the more economic figures, which are cost figures, they are reflected in the CREG report. They're known. That the Council of State does not know them is special since, if I am not mistaken, this study has been published. The revision of the allocation contribution is part of the government agreement. You know that very well. In the government agreement, the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants, with possibly as a criterion of assessment the return to the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 circuit as well as the interconnection capacity, also reflected the criterion of the revision of the nuclear allocation contribution. It's no coincidence. The government was not distracted. The government has been well aware of the very strong and continuous decline in electricity prices in wholesale markets. He was therefore well aware that at some point, this allocation contribution, which he had set since 2011, with the additional layer of the additional allocation contribution of 350 million, would become confiscatory in relation to the profits generated by the operators producing nuclear electricity. When I say that we will sell electricity and that it will make a profit, it is true. It is a first truth and it is already the case now, whether in summer or at other times. I would point out to you that summer is not necessarily a time when the match between electricity generation and electricity supply and consumption is not a tense flow. This is a time when, at times, the fit is very tense and very difficult between the two. At that time, we rely heavily on interconnection, which, as you know, is always a virtuality and never sure. The wires exist, but the electricity we send there is not certain. Does nuclear emit less CO2 than renewable? Be careful, it emits less than photovoltaic panels. In the order of CO2 emissions, it is the photovoltaic panels that produce electricity that emit the most CO2, then the ones that generate heat, then nuclear, then wind – so renewable in the sense that you would certainly hear it, so there we agree – then, the generation of electricity by hydraulic force emits even less CO2. We will both talk about the strategic reserve earlier, because I did not understand the meaning of your intervention on this subject. On the energy pact, let me have a little bit of a look: you say it's wind, so it'll be good to produce some electricity. But I can tell you it's not wind. I hope this will be used to drive our energy mix for the years to come. This will produce electricity when I finish my work, but don't ask me to have completed such a big project yesterday, when you know very well that I have to develop it with the Regions and that I will still be involved for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u60	Some members wish to reply. Mrs Marghem has the floor. [[Laughs]] Excuse me, Mrs. Gerkens!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u61	It is true that Mrs Marghem and I also share many moments in committee! Madam Minister, I would like to have a clarification on the Belgian Food Security Fund. You said that, in your opinion, it would be maintained. If that is the case, I am delighted. I would therefore like to see real long-term policies pursued for the populations most threatened by food insecurity. However, the Government's intention is to abolish the Fund. This decision shall be postponed for a period of one year. In other words, it is still considered a Fund in Budget 2016. Does your answer consist of saying that it will no longer exist after, or that it will be retained in its characteristics and in its 10-year project? Indeed, we voted every ten years to extend it. With regard to flexi-jobs and flexi-salaries, these provisions seek to redress discrimination in terms of remuneration and fragility of the workers concerned. Minister, we cannot compare their effects with service titles, because they are to deregulate the way workers are allowed to combine work, family and rest. Flexi-jobs increase overtime and do not create sustainable jobs. In addition, the Horeca had requested that measures be taken to keep its workers while trying to give up the black pay that complemented their wages. Apart from the employers of the Horeca located on the coast, in Ostend for example, who employ students and black workers to ensure the peaks of work, those who work in the Horeca in a stable and permanent manner did not ask for such measures. The government does not want to turn black into legal work, but rather to destructure the regulation of working time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, when I was quoting the Council of State, which said that it was not in a position to decide on the figures, it was not insignificant. At our committee on Tuesday, Mr Colmant himself confirmed that he had not had access to either the cost per reactor or the cost of selling production per reactor. It seems random to me. These figures are known from Electrabel and CREG. I hope we get some of these, even if they're confidential. That is the reason for my doubts about your argument. To go back to renewable production, which has been killed by the establishment of the seven nuclear reactors and at all of the nuclear ones that you decide, I would like to point out that if the renewables run at full speed in addition to nuclear power, we will probably find ourselves in the situation of having to sell electricity at negative prices. What is the use of generating electricity to sell it at negative prices? When I mentioned the lighting of the highways in July, it was at noon, not in the middle of the night! So there were some malfunctions on that side. We need to eliminate energy because we produce too much. Indeed, in the event of a significant surplus of electricity from nuclear power, the network does not know how to absorb everything and it is necessary to illuminate the motorways during the noon time. During the summer, everyone has already taken a highway lit during noon time. Let us therefore adopt a proper position in this matter and put the clocks back on time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u63	Anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u64	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1479/14) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1479/14) The draft law has 115 articles. The bill has 115 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u65	Mr President, I apologise for interrupting you, but I did not answer a question. Mind if I take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u66	You may, but at some point the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u67	It's just for information. It's a matter of correction and politeness. The decision has not yet been made. Until proven otherwise, the Fund remains, but it is true that there will be discussions, probably next year, on the future of the Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u68	Amendments have been tabled. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u69	• 3 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (1479/15) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u70	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1458/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1458/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u73	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1457/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1457/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1490/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1490/4) The draft law has 21 articles. The bill has 21 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u80	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1491/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1491-3) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u84	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1492/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1492.3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-17-54-plenair-ip089x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where our work ends this morning. After the oral questions, which start at 14:15, we continue with the other designs. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 December 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 17 December 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
