ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u1	This year, Minister, you have a budget of EUR 227 000, which you are entitled to allocate to bodies, institutions and individuals involved in the promotion of SMEs and the protection of the self-employed, at national or international level. I submitted this interview in August. Perhaps the situation has changed in the meantime, because we have been a few months, but in August you replied to a written question that EUR 130 000 of your annual budget had already been spent on 37 different projects. You framed it, too. It is very striking that of these 37 projects there are 36 French speaking. One Dutch-language project was included. However, the latest information available shows that almost 58% of SMEs are located in the Flemish region, less than 30% in the Walloon region and 13.5% in the Brussels-Capital Region. The most remarkable thing is that, in conclusion to your answer to that written question, you literally said: "Although the geographical criterion is not included in the list of award criteria, an initial interim review, carried out in May, shows that the distribution on that point was fair. I am very curious to hear your interpretation of the word 'fair', because when I look at the figures, the granting of subsidies shows a considerable distortion, even if it is taken into account that only part of the subsidies have so far been granted and some have yet to be distributed. More than half have already been awarded. From the list I can only interpret that there is a clear Community policy in which you clearly favour the south of the country. Minister, I have a number of specific questions. Grants shall be awarded on the basis of applications. What publicity was given to the existence of this project grant in the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking parts of the country? How many applications have you received from Dutch and French-language project applications for the 2015 budget? What is your explanation for the fact that 36 out of 37 projects are French speaking? At least that was the situation on 26 June. My interplay has been filed for some time. What amount goes to the one Dutch project? It is even a Belgian project, when I read the content description. What criteria are used for the approval of projects? What do we have to meet to be eligible for this? I understand that it's not always the very large amounts. It ranges from EUR 1 000 to EUR 35 000. This gives an average amount of EUR 3 516. Every euro you spend in this must be accounted for. I wonder which criteria are to be met in order to be eligible? In the meantime, Minister, we have been a few months. What is the current state of affairs? How many projects have currently been approved and what is their linguistic distribution? Has the barely 3 % allocated to Flemish projects been corrected in the right direction? How many of the grants currently granted go to Dutch-language and French-speaking projects respectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u2	No publicity campaign was organised in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels. This basic allocation is managed by the FPS Economy. The fact that there is no publicity about the existence of the project grant has to do with the limited nature of the envelope that was awarded to me. Nor has the FPS Economy asked me any questions in this respect. For 2015 my cabinet received 2 applications in Dutch and 102 in French. Of these, 1 application in Dutch and 68 applications in French were accepted. The limited number of applications from Dutch-language projects is the direct result of the number of applications submitted in Dutch. It is my job to analyse the grant for the applications and, if necessary, to grant them only on the basis of the files submitted. So I only got two files in Dutch. The Dutch language project received an allowance of 2 500 euros for a requested amount of 3 000 euros. Generally speaking, the sum of the application is very rarely granted, taking into account the limitations of budgetary margins. I would also point out that efforts must be made in many areas within the framework of budgetary savings, decided by the government. Therefore, the optional allowances that my department can grant do not escape. The amount of that basic allocation cannot be compared at all with the resources available to the regions under the grants they grant. The amount available to me is EUR 220 000 in 2015, while in 2014 it was EUR 280 000. It is therefore a decrease of almost 20% compared to last year's figure. With regard to the criteria applied which allow for full objectivity in the analysis of applications, only those dossiers which fully correspond to the title of the budget article formulated by the administration, namely: "Apply to bodies, institutions and persons engaged in the promotion of SMEs and the protection of the self-employed', shall be taken into account. Therefore, these institutions should not be public authorities, only institutions or individuals engaged in the promotion of SMEs and their protection at national level. I would also like to make it clear that I can only grant an allowance on condition that it is necessary for the balance of the subsidised organisation's account and therefore for its financial stability. As for your fifth and sixth questions, I will consult with my administration to see if a promotional campaign is useful. Having said that, I would draw your attention to the amount I have at my disposal. The amount is probably much lower than the cost of a publicity campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I have some comments. You point out that you have a limited budget, and that is correct. However, it must be distributed fairly. The fact that you only receive two applications from the Dutch-speaking side only confirms what is already known in Flanders, that you are a rather unknown minister in Flanders and that it should be given more publicity. A publicity campaign doesn't have to cost a lot of money. There are Secretary of State who also resort to social media. There are very cheap means to reach very targeted SMEs, 60% of which are located in Flanders. Mr President, I will table a motion of recommendation to that effect. There is no need to create additional Community distortions, as there are already sufficient. I know that there is an agreement in this government not to talk about Community affairs and to keep Community peace, but in practice, such matters make the distortions even greater than they already are. Hence our motion for a recommendation, Mr President, asking for this distortion to be corrected. By giving more publicity to it, at least there will be applications from the Flemish side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, - whereas, on the date of 26 June 2015, 97% of the eligible initiatives were French-speaking and only 3% Dutch-speaking, through the budget heading 'grants to bodies, institutions and persons engaged in the promotion of SMEs and the protection of self-employed persons at national or international level'; - whereas 57,6% of SMEs in this country are located in the Flemish Region, 28,9% in the Walloon Region and 13,5% in the Brussels-Capital Region; - whereas this shows that there is a flagrant distortion in the granting of federal grants to initiatives to promote SMEs; calls on the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration to take all measures to ensure that these allowances are distributed fairly among the Regions before the financial year 2015." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, [[-]] Whereas, as at 26 June 2015, 97 % of the initiatives which received grants through the budget item "Grants to national or international bodies, institutions and persons concerned with the promotion of SMEs and the defence of the self-employed" were French-speaking, compared with only 3 % of Dutch-speaking initiatives; Whereas 57.6% of SMEs in this country are located in the Flemish Region, 28.9% in the Walloon Region and 13.5% in the Brussels-Capital Region; - Whereas these figures reveal a clear imbalance in the granting of federal subsidies to SME promotion initiatives; asks the Minister of Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration to take all appropriate measures to ensure that these subsidies are distributed equally and proportionately among the Regions, again for the 2015 budget year." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart, Johan Klaps and Egbert Lachaert. A simple motion was tabled by Ms.Leen Dierick and Messrs. Benoît Friart, Johan Klaps and Egbert Lachaert. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u5	Mr President, Minister, last April, a protocol between the Belgian and Chinese food security agencies allowed a few Belgian pork producers to sell their products on the Chinese market. However, following a review by the Chinese authorities, only a limited number of Belgian companies had been authorised to export. Recently, you visited the area to sign a memorandum to expand these pig exports. This memorandum provides for a further inspection visit to assess the national production system and to expand the list of establishments and the list of products that could now take the silk route to the vast market of China. An opportunity for Belgian companies in the sector! Minister, how many Belgian pigmeat producers are currently selling on the Chinese market? What is the distribution between the different regions? What increase can be expected as a result of this memorandum? What are the main criteria for opening up to this market? Who can stand in the way? Are any initiatives envisaged for the next monitoring visit? What is the situation with regard to other types of meat, beef and poultry in particular? How do our agricultural products rank in the export market in China?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u6	This extends our discussions with the sector and the Minister on the difficulties of the pig sector in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u7	Mr President, honourable Member, in 2014, Belgium exported 700,305 tonnes of frozen and frozen fresh pork; 93,94 % of these exports were destined for the EU market and 6,06 % were exported to third countries. The total value of these exports was EUR 1.274 billion. Over the past 10 years, exports have increased by an average of 2.1% per year in volume terms. By comparison, in 2004, 571,307 tonnes of Belgian pigmeat were exported amounting to EUR 1,019 billion. I will give you the numbers as for all my encrypted answers so that everyone can be comfortable with the notes as well as for the report. The export of fresh, frozen and frozen pork to China amounts to 3,111 tonnes, or €4.3 million in 2014. This is only 0.44% of the total Belgian export of these products. However, the share of exports to third countries rose to 7.3%. I will also give you the figures 10 years ago, as well as in the intermediate years. In China, total meat consumption increased by no less than 26% during the period 2007-2014. In 2013, the total world value of imports of processed and unprocessed agricultural products into China was €74.8 billion, an increase of 37% over 2011. For the same product category, the European Union exported in 2013 for €6.1 billion to China. The total volume of agricultural exports to China from the European Union increased by 64% between 2011 and 2013. For Belgium, exports of processed and unprocessed agricultural products to China in 2013 amounted to EUR 135.3 million, an increase of 85% compared to 2011. However, these EUR 135 million represent in value only 0.18% of China's total imports for this product category. There was, of course, a need to work together to change this situation. The three most important products exported from Belgium to China are cocoa products (chocolate), dairy products (milk, concentrated cream, whey) and beverages (including beer). As regards the development of the health dossier on pigmeat exports, I can inform you of the following: only five Belgian establishments were approved by the Chinese authorities for the export of pigmeat following the inspection visit of the Chinese authorities in 2011. Three of these establishments are located in Flanders and two in Wallonia. The signing of a memorandum with the Chinese authorities in June 2015 added seven Belgian companies to the list of previously approved companies. The list adapted by the Chinese authorities was published on 2 October 2015. AFSCA transmitted the list of all certifying agents to the Chinese authorities so that they could inform their inspection posts. The memorandum also opens the possibility of a further inspection visit before the end of this year, which will aim to increase the number of companies authorised by the Chinese authorities and to diversify the categories of products that can be exported to China. To this end, on 14 October, AFSCA sent a letter to its Chinese counterparts with 33 applications for Belgian establishments, including 20 new applications. The AFSCA has not yet received a proposal from this inspection date but remains in contact, with my support, with the Chinese services concerned, including through our embassy in Beijing. In order to gain access to the Chinese market, an establishment must first apply European legislation. It must then meet the additional requirements, e.g. the separation of the pigmeat production chain from the beef production chain. Certain requirements may complicate access to the Chinese market for specific product categories. I am thinking of the microbiological criteria which establishments must meet if they wish to be able to export offal or the fifth district, which may require the adaptation of the specific production processes for the applicant establishments. A very active collaboration between the AFSCA and the Febev sectoral federation, on the one hand, and between the AFSCA and the Chinese authorities, on the other, is aimed at preparing the candidate establishments for this future inspection visit as best as possible. Various documents have also been developed by the Febev as well as a specific monitoring to help applicant institutions take the necessary steps to meet Chinese requirements. As far as this development is concerned, China's requirements have therefore not become less severe, but today more Belgian companies, following the process we have set up, can meet it because they have taken the appropriate measures. AFSCA has also shown the Chinese authorities that our new working procedures offer all the necessary guarantees to meet China's food security demands. Finally, a market opening procedure has also been initiated by the AFSCA, with my support, with regard to poultrymeat and beef. The procedure desired by our Chinese counterparts for opening up these markets involves many steps. As regards poultrymeat, AFSCA completed the questionnaire submitted by the Chinese authorities and submitted it in September 2014. We are waiting for feedback from the competent Chinese service. As far as beef is concerned, the AFSCA received last May the questionnaire – more specifically a considerable dossier – to be completed. She's working hard on it. All of these issues are discussed during each AFSCA visit to China and during every contact I have with different Chinese interlocutors. I mentioned them with my Chinese colleagues during my visit to China and during meetings with the Chinese Ambassador to Belgium. Above all, it must be stressed that a very large proportion of total pigmeat imports come from intra-Community trade. In any case, be sure that I really mobilize to the maximum that we can open the Chinese market for pork, beef, poultry, etc. Moreover, it is known that the price of pigmeat has decreased further. I met again last week with representatives of agricultural organisations. The situation is really very worrying. Openness to China is therefore one element; openness to other countries is another. The attempt to lift the health embargo with Russia is yet another, alongside various structural measures to be taken at European, national and regional level. But this is not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u8	Mr Blanchart, I shall now give you the floor for a reply that will be detailed, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u9	Absolutely, Mr. President. And I'm sure you'll be joining me as far as, in any case, part of my line. Minister, the figures speak for themselves. The statistics are really very clear. The economic potential is enormous. The issue of development is equally so. Given the economic stakes involved, we can only encourage you to continue your contacts and expand this process so that our quality agri-food products are exported to China. As you mentioned, the Russian embargo is expensive for all of Europe, and therefore for our country. This is a way to partially compensate for the loss we suffer as a result of this embargo and to work towards the economic development of our regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u10	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, on February 7, 2014, the Council of Ministers approved a bill authorizing the rounding of cents of the amount of a multiple payment of 5 nearest to the price charged. At the time, 8 out of 10 traders were in favour according to the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI). The aim was, in the long term, to eliminate the 1 and 2 cent coins which burden consumers and whose nominal value was less than the cost of production. That being the case, this law concerned only payments in cash. This authorization did not apply to electronic payments. Therefore, many traders do not adjust under penalty of harming the final consumer who would pay a different price on a means of payment in cash or by electronic means, which is also prohibited by law. Thus, according to the magazine L'Indépendant, only 12 per cent of traders are now rounding it to 0 or 5 cents. In addition, some of these 12 per cent used rounding before the recent bill. Minister, I tabled my question on July 7. I'll be able to update it a little bit. Through my question, I asked your opinion on the extension of this principle of borough but for electronic payments. Since then, I have read in the press, in particular on 3 August, that the Minister of Finance, Mr Johan Van Overtveldt, is preparing a text to extend this measure to electronic payments. Minister, what evaluation can be given to the system that has been in place since the February 7, 2014 bill? How do you look at this measure? What is the status of your Finance colleague's text on the enlargement of electronic payments? I imagine you're working together. Do you think it can really improve the follow-up by traders on the 2014 bill? Can you take stock of this issue and set out the remaining steps in its legislative process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u11	Madam Member, indeed, when the opportunity for traders to round up the amounts to be paid to the nearest 0 or 5 cents came into force on 1 October 2014, it was agreed that this measure should be assessed. It was agreed that this measure should be evaluated after two years of practice. We're just ahead of this device. The evaluation has not yet been conducted. It is still a little premature in view of the coming into force, especially since, as you rightly say, you were successful before you even asked your question. As you pointed out, a bill extending this measure to electronic payments is being introduced by my colleague the Minister of Finance and will be before Parliament in the coming months. There is no doubt that the removal of this difference in treatment between means will be an important element in encouraging as many traders and businesses as possible to join this new system. This will be evaluated. It is well known that everything concerning the daily lives of traders and self-employed people must be thoroughly analysed in consultation with their representative structures. It is still early to carry out this exercise all the more so since the introduction of the electronic payments scheme by my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt will have an impact on membership of the scheme. If you would like to rest this question in a while, we will have the opportunity to deepen it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u12	Minister, it is my pleasure to come back to you. Do you already have an idea of timing with respect to the bill that is being drafted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u13	Honestly, I didn't have the curiosity to question my colleague to see what his timing was, since it was the Minister of Finance who was piloting. But I will, of course, and I will tell you what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u14	Mr President, almost 70% of women entrepreneurs find it difficult to combine family and professional activities, according to a survey by the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI). According to the same survey, 56% of women entrepreneurs work between 40 and 60 hours a week. In Belgium, the number of women entrepreneurs increased by 2.3% between 2013 and 2014. This can be clearly welcomed, but it is essential to think about it in order to take steps accordingly to continue to enable women to engage in entrepreneurial activity. However, the findings of the survey inform us that without their companion and without the elimination of free time and leisure, it would be almost impossible to reconcile the world of entrepreneurship with that of a successful family life. Minister, how do you look at this investigation? According to the Commission, 8 per cent of women entrepreneurs made a burn-out last year. Does this figure differ among men? The number of women entrepreneurs in 2014 is increasing compared to 2013. What about previous years? What measures will you put in place to support women entrepreneurs? The survey referred to proposals for measures to be taken, such as the extension of the use of service vouchers for the reception of children or the establishment of an effective temporary replacement system. Do you intend to use these proposals and translate them into concrete measures? Of course, this requires a global reflection at different levels of power and therefore do you intend to set up a round table bringing together the various competent ministers, both federal and regional? Is this kind of thinking in your close-up projects? I think this is an important issue. According to some figures, female entrepreneurs have 30% less risk of bankruptcy than their male counterparts. I therefore think that this is an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u15	I will give you two introductory words to put my approach in this area. We have a low overall rate of entrepreneurship in our home. In my approach, there is support for entrepreneurship in a comprehensive way: training, making status more robust, access to capital measures, etc. Regardless of the general measures I have just given you the framework, there are target groups, i.e. situations in the entrepreneurial world that require more specific consideration. Among these target groups, I place student entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship at the feminine level, and entrepreneurship for older people, which is also a real debate. For each of the specific groups, in consultation with Parliament and the representative structures, my intention is to come before you or the government with a series of measures to respond to observations, difficulties and specificities. With regard to women's entrepreneurship, as well as the measures that could be taken, you note that I mentioned this concern in the policy note tabled before your Parliament. The various investigations carried out, including recent requests from the NIS and others, are very illuminating in this regard. More specific requests are made to me, in particular to better reconcile family and work commitments as an entrepreneur in order to adapt maternity leave or to deal with other situations. So I agree with these observations and, as I said earlier on maternity leave, I will propose future adjustments to respond to these types of situations. A wide-ranging consultation will take place in the next few weeks with all the representative structures and the various active structures in the field of representation of women entrepreneurship. With regard to burn-out in particular for self-employed workers, this is an important issue that I also care about. As is well known, self-employed and self-employed people are very involved in their professional activity. This is often heavy and can lead to a number of situations where the health of the self-employed is affected. In appropriate terms, we find ourselves in a favourable context in relation to burn-out. The fact of working passionately, often alone, not counting his hours, on the weekend, in the uncertainty of a number of parameters, to make regular periods of work overload... All these elements, according to the medical description I am given, create psychosocial risks. Therefore, in this context, I am not surprised that 8% of respondents to this survey consider themselves to be in burn-out condition. If I am not surprised, this figure is also particularly intriguing and shocking. At the initiative of my predecessor, Ms. Laruelle, a study had already been commissioned by the SPF Economy to quantify this exposure of self-employed workers to psychosocial risks. An investigation has been carried out. The results are based on 1 950 responses. The result of the FPS Economy survey was that 34.4% of the self-employed consider themselves to be in a situation of job exhaustion: 33.9% for women and 34.8% for men; 12.9% for self-employed (12.3% for women and 13.4% for men). On the other hand, we can estimate that the risks affect a considerable number of self-employed people and, according to this study, men and women alike. Over the last thirty years - I answer your question on the number of independent and caring taxable women - the number of independent women has steadily increased. In 2004 alone, a very slight decrease in the number of taxable women was observed. The trend among men is relatively similar. Among them, a slight decrease was observed from 2009 to 2012, but generally an increase. Here are some figures. Over a 30-year period, the number of women subject to the Act increased from 168,050 in 1984 to 349,100 in 2014, an increase of 181,000. The number of subject men was 489,105 in 1984, compared with 666,722 in 2014, an increase of 177,610. We therefore note a very upward trend among women and in percentages, more significantly. On the other hand, with regard to the status of self-employed persons, it seems to me useful to evaluate existing arrangements such as, for example, the system of service vouchers which do not cover childcare services, even though competence has been regionalised; to evaluate maternity leave arrangements and, more generally, to take innovative measures to better balance family, personal and professional commitments. Here I have a whole series of statistics in support of my reply, which I would like to attach to the report and transmit to Mrs Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u16	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer and for the appendices that we will attach to our documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u17	Minister, thank you for these very comprehensive answers. I've had a lot of answers to my questions about the findings. I have not yet heard the solutions and actions you are considering. I have heard that this is included in your projects and that you are going to come up with innovative proposals in this area. Be aware that the Social Emancipation Committee would be happy to help you and that we could look at the proposals that you would submit to us. I am Chair of the House Emancipation Committee and it would be a great pleasure if we could work together on these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Winckel. We take note of this proposal for collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u19	Mr President, Minister, some time has elapsed since my question was tabled on July 16. I'll book it to you as it was written at the time. Belgian farmers are facing a major drought, resulting from a water deficit since the beginning of spring and the recent heat wave. Crops suffer, crops are very late, animals lack food in pastures and farmers will also face a shortage of fodder later in the year. The rain that has fallen on the country for a few days is not enough. It would take a lot of water for several weeks, although this would have a negative impact on the next cereal harvest. My question is simple: what solutions can be envisaged to help farmers in distress? That being said, Mr. Chairman, we had many discussions in which I participated during the summer, in August in particular. I would therefore understand if the minister were to synthesize his answer. Moreover, it seems to me that this question could have been removed. It seems to me to have touched on it in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u20	Mr President, I will be brief. Mrs Jadin, the spring drought, which was quite severe, mainly affected the herbag regions. As time has passed since your question was tabled, this gives us the opportunity to examine the consequences on the production of cereals and beets – as the harvest season is well under way. The impact was corrected by subsequent weather conditions. On the other hand, drought in herbarium areas could not be softened. I therefore believe it is important for farmers – if they have not already done so – to be able to make use of the drought provisions that local communes and agricultural commissions can activate, so that they can apply for the Fund for public agricultural disasters. That's the advice I gave to many of them. It will then be up to the regional authorities, which are now competent in this field, to position themselves. Finally, this aspect will have to be taken into account when setting the tax scales for the year in question during the negotiations that are traditionally conducted between agricultural organisations and the Ministry of Finance. For the rest of the matter, I refer to the discussions we have had about the agricultural crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u21	Minister, thank you for your pro-activity. Your answer is reassuring and cross-checks some of the echoes I've collected recently. I hope that we can see in January that the damage will have been limited as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 5962 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u23	Mr President, Minister, my questions are somewhat outdated. They were drawn up a long time ago. The draft law that has just been discussed is partly an answer to my questions. Nevertheless, I would like to ask my questions in order to show how important it is for something to be done about poverty in the self-employed. The Neutral Syndicate for Self-Employees published worrying figures over the past summer. As much as 16.6 % of all self-employed persons in main occupation earned less than 10 000 euros per year in 2014, amounting to 833 euros per month or an amount well below the European poverty line. The NSZ rightly points out that a better social status and safety net for the self-employed must quickly be established. I myself have pointed this out several times and put forward proposals on this subject. Minister, where are the plans to strengthen the social status of the self-employed? Of course, we received the answer earlier. In which areas do you want to work specifically? Would it not be appropriate, with your fellow Minister for Combating Poverty, to make a tailor-made plan for poverty among self-employed people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I am not normally a member of the Committee on Business. However, I am taking up the issue of poverty for our group. That is why you must excuse me if I do not know what was discussed here last week or so. That's why I'm asking my question. Research carried out by the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed has indeed shown that one self-employed person out of six in the main occupation deserves a lot less than the European poverty threshold, which is EUR 1 074 for a single person. This analysis shows that 114 878 self-employed persons in main occupation, 16.6 % of all self-employed persons, earned less than 10 000 euros per year last year or 833 euros per month. The Federal Yearbook Poverty in Belgium also shows that 15% of Belgians live in poverty. A study carried out by Professor Lambrecht in collaboration with Unizo also shows that the self-employed also have the same percentage as the general percentage. 15% of the self-employed live in structural poverty. My questions are as follows. First, in your SME plan, you provide for several proposals to support SME debt securities. Proposal No. 13 deals with poverty reduction. What specific measures will you take for the self-employed in this respect? Secondly, the federal government agreement we have concluded also includes the drafting of a federal multi-annual plan. That is, of course, a responsibility for Secretary of State Sleurs. She had promised to submit that plan to Parliament after the summer recess.Will that timing be respected? Will concrete measures be taken in its action plan, probably in consultation with you as the competent minister, to combat poverty among the self-employed? If so, what measures will be included in the plan submitted by the government? Is there a timing foreseen for these measures? I ask you because I assume that you are the Minister responsible. Of course, you are working with the coordinating minister, but you must have given your input to the Secretary of State. Finally, according to the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed persons, there is a need for a thorough adjustment of the social status of self-employed persons in order to tackle poverty in that group. For example, there is a need for the conversion of bankruptcy insurance into a bridging allowance. I think I recall that this was also included in the coalition agreement. More emphasis should also be placed on the resumption of activities. You would take initiatives on this. What's the status? Can we expect from you a number of initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u25	Mr President, Minister, we have just received a statement. I will not repeat everything, but under Axis 2 in your SME plan, Articles 11 to 18 list a number of possibilities for improving the social status of entrepreneurs and promoting entrepreneurship. I have the following questions. What articles are addressed as a priority in order to improve the social status of self-employed workers? Have you already sat around the table with the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty to discuss the problem of poverty among self-employed people? If so, can you give us more explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, familiar with the figures of the NSZ based on the statistics of the RSVZ. The study by Professor Lambrecht of the University of Brussels to which you refer analyses the net income of the self-employed in the main occupation over the period 1998-2006. The study covered a long period of time because the income of the self-employed varies considerably. Indeed, a large number of them may be below the poverty line one year above and the other, without really being considered poor. According to the study, 49% of the self-employed have been below the poverty threshold at least once, while 15% of the self-employed in the main occupation live in structural poverty. In addition, my general policy paper and the SME plan provide for measures that directly or indirectly enable poverty reduction in the self-employed. Proposal No. 13, to which reference is made, does indeed provide for the fight against poverty by improving the procedure for exemption from social security contributions and rationalising the Commission's operation for exemption from contributions. Some of these measures have already been taken. Of the various measures planned or already taken, I can quote the following. Firstly, the improvement of the procedure for exemption from contributions and the rationalisation of the Commission's operation for exemption from contributions. From 2015, self-employed persons who have obtained an exemption from contributions may regularise the exempted contribution and thus open pension rights for the exempted quarters. Secondly, the equalization of the minimum pension for self-employed persons as a single person and of a survivor's pension for self-employed persons with that of employed persons. This alignment will be completed on 1 August 2016. A first increase took place on 1 April 2015. Thirdly, the extension of bankruptcy insurance to cases of cessation for economic reasons. The ABC has already delivered its evaluation report on social insurance in the event of bankruptcy this summer. In particular, the Committee concluded that the insurance scheme is too limited today. It adds that the Committee would like the system to be open to self-employed persons who should formally stop their activity because of economic difficulties. That was the design. In parallel, the draft that has been submitted to you today serves as a legal basis for this extension and also changes the name of bankruptcy insurance to bridge law. Fifth, encouraging the resumption of activity and the modernisation of incapacity for work. Since 1 July 2015, the system of authorised activity for self-employed persons in disability and disability has been reformed and simplified. At the end of 2014, I also took measures to support self-employed persons whose agricultural or horticultural business experienced difficulties as a result of the Russian embargo. These farmers could, for example, obtain a delay in paying their social contributions without applying increases for late payments. These support measures were extended until the social contributions for the second quarter of 2016, following the decision of the Russian Government to extend the embargo. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. Together with other measures, the tax-shift measures will gradually reduce the rate of social contributions of the self-employed to 22% in 2015 and 20.5 % in 2018. As regards the poverty reduction plan, as Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, SMEs Agriculture and Social Integration, I want this plan to produce results as soon as possible. I would particularly like to improve the supervision of the self-employed in difficulty, with the coordination and support of existing counselling measures, of course in consultation with Mr Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u27	Minister, these dramatic figures are unbelievable. Self-employed people usually work much more hours than employees, so they deserve at least butter on their sandwiches. We are already on the right track with our draft law and I welcome the extension of the withdrawal insurance for economic reasons, as I said earlier. I will continue to stand up for the self-employed who live in poverty and so I will continue to follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u28	Mr Minister, since I am not a permanent member of this committee, I have missed the specific discussions, but I am pleased that a draft law has been discussed today, which addresses the concerns of majority and opposition, in order to address poverty among all target groups, including the self-employed. The measures taken are in line with what, among other things, the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed persons has asked for, and concern, inter alia, the transformation of bankruptcy insurance into a bridging benefit. I believe that it is important to monitor this carefully so that we can check whether this will reduce the poverty of the self-employed. If necessary, additional measures should be taken in addition to those adopted today. I would point out that additional measures are necessary, because it is not enough to reconcile the pension of a self-employed person with that of a worker. We must also ensure that pensions are generally sufficiently high. Our pensions are not far from the European poverty line. Additional efforts will certainly have to be made for family pensions. If we want to improve the situation of everyone, including the self-employed, then we will also have to take measures in a number of other areas, which are not within your remit. You have not been able to give me a very specific answer to the question of when the Federal Action Plan on Combating Poverty will be implemented. You've been a part of that. Do you have any idea of the timing, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u29	You must ask my colleague, Mrs Sleurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u30	I understand that you still need to discuss this with her. I hope you will include your measures in her plan. I will continue to question the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As for the last part of my second question, whether you have already consulted Secretary of State Sleurs, I am still a little hungry, but I have heard that you will consult with her. So I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u32	Minister, a number of universities and colleges have students who are also entrepreneurs. They have the student entrepreneur's status, which is very successful. However, the statute is not officially recognised. This is how discussions about this statute arise. Is one self-employed in an auxiliary occupation? Should this statute be placed with the student jobs? In proposal 18 of the SME Plan, the government will examine the status of student entrepreneur with a view to launching an entrepreneurship project. To my previous questions No. 4089 and No. You replied as follows: 4355. I would like to have a reflection exercise on the improvement of this legislation at the level of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. I hope I can make a global proposal for October. After all, I am convinced that it is important to help those young people who often feel like taking action and taking action, while a series of obstacles prevent them from doing so, such as social pressure, pressure from parents or the fear of not having income in the short term. I also think it is appropriate to consider the impact on family allowances, of course in negotiations with the Länder. The tax statutes must also be examined." Minister, have you already had a reflection exercise at the level of the General Management Committee? Have you had a meeting with the relevant ministers in the Länder? Has the overall proposal which you intend to present in October been put into practice? If so, in what direction would this proposal go?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u33	Mr Janssen, I note that the issue of the student entrepreneur is very close to your heart and I can only welcome that. As has already been said in the answer to your previous question on the subject, our country must absolutely promote entrepreneurship, especially during the studies that our young people are preparing for working life. As far as your first question is concerned, not yet. There is currently a reflection exercise on the improvements to be made to the current legislation. The results will be submitted to the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed in the coming weeks. Secondly, as regards the announced consultation with the Länder, I can tell you that a certain number of informal contacts have taken place with them. Thirdly, I am looking together with my cabinet at a series of ideas relating to the contribution rate which I would like to submit to the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. Finally, I repeat, as I have already said, that an improved status of and for student entrepreneurs will make it possible to increase the number of entrepreneurs in our country. You can count on me to contribute to that. I think I'll have a proposal ready by February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I see that there is still a great deal of work to be done to bring this statute about at last. I'm glad you mentioned a date around February. So you know that by February I will be with you with new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u35	Madam President, Minister, according to my information, independent mothers do not yet have the same rights as paid mothers with regard to the duration of maternity leave. The press has also echoed this in a very interesting way. While the Government has already adapted the family allowances of children of independent parents to the allowances of children of employed parents, independent mothers are not yet on an equal footing, particularly with regard to the treatment of maternity leave. Minister, my questions on this subject are as follows. Can we expect an alignment in the treatment of maternity leave during this legislature? If so, when will independent mothers be able to rely on this alignment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u36	As Mrs Fonck is not present, her question No. 6435.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u37	Mrs Jadin, I would first like to make the following points. As we know, the differences you mention are still, alas, existing, and I would like to remedy this situation. Let us recall the situation for both regimes. With regard to the self-employed, there is a mandatory period of three weeks of maternity rest, one week before birth and two weeks after birth, plus an optional period of five weeks, six weeks in case of multiple births. This optional period can be taken via one or more periods of seven calendar days within 23 weeks of birth. In view of these factors, it must be noted that maternity rest is different but has been designed with some flexibility in relation to practicality and compatibility with professional activity. The maternity allowance for self-employed persons amounts to 449,32 euros gross per week, i.e. 1 797,28 euros for four weeks. This amount has recently been adjusted like others following the adjustment of the 2015-2016 welfare allowances. It is higher than the other standard social benefits minimum pension and allowances the amount of which is based on the minimum pension. We have mentioned some of these in our debate on the bill. The average monthly income of the self-employed on a principal basis is 1,653 euros net. It should also be noted that young independent mothers are also entitled to 105 service titles with a value of 9 euros and a validity period of 8 months. Self-employed on maternity leave must pay their contributions during their maternity rest period. However, this has been balanced since, following the reform of the method of calculating social contributions, both self-employed and self-employed people can now request to calculate their contributions on the basis of their presumed income from the previous year. However, it is clear that these provisions can and should be improved in the future. Different views have been expressed in this respect in the past, notably the opinion of the ABC (Belgian Competition Authority) which, as early as 2009, submitted an opinion in the framework of a document of 25 June 2009 on the reconciliation between family life and self-employment, order of priority of the measures. In this context, the assimilation of self-employed maternity leave with maternity leave into the paid scheme had been analysed. At the time, the cost of this measure had been estimated at EUR 5,922 million for a one-quarter assimilation. It is therefore necessary to multiply this amount by four in order to have an annual projection and to update it. In the same report, the General Management Committee had classified the introduction of paternity leave as a possible measure, but the least important or least priority for them. In concrete terms, I intend, in particular following the agreement of government, parliamentary inquiries, the findings I have made, the demands that have been conveyed to me by the representative organisations, to propose to you a modification of the maternity scheme for self-employed workers and to bring it into force as of 2017. Until then, I will ensure that the necessary consultations are carried out in such a way that this mechanism is well adapted, on the one hand, to the needs of the mothers concerned, but also, on the other hand, to the combination with the specific nature of the self-employed professional activity. Of course, in our reflections, we will not fail to keep in mind all the developments in our society in the organization of families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u38	Minister, thank you. I am very pleased to have been the only one asking this question to receive very encouraging answers. We were talking earlier about female entrepreneurship with Mrs Winckel. This is an answer which would certainly have been of great interest to him, certainly as regards matters of social emancipation. I can only commend the efforts that are being made. We have been trying for years at MR level to improve the status of young independent mothers. The fact that there is an evolution at this level is very enriching. The fact that the Commission could still intervene in the near future is even more gratifying. I won't fail to mention it. You know that, minister, I will be with you to support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on September 23, 2015, the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) issued a press release following the change, since January, of the calculation of the social contributions of the self-employed, which is now made on the income of the current year and no longer on the income of the previous year. The UCM welcomes the progress and speaks of a positive assessment of this measure nine months after its entry into force. The self-employed are satisfied, the requests for exemption to the ad hoc committee are in decline by half and the income of the social security of the self-employed is, in mid-year, higher than that of 2014. The UCM, however, called for more work on this issue, pointing to the rigidity of the system, namely the reduction thresholds. Thus, the UCM calls for a correction of this rigidity as early as 2016 by adding at least a set of additional thresholds, even by removing this threshold system, granting reductions on the basis of accounting elements. Minister, what is the status of the analysis of this proposal at this stage? Are there any other leads on the table? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the reform of the calculation of social contributions for self-employed workers came into force in January 2015. The self-employed person now has the option of paying either the amount proposed by his social insurance fund on a quarterly basis, or a higher amount if he considers that his income for the year is higher, or, after agreement with his social insurance fund, a lower amount if he considers that he is experiencing a decline in income. After nine months, this initiative seems very positive because it is much better suited to the real situation of the self-employed. The law provides that, at your initiative, an evaluation may be carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers within four years of its entry into force. However, according to the UCM, a flat persists: reduction thresholds. Indeed, it is not enough to demonstrate a decrease in its income to pay less, it must be passed under one of the two thresholds of 12,870 euros and 25,740 euros. For example, in the case of a decrease in income from €70,000 to €30,000, the adjustment can only be made at regularisation. The MCU therefore proposes to add thresholds or to remove existing thresholds. Minister, when did you plan an evaluation of the reform of the calculation of social contributions for self-employed workers? Is an adaptation of the law to respond to the UCM's suggestion on the agenda? Have any other elements been identified that need to be adapted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u41	Mr President, Mr Friart, Mr de Lamotte, this is a fundamental reform. I would like to stress all the work done by my predecessor and the importance of the decision taken by this Parliament. The government agreement provides that the new method of calculating social contributions will be assessed as provided for by law and "we will ensure", he says, "that social contributions correspond to the current economic situation of the self-employed as much as possible". The agreement therefore provides for a margin to work not only in the assessment but also in the orientation by matching as much as possible the contributions to the current economic situation of the self-employed. The findings you make are correct. It's mid-November. At this stage, I am very pleased with the findings. Indeed, the number of requests for exemption or exemption from the ad hoc committee is dramatically decreasing. It's an important factor. Receipts are on the rise and we must rejoice. Contributions change positively at this stage of the year. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the scheme provides that the self-employed have until the end of the year to request the correction of these contributions throughout the year. At the end of the year, the possibility is also available to change these upward contributions and to do so for the whole year that has so decided in the last quarter of a change in these contributions, but does not apply only in the last quarter and can go so far as to cover part of the year 2015. Also, it seems to me very wise to wait a few days, a few weeks at most to have the photograph confirmed and above all to examine whether this possibility of last moment in the year 2015 is used by the independents and if so, in what way. Among the possibilities on our table is to add thresholds, modify them or delete them as you mention it. We need to measure the impact of each of these elements as well as the modification of these thresholds and have budgetary projections – we are talking about considerable financial masses – that are sufficiently robust and validated. As you know, a monitoring committee with all stakeholders is monitoring the implementation of this reform and the evolution of receipts. My department regularly transmits to all the interlocutors the figures as communicated to us. This monitoring committee, in which I have had the opportunity to participate personally and in which my staff are constantly involved, will present me with proposals. On this basis, I will take an attitude in consultation with the representative organisations in relation to these various elements. I propose a subsequent appointment before your committee, if you wish, with inquiries or questions in order to take stock of the overall vision of the year 2015: evolution of the paid masses, causes of this evolution, possibilities for correction. A little prematurely, Mr Werner Janssen asked a question about the change in contributions. I propose to address this issue in the light of this overall point on the interim assessment of the new system of contributions and the desired changes and adaptations concerning certain situations of the past as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u42	Minister, as you say, it would be better to wait until the year ends in order to understand all the consequences and draw conclusions. We'll talk about it again next year. In general, I congratulate you on all the action you are taking in favour of the self-employed and SMEs, as well as on your genuine commitment to continuously improving the status of the self-employed through all the measures you take and we follow. This is very useful for the self-employed, many in the country, who are part of the engine of our economic activity. Congratulations, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u43	Mr President, I thank the Minister. If I could get the written version of his answer, it would make it easier for me. Since he's proposing an appointment, I'm always there when I'm given one about themes that interest me. We will return to this issue at the next re-entry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, Article 171, 4°, (i) provides for a reduced tax rate for aid from the European Commission, which compensates for income losses as a result of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Initially, this rate was set at 16.5 per cent, but was then reduced to 12.5 per cent. The latest CAP reform, which came into force in 2015, has changed the nomenclature of direct aid. Thus, "single payment entitlements" have become "basic payment entitlements" and "milking cow subsidies" have become "coupled aid". In order to ensure that this change in nomenclature will not have an impact on the payment of these premiums, an amendment to the Tax Code is necessary. Otherwise, the reduced rate may no longer be applied. Minister, have you contacted the Minister of Finance to resolve this problem? Is there an adaptation of the legislation to ensure that our farmers are reassured on this issue by 31 December 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u45	Mr. de Lamotte, you're right. We're aware of the situation you're describing. It had also been identified since the drafting and implementation of the exemption provisions that we adopted through the programme law, at the end of 2014, which perpetuates these indefinite tax exemptions. At the time, we made it clear that these exemptions would be applied to the aid concerned even with a change in terminology. We could not yet clarify this terminology since it is dependent on the regional authorities and was not yet known in 2014. In addition, you are right when you indicate that this file is important. This is a tax reduction of EUR 20 million per year for the agricultural sector. In these difficult times, but at all times, it would obviously be absurd that it could not be applied because of changes in names and terms in the programmes. Logically, contacts have been established between the Minister of Finance's office and mine to resolve this issue. An ad hoc working group has even been set up to take account of the adaptations in the preparation of the law on various provisions in tax matters. In this regard, we have also been in touch with the legal services of agricultural organizations. This working group met in particular on 16 September 2015. A consensus was reached between representatives of agricultural organizations, my colleague's representative, the Minister of Finance, and my representative. The agricultural organizations made their final remarks at the beginning of October and the office of the Minister of Finance is now in a position to finalize a text that will appear in a law containing various provisions, as soon as possible. We are following this very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u46	Like me, Minister! I imagine that it will be before December 31, 2015, so that the entry into force can be done in the agreed terms and deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u47	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u48	I'll be very attentive when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u49	Minister, I do not need to go back to the crisis our farmers are going through in the dairy, pig or sugar sectors. A few days before the Libramont Fair, you have announced a battery of measures that constitute the federal response to the deep crisis in the agricultural sector. These measures include some or all of the issues that fall within the competence of the federated entities. I am thinking in particular of the development of a Belgian appellation of origin and of measures to develop contracting and marketing. What initiatives do you intend to take specifically? In what time frame? Have any contacts been made to involve the Regions in these reflections? Have you already analysed how to comply with the relevant European provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u50	Indeed, in our various agricultural meetings in this committee, we have had the opportunity to discuss certain aspects of this issue, but I am happy to come back to answer your question. Among the ideas launched was my action plan of 23 July, in which I pleaded that we could have a better identification of our products, make them better known to consumers, behind a name that could be a common name, like food.be or other identification elements. With regard to encouraging the internal consumption of our products, I must first point out that this work is being done on two levels. First of all at European level, where in the programme proposed to us by the European Commissioner, there is a chapter on "Encouragement for domestic consumption". To do this, it is extremely important that our traceability, environmental and health standards are very strict, guaranteeing food safety. It is therefore important to value the image of our products by explaining quality to the consumer, virtue in terms of added value. These are the statements made by Mr Fleury, chairman of the Working Party on Beef and veal in Copa-Cogeca, at the press conference on 14 October, where Copa, the largest European federation of farmers, and of which the FWA (Fédération Wallonne de l'Agriculture) is a member, called for a better exploitation of our products in our internal market. The European Union therefore has arguments. They must be valued, known and made known. In my view, therefore, the Member States need to strengthen the promotion of European products and the effective marketing campaign in our internal market, highlighting the quality, traceability, health monitoring, environmental standards and any other parameters that can highlight the value of our products. At Belgian level, we must of course bear in mind that our country is an exporter of agricultural products, agri-food products and processed products, mainly to neighbouring countries. Our country is therefore, where appropriate, very directly affected by protective attitudes of the countries around us. In practical terms, in a scheme in which the countries around us promote their own products very strongly at the expense of the import of products close to each other, we are then negatively affected. We must, of course, act with caution and caution. However, there are ways to improve, of course in consultation with the regional authorities, the visibility of Belgian products of high quality in our large distribution, even though a great deal of effort has already been made in the past. As we know, the valorisation and identification of our products also correspond to consumer expectations. I was positively impressed by the maturity of the consumer, who responded in particular to the results of the chain consultation, which, however, resulted in a temporary increase in the price of milk, with the vast majority of consumers indicating that they were prepared to pay a fair price from the moment this corresponds to a correct remuneration of the producers and from the moment when everyone makes efforts in the food chain. On the other hand, for having recently been present in the countries around us, I can tell you that positive campaigns to identify national products are being carried out in these countries and are clearly bearing fruit. I therefore plead that, in consultation with the regional entities, in consultation with the sectors, with FEVIA, with the representative organisations, we can also enable a clearer identification for consumers of our products, products in Belgium, and to highlight our know-how, our quality and the value of our products, why not behind a logo. be, used outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll see if everyone will applaud this initiative. You have the floor, Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u52	I asked questions, I got answers, Mr. President. I hear the minister's answer. We'll see how things are going gradually. We will have the opportunity to return to this, particularly following consultations with the federated entities, which you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u53	Mr Janssen agreed that Mrs Vanheste would ask her question, and thank you very much. Mr de Lamotte, I suggest that you postpone your question No 7242 from point 38, because we will probably not be able to do so until now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u54	In the meantime, Minister, this government team has been working for a year. Not only has the opposition taken stock of the work done, but the newspapers also did. That's how you got only 4/10 in De Morgen. That's very skinny, even tubular. To almost every question I asked you, you replied positively and enthusiastically, but that was all. The same applies to the SME plan: you showed a lot of ambition in the committee, but in practice it didn't work out until today. Minister, how do the assessments of you and your policy area come to you and your services? Do you agree with the analysis that the realizations are lacking? What are the steps with which you will perform a catch-up manoeuvre? What will you actually achieve in this parliamentary year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u55	Mrs Vanheste, with all due respect to the written press in our country and the respect I have for you, my view of the first year of the legislature is totally different. In view of the ambitious measures taken, this assessment seems to me to be very satisfactory. I am free to take some examples out of it. Do you have half an hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u56	Three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u57	Firstly, a reduction in the rate for the social contributions of the selfemployed from 22% to 20.5%. Secondly, no social employers' contributions to the recruitment of the first employee over the next five years. That is an historic measure. Thirdly, a reduction in social contributions for the second to the sixth recruitment. Fourthly, the doubling of the investment deduction to 8% for SMEs and an increase to the same percentage for the self-employed. Fifth, equalization of the minimum pension of the selfemployed with that of the employed. Sixthly, the abolition of the limits to the permitted activity for employed persons and self-employed persons. Seventh, quarters are now taken into account in calculating the pension of the selfemployed. Eighth, the establishment of the National Pension Committee, together with my colleague Mr Bacquelaine. Ninthly, measures for the benefit of the self-employed who provide care to relatives. Tenth, extension of the system of authorised activity for persons in incapacity for work and invalidity. 11th, Catering Plan to support the sector: the flexi-job and the free overtime. Twelve, alternative funding: the tax shelter, the crowdfunding, the tax shelter for the starters, the more interesting crowdfunding. 13th, the plan for fair competition in the construction sector. 14th, creation of a bridging right. Fifteenth, the liquidation boni. 16th, the welfare adjustment. I am aware that there is still a great deal of work to be done, of course, but we are on the right track. There is still four years of work ahead of me that I will tackle with conviction and determination for the benefit of SMEs, the self-employed and farmers. I have some balance sheets for you, Mrs Vanheste.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u58	Mrs. Vanheste, are you completely satisfied?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u59	Mr President, the Minister needed that punch to do his job. These measures have been implemented recently. It is a pity that the President did not give you half an hour's speaking time. I am waiting for the paper version of this answer so that I can review the measures again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u60	Mr Minister, until 31 December 2014, the social contributions of the self-employed were calculated on the farm income of three years before. This, however, led to the unfair situation that although it was possible to have a very limited income, it was nevertheless necessary to pay high contributions, because three years earlier there was a high income. To alleviate that bitter pill, the system has changed since 1 January of this year and contributions are, in principle, calculated on the revenue of the year itself. However, this creates a new situation which affects many self-employed people. If revenues were lower in 2012 than in 2015, an increased contribution would have been due for 2015, while contributions under the old system would have been calculated on the lower revenues of 2012. In addition, it is possible that the self-employed who are likely to have a net income misjudged will be sanctioned for this in 2017. The problem arises not only in the case of self-employed persons in the main occupation but also in the case of self-employed persons in the secondary occupation. In the latter category, income may vary considerably from year to year. Hence the following questions for you, Minister. Are you aware of the situation? What is your evaluation of the system? Are you planning any adjustment of the scheme, and, if so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u61	Mr Janssen, I am aware of the situations you are referring to. These are self-employed persons who experienced a significant decline in their income in 2012, but who had to pay high social contributions on the basis of their 2009 income and saw their income rise again in 2015. For those cases, the Social Insurance Fund had no legal option to take into account the decrease in their revenues in 2012. The reduction in their contributions would only be felt three years later. Unfortunately, for those self-employed people, the new system is blocking the taking into account of the 2012 revenues. The same applies to the self-employed who would be faced with an exceptional decline in their income in 2013 or 2014. The Act provides for a full review to be carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Statute of the Self-employed from the end of 2018, within four years of the reform. In the meantime, I have taken the initiative to bring together a monitoring committee of the reform, in which all the parties involved in the reform are gathered: representative self-employed organisations, the social insurance funds, the RSVZ, the Directorate-General for Self-employed Persons, the institutes of accountants and the company auditors. That committee was chaired by my cabinet and met on 23 April, 12 June and 10 September. The Committee's initial evaluations are positive. 30 000 self-employed people have already made use of the new possibilities for adjusting their provisional contributions, without administrative difficulties and without delay in treatment. Moreover, the recovery rate and the amount of contributions recovered after six months in 2015 is better than in 2014. That situation will have to be confirmed by the end of this year. With regard to the possible sanctions, I would like to add that the law offers the possibility of getting rid of the increases. The RSVZ will grant the waiver if the self-employed person acted in good faith. The monitoring committee is aware of the cases you mention. It is currently studying possible solutions. I'll be getting proposals in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u62	I conclude, Minister, that in a few weeks' time you will have solutions to the problems I raise. So you will hear me, I will probably repeat the question in a few weeks' time to find out what the follow-up to the whole story will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u63	Mr Minister, point 13 of your SME plan reads: "In the light of the budgetary possibilities of the system, the government will consider, as a matter of priority, how the procedure for exemption from social contributions can be improved by introducing a legal framework that sets out the grounds on which an exemption can be obtained and by making a substantive appeal. The functioning of the Commission for the Exemption of Contributions will be further streamlined in order to improve and accelerate the provision of services to the self-employed. Selfemployed persons who receive an exemption from social security contributions will be able to pay a regularisation contribution later and thus to build up pension rights for the quarters concerned. This is an important measure which many self-employed people can address in precarious situations. They will benefit from greater legal certainty and better service provision. In that sense, I have a few questions for you: do you already have a legal framework defining the grounds on which the committee can assess the state of need? If so, what deadline do you envisage? Secondly, what is the state of play regarding the streamlining of services? What options did you have in mind in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u64	The improvement of the exemption procedure and the reform of the Commission for the Exemption of Contributions are points in the SME plan that are close to my heart but which need to be considered thoroughly. There have already been discussions and thinking exercises on this subject, but without precise timing. The current state of affairs does not allow me to give you more information today. However, I can tell you that I have already introduced the possibility for self-employed persons to open pension rights for the exempted contributions provided that the regularisation of their contributions and this from 2015. Just a little patience, there's still legal studies going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand you're not really in a position to give a precise timing. You have a very extensive 40 points plan. You will understand that, as Members of this House, we want to see all these points realised as quickly as possible. I understand that this is not always possible. This question will undoubtedly come back. Nor can I give you precise timing for when I will ask this question again, but you can be sure that it will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u66	Mr President, Minister, unlike employees, self-employed workers must be responsible for setting up their social security systems themselves. The government offers them a minimum guarantee. For example, they have to join a social security fund, after which they have to pay social contributions on a quarterly basis. These payments give them access to a set of social rights. In this way they are also entitled to an invalidity benefit in the event of illness, although only after one month. However, it is not because people are declared unfit for work and because they have had to stop their activities that they are no longer obliged to pay the social contributions. However, given the lack of revenue, this contribution obligation may be a significant financial burden. In order to address this concern, the legislator has in the past opted to allow the self-employed person to apply to his social insurance fund for sickness or invalidity. In this way, periods of sickness or invalidity are treated free of charge as periods of activity and self-employed persons do not have to pay social contributions. However, the conditions which the self-employed person must fulfil in order to obtain equivalence are very restrictive. First of all, one must have worked for ninety days as a self-employed person. In addition, all self-employment must be discontinued. Nor may the activity be continued by a third party. Moreover, the selfemployed person in question must have been declared invalid by 66 %. Moreover, one must be sick in a full quarter. So if one is ill between two kartals in three months, this is not enough to qualify for equivalence. This may seem to the self-employed as a sanction, which could lead him to believe that the government discourages entrepreneurship. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How do you assess this system? Are you considering a reform of this system? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u67	Mr President, Mr Janssen, in reply to your questions, I have a technical answer with an assessment of the three aspects of sickness equality. Firstly, equivalence is not granted when the self-employed person acquires further income. Secondly, there is the 90-day insurance period for incapacity for work. Thirdly, there is the 90-day deadline. The first aspect, namely the equivalence of sickness, which continues to confer social rights free of charge, is permitted if the selfemployed person has ceased any activity and his professional activity is not continued by a third party in his name. Although that principle seems strict, reality is different. Equal treatment shall be refused only if the continuation of the occupation may result in occupational income. It is important to point out that it is not the continuation of the activities in itself but the continuation in the name of the self-employed person that constitutes an objection. In those cases where equivalence cannot be granted, that means that the self-employed person continues to have income from his self-employed activities. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the self-employed enjoy solidarity and are supported through the disability and disability benefits they continue to receive. Are you following me? The explanation is a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u68	Minister, we are listening with attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u69	Moreover, the reform of the method of calculating contributions enables the self-employed to pay contributions adapted to their income and thus enables them to adapt the amount of their contributions to their new situation. The system of incapacity for work and equal treatment in the event of illness can be summarised as follows: First of all, if the benefit is completely discontinued, it will be awarded with equal treatment. Secondly, in case of personal cessation while maintaining a limited income activity through intermediaries, only a benefit is granted. Social contributions can be adapted to income. Thirdly, without personal cessation, neither benefit nor equivalence shall be granted, except in the course of an authorised activity. The second aspect, the preliminary contribution payment. As with other social rights, there is a waiting period before equivalence can be granted because of illness. In the case of equivalence due to illness, the waiting period is 90 days. So a quarter must have been paid. This period is shorter than the waiting period in order to obtain the invalidity benefit, which is two quarters. Under certain conditions, equivalence is also granted where these conditions are not met, e.g. because the self-employed person was a former employee but did not qualify for a benefit in the workers' system. The third aspect concerns flexibility. The equivalence is in principle granted only if no professional activity has been pursued throughout the quarter. In the case of incapacity for work, that rule does not apply. An equalisation for sickness shall also be granted where the cessation begins during the first month of a quarter, where the cessation ends during the third month of a quarter, and where the cessation begins during the first month and ends during the third month of the same quarter. Thank you, Mr Janssen, for this question which has taught me a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u70	Mr Janssen, I give you the floor to reply after this comprehensive and technical answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive and technical answer. I shall certainly read it out because it is difficult for me to replicate it here and now or to say that I will ask a new question. I will read the report carefully and then draw my conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 6568 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u73	Mr. President, Minister, the government has put in place a series of measures to encourage the creation of SMEs. These include the tax shelter, whose encouragement is well understood. Of course, sectors had to be excluded. Usually the real estate sector is excluded from this type of mechanism. We know why. On the other hand, there is one aspect that we have omitted or to which we have not paid attention, namely companies or cooperative societies that work with real estate income, but in the social field. Minister, has any thought ever been given to companies whose main income comes from real estate but whose main objective is the development of social projects? For example, supervised apartments for people with disabilities, reduced mobility and low-cost apartments for people with disabilities. Taking into account the exclusion as formulated, cooperatives with a social purpose active in the sector could not benefit from this new measure, whereas profit-making or speculative intention is excluded by the statutes and the patrimonial benefit which co-operators may derive from it is limited by law or by their statutes. Could an exception exist for these situations? Indeed, even if the main income of these cooperatives comes from real estate, their vocation lies primarily in the development of social projects in the field of social economy. I also know how much attention you pay to the social economy, the precariousness and the difficulties faced by the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u74	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the issue is the exclusion of recipient companies from measures to support and encourage the financing of SMEs and businesses. We've decided on exclusion perimeters. The latter were laid down in Article 145/26 of the Income Tax Code (IARC 92), which provides that the company benefiting from the tax shelter SME schemes may also not be a company whose main purpose or main activity is the construction, acquisition, management, development, sale or rental of immovable property on its own account or the holding of interests in companies having a similar object, or a company in which immovable property or other real rights in such property are placed, including natural persons exercising a mandate or functions referred to in Article 32, paragraph 1, their spouse or children, where such persons or their spouse have the legal enjoyment of the income of such persons or have the use. These are real estate heritage companies whose use or habitation is exercised by the persons concerned. It is known that the objective of the measure is to target beginner SMEs that are part of the real economy, which represent a factor of development, to support entrepreneurship, to meet the financing needs of these enterprises. This point was also raised in the travaux préparatoires relating to Article 145/26. It is true that social cooperatives, active in the real estate sector, play a fundamental role here in the context of access to housing, social action or the development or preservation of the well-being of certain categories of people. Given the status of these companies, as well as the legal and statutory provisions applicable to these types of structures, it is true that profit-making or even speculative intent is excluded in the head of the co-operators. These structures, as well as the applicable provisions, mean that these companies are subject to a special regime both at the tax level and at the level of the rights of co-operators. In the case of cooperative companies recognized by the National Council of Cooperatives, the Income Tax Code has introduced a discount exemption applicable to dividends paid by such companies, for example. We therefore find ourselves in a regime which partially derogates from ordinary law, in order to help such companies to mobilise and raise funds. This exemption is not limited in time to the measures introduced under the SME tax shelter, which only applies to start-ups. On the other hand, the status of co-operators is different. Thus, in our analysis of the tax shelter SMEs, these companies have unfortunately not been included, since the tax shelter SME target is somewhat different from these social economy actions. Having said that, I am sensitive to the remark you made. We will have assessments of the tax shelter and consider other provisions to support other forms of savings. The text is very clear today and excludes these cooperatives. However, I am prepared to reflect with you on any provision to amplify support for these structures that deserve it, whether in terms of societal or social engagement. I am open to dialogue with you and your parliamentary colleagues on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u75	Minister, thank you for your frankness. I don't think we can do anything at the same time. I am sensitive to the fact that you are slightly opening the door and I will therefore try to introduce myself to the subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u76	As far as the order of business is concerned, the number of questions is decreasing. Indeed, a series of questions have been tabled by colleagues who are not present. I recall that the Conference of Presidents has taken the decision that, for authors who are not present at the time when their question is to be asked, if they have not previously manifested themselves, their question becomes irrelevant. On the other hand, members may ask, if they cannot be present for one reason or the other, that their question be either postponed – we have had several cases today – or turned into a written question. However, in the absence of information in the secretariat, the questions of the absent colleagues fall into the basket. Question No 6841 by Mrs Inez De Coninck is transformed into a written question. The same applies to Question No 7005 by Mr Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u77	Minister, your SME plan talks about introducing a logo for companies that were recognised as craftsmen. You have asked the Supreme Court for the Self-employed and the SME to provide you with proposals. The logo proposals submitted must be discussed in advance in the High Council for Self-employed Persons and SMEs. My questions are as follows. Has the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs already proposed logo proposals? By when do you wish to present the logo? In reply to my question No. 4631 on the craftsman told you that the law of 19 March 2014 concerning the legal definition of craftsman had not entered into force due to the absence of a royal decree. Your intention is to establish the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2016, and you instructed your administration to prepare all the decisions necessary for the implementation of the law quickly. The register of craftsmen that you believe will be operational from 1 January 2016 will be electronically consulted and managed by the FPS Economy. How is your administration preparing the decisions needed to bring the law of 19 March 2104 into force? Will this law enter into force effectively on 1 January 2016? Where are we on the electronic register of craftsmen? Was this discussed with the FPS Economy? After all, you said that the register could be consulted electronically by the FPS Economy. What was decided?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u78	Mr Janssen, on 9 September 2015, the Hoge Raad gave me a proposal of logo to be published by ministerial decision. The publication of the logo is linked to the entry into force of the law. A law amending a number of necessary procedural improvements is currently being prepared and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers in the near future. Afterwards the necessary opinions have to be requested from the Council of State. Meanwhile, my administration is preparing the royal and ministerial decisions necessary to bring the law into force. These are the decisions relating to, firstly, the procedures for using and consulting the register, secondly, the monitoring of compliance with the conditions, thirdly, the application form, fourthly, the logo, fifthly, the appointment of the members of the committee, the internal rules of the committee and the board, and, seventhly, the appointment of the representatives of the Federal Public Service Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy in the Council. According to current planning, the law may enter into force on 1 March 2016. The necessary arrangements were made with the IT service of the Federal Public Service Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy with a view to the publication of the register of craftsmen on the website of the FOD. The list of authorised craftsmen will in principle be made available via an Exceltable containing the following information on the craftsman: the company number, the nature of the undertaking, person or legal person, the name, language, the address of the registered office, the country (if the company is not established in Belgium), contact details (phone, website, address), the starting date of the recognition as a craftsman and, where appropriate, the date of withdrawal of the recognition, the activities of the company, the NACE code with a description and a link to the public search of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises where the customer can find any additional information about the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We sometimes ask you the same question, but if Mrs Vanheste had been present, she could have noticed that progress has been made on all aspects of the SME plan. I am looking forward to 1 March 2016 and I hope that Mrs Vanheste will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u80	Mr President, in the second half of September, a major malfunction hit the flow of electronic payments on the Atos Worldline network, which largely dominates the Belgian market with a market share of 80-90%. For more than a week, some of the payments were actually debited from the buyers' accounts but were not returned to the sellers' accounts, causing many traders to be legitimate. Unfortunately, breakdowns in this network are commonplace. There are many consequences for the self-employed. Indeed, delays in revenue have not failed to create liquidity problems, sometimes preventing them from fully honouring their invoices to their suppliers, but also the ONSS and INASTI contributions, as well as the wages of their workers at the end of September. This situation leads you to question several points. Have your services had contact with the various associations defending the interests of the independents to know the extent of the difficulties encountered in this context? In the face of possible difficulties arising from this computer malfunction, will the government take steps to invite the various public administrations concerned, in particular the ONSS and the INASTI, to a certain leniency in the event of late payment of the various taxes and contributions due? Does the State intend to take coercive measures against Atos Worldline to ensure that it assumes the financial consequences of these malfunctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u81	Madam de Coster, thank you for your question. In this regard, I would like to provide the following answers. First of all, the situation that has again been observed is unacceptable, profoundly damaging to trade and some enterprises, creating difficulties. In other situations, we have been able to identify other types of difficulties. The end-of-year parties are close. I hope, of course, that we will not face new difficulties. This kind of situation is really damaging. We must do everything in the future to avoid it. As regards past problems, a number of contacts have been made, notably at the initiative of my colleague Kris Peeters, between Atos and middle-class organisations. Negotiations have been conducted bilaterally between Atos and the sector's representative organisations. In addition, INASTI has not so far received an application for an increase waiver in view of the late payments made as a result of this Atos breakdown, which would have been submitted by self-employed workers in difficulty to pay the statutory deadline for the social contribution for the third quarter of 2015 due to the breakdown affecting the electronic payment terminals. The regulations provide that the INASTI may waive the request for increases in three specified cases: where the debtor can state a case of force majeure; where the debtor because of the special nature of the activity carried out could in good faith consider himself not to be subject to Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July organizing the social status of the self-employed; in other cases worthy of interest. According to my analysis, we find ourselves either in the first case, or in the third one for specific cases, where we are victims of an inevitable situation and whose impact is important if we are deprived of our revenues for several days. As a result of your question, elements of this possibility for the relevant quarters may be brought to the attention of the independents concerned. However, I note that the legal provision allows either under point 1 or under point 3 to request, if significant difficulties arise as a result of this breakdown, the lifting of surcharges. Negotiations have also taken place between Atos and professional associations. Following these discussions, Atos decided to make a commercial gesture towards the traders affected by the breakdown. For example, they were exempted, for two weeks, from the national debit transaction costs, i.e. between 15 and 28 October inclusive. This agreement was the subject of a joint press release published by Atos and the professional associations. This is part of business relationships between partners. As soon as there was an agreement between them, we felt that we had to take note of it and accede to it. However, this agreement does not prejudge any actions that could be brought before courts and tribunals by traders, as independents have suffered significant damage as a result of the breakdown. The commercial act does not relieve the liability which could be called into question before the courts concerned. On the other hand, with regard to negotiations between private parties, from the moment this scope of negotiations was defined, the State did not intervene directly and took note of the agreement, as I have just indicated. In my view, the exasperation in the business world and in the self-employed world has been very intense. It has also been so in the political world; I say it very frankly. This type of malfunction must find technical solutions, especially preventive ones. I allow myself to declare it forcefully, knowing that we are going to experience moments of strong transactions, strong financial flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u82	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive and detailed answer. You see that you have to do something, but what is your power? What steps could you take to force Atos to make sure it doesn't happen again? It is, of course, when there are a lot of transactions that this type of problem arises. If my memories are good, last year, at the holidays, transactions could not be made. There was even a loss of profits for the merchant who couldn't sell. If the customers didn't have cash on them, it was a dry loss for the traders. I really wonder what action your department, Minister, could take to find a solution that would make life easier for both traders, independents and those who make the transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u83	Mr.President, Minister, in 2010, your predecessor, Ms.Laruelle, launched the principle of entrepreneurship as a replacement. The idea is very attractive and commendable. It allows self-employed persons to replace each other when they wish to temporarily suspend their activities by choice or necessity (family or health reasons). This system is inspired by the world of agriculture. Today, we realize that it has not been the same success in the small business sector. By compiling the replacement register provided for by the Economy FPS, only 48 entries were recorded simultaneously at the beginning. This year, this number has fallen to three, according to the Neutral Union for Independents (NIS). If these figures are correct, it seems to me useful to look at the causes of this lack of success and to see to what extent this system can be improved or adapted to reflect the reality of the field. I am convinced that this is a necessity on the ground. Minister, has an evaluation of the system been completed? If so, what are the results and conclusions? If not, are you considering such an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u84	Madam Member, your figures are correct. The register of replacement contractors contained, at the time I consulted it, only six active enterprises. As a result, the system is not now successful. He started with a very good intention – I take this opportunity to highlight the excellent work done by my predecessor – but obviously he does not correspond to the practice, to the life of the self-employed on a daily basis. An evaluation was carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. From this assessment, different elements can be concluded at this stage. With regard to the lack of success of this register, it would be explained by several elements. The first of these is linked to the specific work of the self-employed, the professional concerned. It is not easy to leave an activity to a substitute, even a quality replacement, well-trained, who can master all aspects of the activity, the self-employed's approach, have sufficient knowledge of it, etc. This element is probably even more pronounced in certain sectors or in certain periods, including periods of crisis. Secondly, there are elements that are more technical in nature. Questions arise as to the social status, i.e. the status of those who are neither employees nor civil servants nor self-employed nor pensioners or students, in other words those who are only replacement entrepreneurs. What is the status of these entrepreneurs who are awaiting a possible replacement mandate? Among the technical elements, the registration of replacement contractors at the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE) is a formality that is still not light and that represents a cost. It is known that if they are registered with the ECB, they can no longer be considered as carers. They are subject if they request the social status of self-employed. It is therefore clear that there are difficulties with regard to status and formalities. In summary, the main difficulties are the very nature of the work, the specific nature of the self-employed person's activity, the sociological difficulty for the self-employed to be replaced and the framework for replacement, together with technical, status and procedural difficulties. In addition, it should also be noted that the replacement self-employed person – whether incapacitated or disabled – who, with a view to his reclassification, and with the authorization of the medical consultant, resumes a professional activity can no longer benefit from the system of replacement contractor. Thus, a person who returns to work, even on a part-time basis, cannot be partially accompanied. The General Management Committee has put forward a number of proposals, for example, to replace the current register of replacement contractors, which would no longer be linked to the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, which should be free and more user-friendly and which could be placed under the auspices of INASTI. I will evaluate these provisions with my firm to see if it is enough to make this mechanism more attractive, but, like you, I admit to having some doubts about it, given that I come from the self-employed. It is therefore important to reflect in depth on the restructuring of this system. I owe it to the frankness to say that when my predecessor set up this scheme, it also had as a subsidiary consequence, to enable us to respond to the directive on maternity leave for self-employed persons (Directive 2010/41), on which the European bodies were questioning us. The fact of having such a mechanism was one of the answers that Belgium highlighted. Since I intend to change the maternity regime for independent mothers as well, this argument will disappear in 2017. I would also add that in the causes that I have identified, certain sectors, as you know, Mr President, have specific replacement provisions, which are internal to their sector, including agricultural alternative service. From the moment this service is structured and supported by the regional authorities in this case and by the provincial or local authorities, I see no reason for a farmer to go to the independent or the replacement contractor, for example. All these elements put together, I believe that the system must be fundamentally rethought, without which, unfortunately, it will not be sustainable. So it is these fundamentals that I am thinking about. It is not enough to say that the ECB will no longer be there, that it will be less expensive... I think that this answer will not be enough to make it a device, even if the need is in fact a need that must be taken into account. The period of temporary illness or separation of a professional must be properly considered and responded to. Notwithstanding the underlying goodwill of this mechanism, I think it is fundamentally necessary to review it because it is a mechanism that concerns only a few people. You have to have the frankness to put your work back on the job by pursuing the intentions of my predecessor and the sector and you try to answer it differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u85	You're responding well to my expectations. I asked the question because there was indeed an underlying problem. It is interesting to hear that you are going to review the project as a whole. It is a necessity for the independent to be able to rely, if necessary, on a replacement. One could imagine an internet platform, for example. No doubt this was quite complicated and what is calling for is the problem of social status. Our system means we don't fit into any box like that. I would therefore like to thank you for your flooring on this issue and for coming back with a proposal that will serve many independents well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic264x.u86	Minister, I think with this we are at the end of our business for today. I mention for the record that under agenda item 34, since Mrs Dedry is not present, her question No 7165 falls. Mrs Gantois asked for her oral question No 7261 to be converted into a written question. Questions No 7229 by Mr Vanden Burre, No 7284 by Mrs Smaers and No 7242 by Mr de Lamotte are postponed.
