ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, a few months ago you announced that there would be a new RB on marine sports. It is winter now and there are fewer athletes at sea than usual, but spring is coming and then there is the urgency to clarify what can or cannot be done, which is safe or not. What's the status? What's your plan of action? What timing do you have on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u2	Thank you, Mrs Dumery, for your question. You are right: the current water sports regulation for both recreational and top athletes, as you know, we have a world champion kite surfing on our coasts, and this has been the subject of several discussions, at the water sports associations themselves, at the coastal mayors and at the enforcement services. I have noted that we need to work on a clear legislative framework. I didn't plan one of my first visits to the governor of West Flanders for nothing. Of course, I understand the people who have to maintain order. They must comply with the legislation and be responsible if something goes wrong. I have already consulted my administrative services on this. New, adapted legislation is indeed necessary. Water sportsmen must be able to practice their hobby at sea, but when it is more than a hobby and one belongs to the world top in a particular sport, one cannot have to be referred abroad to train in extreme weather conditions. As you know, wind is needed when windsurfing. With a lot of wind, conditions are a little more dangerous, but as in other discussions, we need to strike a balance between security and freedom. We are aiming for a global approach that will involve not only the current but also the new trends in the water sports world. I am not planning a fragmented approach, I want to come to a global decision, which also takes account of new trends and evolutions. That is why I contacted my Flemish colleague, Mr Muyters. The North Sea and the KB themselves are within my competence, but the water sports associations, surf clubs and sailing clubs are within the competence of the Flemish Region and the Flemish Community. Mr Muyters has the authority to do so. I contacted him to work on that together. As far as timing is concerned, on 21 February, in the crocus holiday, we invested a State General for Water Sports. It is organized during the Belgian Boat Show in Ghent. At this consultation of the States General for Watersport, we will invite all stakeholders to discuss the different visions, the pain points and the proposals. We focus on the so-called surfing sports such as kitesurfing, windsurfing and stand up paddling. The various parts of the legislation may be discussed. The most urgent and important question is what we do with people who want to go to sea when the wind power of 7 beaufort is exceeded by the current regulations. That's a pain point. Another pain point is the mandatory equipment of the water sportsman, such as the hand hoist lights he must carry, the determination of the insertion zones or the admission for group activities. Let me conclude by looking at the key elements: administrative simplification, accountability and increased security. We start with the States General for Water Sports and then work out the proposal in the coming months. The new legislation should be able to enter into force by the end of 2015 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clarification. It is particularly important when that clarity comes to light. So that's gonna be the end of 2015. This summer the current legislation on 7 beaufort still applies. The water sportsmen just want to know where they stand, they want to know that there will be legislation. By the end of 2015, it won't be that long. I thank you in advance for your efforts to respond quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u4	I understand that the enforcers must ensure compliance with the law, but on the other hand they know that something is coming and that we want to get rid of the 7 beaufort rule for top surfers. People who want to train here should be able to. I do not want to end up in a situation where world champions have to train in France or the Netherlands, because it is not allowed here. With a little common sense and concrete agreements, some things can be resolved this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u5	Perfect. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u6	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not repeat my question entirely; you have also read it. The question is about recognizing shipwrecks as heritage. One wreck has already been recognized. My questions are as follows. You have announced that more wrecks will be recognized. Which shipwrecks exactly do you have in mind? What procedure will you follow? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, an estimated three million shipwrecks are underwater worldwide, which is a figure that appeals to the imagination. With us in the North Sea area there are 215 registered shipwrecks. However, there are also a few unregistered and thus unprecedented wrecks. Apart from the golden shipwreck off the coast of Ostend, two other wrecks have been recognized as cultural heritage, namely the Westhinder and the Wakeful. The third recognition concerns a sailing ship off the coast of Ostend from a period when the port of Ostend already played a major role as an international port. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries several ship disasters occurred to the east and west of the harbor dam. The wreck that was found is in remarkably good condition. The shipwrecks were recognised on the basis of the Law of 4 April 2014 on the Protection of the Cultural Heritage Underwater. Note: the above-mentioned law cannot only be used to recognize shipwrecks as heritage, the law is also used for other pieces of archaeological, historical or cultural character. For example, according to law, prehistoric finds can also be given a protected status. The scope for recognition is therefore broadly defined. The West Flemish governor plays a crucial role in the proceedings. The wrecks can be recognised on the basis of an investigation report which he draws up on behalf of the governor. To this end, the governor has drawn up a cooperation agreement with the agency Onroerend Erfgoed (Onroerend Erfgoed) of the Flemish government. Here too, good cooperation with the Flemish government is once again necessary. That seems logical to me, since the North Sea is bordering Flemish territory and there is a great deal of cooperation in this area. This will continue to be the case in the future for other matters. At present, the Real Estate Agency is working on a list of shipwrecks that can be recognised as cultural heritage on the basis of the criteria. At the end of February 2015, so at the end of next month, the list will be delivered to the governor. I have already heard about the following shipwrecks which will certainly be listed and will be submitted to be placed on the cultural heritage list. The first is an eighteenth-century wooden shipwreck that lies on the Buiten rattelzandbank, it sank around 1740. The second is the shipwreck of "Vliegende Hert," an eighteenth-century ship of the United East India Company, which sank in 1735. There are also shipwrecks from World War I on the agenda, as in the Belgian part of the North Sea there are of course many German submarine wrecks, which are in fact all seaman's graves. After the governor has forwarded the report, I will decide whether these wrecks are recognised as cultural heritage under water. It can therefore be expected that further shipwrecks will be identified as heritage in spring 2015. I would also like to examine, during the current legislature, whether additional protection measures can be developed for authorised wrecks. I would like to quote a few examples of a number of possibilities, for the sake of clarity, these are suggestions: putting a buoy on a piece of wreckage to reduce dredge damage; putting or publishing an appropriate symbol for protected wreck sites on the sea map, and making a notification to the recipient when one wants to dive on the protected wreckage site. I would also like to tell you that wrecks have not only a heritage value but also an important ecological added value. They are real shelters and maternity rooms for the different species of fauna and flora. In this way, wrecks contribute significantly to the wealth of our North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u8	Madam President, Secretary of State, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-27-54-commissie-ic067x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, you are welcome.
