ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u1	The first item on the agenda is the joint question No. 1148 by Mrs Lanjri, 1156 by Mrs De Coninck and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 1223 by Mrs Smeyers. Mrs Lanjri's question concerns the recovery of repatriation costs. Mrs De Coninck's question has been converted into a written question. Mrs Smeyers' question is also about the recovery of repatriation costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Sharifi case has attracted a great deal of attention in the media. The young man involved is finally back in our country. He has returned in a legal way, in particular through family reunification. In an interview, the director of the DVZ showed that the repatriation costs for his removal would be recovered. However, the Director stated that the recovery was not always carried out and that it could not be required in any event. That was an odd formulation. That is why I have the following questions. What arrangements have been put in place for the recovery of repatriation costs? What line is there in that? What arrangement is there? It was suggested that recovery is not always done. In what cases and in what cases is not recovered? How many costs have been recovered in recent years, for example in the last three years? How can recovery be made enforceable, since the person concerned has finally left our country? Are standard rates used in determining the total cost? How is the amount to be recovered determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u3	Mr President, Secretary of State, Afghan Navid Sharifi was deported to Afghanistan in October 2013 with a lot of media attention. Recently he was able to return to Belgium after a stay in Poland. He can now legally reside here by means of a family reunification visa. The costs incurred at the time of repatriation are now recovered by the Foreign Office. It would amount to EUR 14 000. Sharifi is asked to repay that amount. The costs were incurred during his stay and during the actual repatriation. In this case, a knowledge of Sharifi paid the costs incurred for him. However, foreigners who were removed and subsequently legally re-enter the country should legally repay those costs. However, this has not always been applied in the past. I have a few questions for you on this. Do you intend to apply the rule consistently in the future or will you apply certain criteria in this respect? If so, what are the criteria? How does the DVZ get the sum of EUR 14 000? Is it about actual costs or are certain baremas used? Do you have a view of the costs incurred in the past in such a way or revenue received? In how many cases were effectively asked to repay those costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. The recovery of repatriation costs is regulated by law. The employer is covered by the Royal Decree of 12 December 2013 fixing the flat-rate compensation provided for in Article 13 (2) of the Act of 30 April 1999 on the employment of foreign workers and the payment of the return costs of illegally employed foreign nationals. For the foreigner himself, the recovery is carried out in accordance with Article 27 (3) of the Foreigner's Law of 1980. The costs caused by the return of the foreigner are to be borne by him. Recovery shall be requested at the time the person concerned submits a visa application. Recovery shall be made on the basis of Article 3a of the 1980 Law for the person guaranteeing the person concerned. The Royal Decree of 15 May 2006 amending the Royal Decree of 1981 introduces Articles 17.7 to 17.9 and lays down in a Royal Decree the possibility of recovering the OMCW's subsistence and health costs. How is the price determined? According to these provisions, the following is recovered: the cost of the plane ticket and the cost of the plane tickets of the federal police officers who escort the stranger, if there is an escort. Most of the time, it is. Furthermore, the costs of staying in the closed centre are recovered, EUR 190 per day. Costs shall not be recovered if the person concerned does not apply for a visa. That is not illogical, because otherwise one would not be able to find the person concerned and would probably not pay him either. There is no possibility of recovering the costs incurred in the countries of origin. Costs shall be recovered from foreigners applying for short-stay visas. With regard to long-stay visa applications, for example, where there is a right of residence in the case of family reunification, the person concerned is asked to reimburse the costs, but this is not always enforced. In cases where a visa is applied for for for a long stay without a right of residence, recovery will always be requested before the visa is issued. If the employer does not make payment, he is asked by the FPS Finance to pay, or the amount is recovered via the taxes. If the guarantor does not make payment, he is asked by the FPS Finance to pay, or the amount is recovered via the taxes. You also asked about the amounts recovered. In 2011, it amounted to 273 707.95 euros. In 2012 it amounted to 247 948.40 euros. In 2013, a total of EUR 204 857.14 was recovered. And in 2014 it was 172 654.15 euros. Recovery has fallen in recent years. I was also looking at that answer. I didn't know the proper procedure either. Although I know the problem very well, I had never heard of it. For the employer and the guarantor it is fairly clear, but for the stranger himself it is not. Only since last summer, as I have been told, recovery is happening again. I have an appointment with the Director General to discuss that file. We will look into whether or not the system of recoveries is working properly and, if necessary, improving it. Of course, we must always be sufficiently sure that the sums can actually be recovered, because the application of the measure also requires a lot of energy for our officials, so let me tell you. There are serious savings and the Department of Foreign Affairs is not getting away from them, not even with regard to personnel. There are a lot of challenges in the Foreign Affairs Office, so we need to look into whether it is worth it and whether it can be done more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, it was not clear to me how the system works, especially for foreigners, while guarantees are already described in the law. Strangely enough, you admit that there were no recovery for a while. Why was that? That needs to be looked at. We must also examine how this can be done correctly, so that it does not happen on one side and not on the other. One can keep the line that it happens every time one wants to come back into the country, but then there must be clear guidelines. Perhaps there are still derogations, as we have to allow derogations, because Europe is imposing on us that recovery should not be disproportionate, for example. Once you have assessed this and put it on the point, I would like to discuss it again with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear information. I believe that Mrs Lanjri's question is correct: how is it that between 2011 and 2014 there is a difference of EUR 100 000 in the recovery? The reason you yourself indicated is still unclear. Perhaps the administration sometimes wonders whether it is worth the effort, knowing in advance that it is not possible to recover, so recovery is not worth the administrative burden. It is good that it is now known and that you are taking the initiative to study it. I think it would be better to narrow it down to a certain category of foreigners and, in that case, always apply the same rule for everyone, rather than generalize it to any new visa application. As you yourself said, one may need to narrow down, according to short or long stays or other forms of applications, specify and narrow down the target audience. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, two years ago your predecessor, then Secretary of State De Block, introduced the list of safe countries. This list contains those countries which are considered to be safe in principle. Applications from these countries shall be processed within 15 days instead of the usual three months. The main aim of this list is to have a dissuasive effect on potential asylum seekers from those countries. In April it was announced that, according to the first figures, this actually has a deterrent effect. A decrease of 57% in asylum applications from the seven countries included was noted. You would have plans to increase the number of countries on the current list. According to the agreements made on this subject, the opinion should first be sought from the Head of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, i.e. from the Commissioner himself. It was suggested that you were thinking about Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, Senegal, Cameroon and Tunisia. These countries can also be found on the safe lists of other European countries, although these lists differ widely. This diversity shows that it is not obvious to assess the security of a country. That is the task of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. It is therefore also important to carry out a regular evaluation of the countries already on the list. The situation in these countries can change very quickly and certain developments can ensure that a country is no longer safe in the short term. We all know that. I was wondering whether and how the evaluation of the list of safe countries will take place. Will a report be submitted to Parliament? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u8	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have a similar question. You announced that you would extend the list of safe countries to those just listed. You are asking for advice from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. We assume that, if you ask for an opinion on these countries, a preliminary investigation has been carried out into the current safety risks in these countries. Civil society organisations and UN and NGO human rights reports have already responded to the announcement of these countries, providing sufficient arguments not to consider them safe. The arguments are child labour, child marriages, poor reputation in the field of genital mutilation in Senegal and Cameroon, legal proceedings, serious violations of women's and children's rights in Tunisia, lack of freedom of expression, frequent reports of intra-family violence and violence against women, corruption and independence of the judicial system in Moldova and Armenia, as well as discrimination and persecution of ethnic minorities and Roma, including in Moldova and Armenia. In view of these considerations, would I have liked to know on the basis of which parameters and elements the government has decided to list these six countries to extend the existing list? To what extent were opinions from refugee organisations taken into account? Were they heard therein? What do you do with the fact that different actors already have questions about the existence of such a list? What attitude will you take with regard to the opinion to be drawn up on this matter by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u9	Mr Maingain is not here. I shall therefore give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, Mrs Van Hoof, I can give you the following information. I can confirm that an evaluation of the situation in the countries mentioned in your questions is currently being organised by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. These include seven countries previously included in the list of safe countries, namely Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, also known as FYROM, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia and India, supplemented by three countries from the former Soviet Union, Armenia, Georgia and Moldova and three countries from Africa, namely Senegal, Cameroon and Tunisia. I expect an opinion from the Commissioner-General on this within a relatively short period of time. To this end, I will, together with the Foreign Minister, present a proposal for a new list of safe countries to the government. I will then inform Parliament of the government's decision. The CGVS plays an important role in the evaluation process of the security situation of the current and proposed countries of origin. I am counting on the CGVS in its opinion to provide a thorough and strong country-based assessment of the situation in the countries of origin. A new evaluation will be organised in accordance with the same procedure within at least one year. I ask for opinions from the CGVS and, following the opinion of the Commissioner-General, a proposal for a new list is being submitted to the government. The above procedure does not exclude that before the end of the year I can ask for a country to add it to the list of safe countries of origin. This could be the case, for example, for a country which is not yet on the list, but from which the influx has increased significantly and for which there are also clear indications, for example, on the basis of a comparison between the different lists of safe countries in other Member States of the European Union, that the country can be regarded as a safe country. Mrs Van Hoof, you are asking about the consultation of certain NGOs and published reports. Those reports are also read by us. The CGVS gives opinions in full independence, after which the government looks at the situation. The list of safe countries of origin shall also be established in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. It is not planned to involve actors or refugee organisations other than those mentioned above in the procedure for drawing up the list of safe countries of origin. I note that some organisations have questions about the existence of the system for safe countries or the list of safe countries. By the way, they've always had these questions. However, I would like to stress that the arrangements for handling a list of safe countries of origin within the Belgian asylum procedure were introduced in accordance with all international provisions, both the Geneva Convention of 28 June 1951 and the EU Asylum Procedure Directive, including the new ones which will hopefully be transposed into legislation by the end of the parliamentary year. I repeat that the scheme for safe countries of origin in Belgium is of such a nature that it in no way precludes a proper individual assessment of each asylum application. Under this scheme, any asylum seeker who needs effective protection can still rely on such protection, either through recognition of refugee status or through the granting of subsidiary protection status. I repeat clearly that the fact that a country is on the list of safe countries does not mean that people from that country are not recognised as refugees. That's what's gonna happen. Look at Albania and Macedonia, for example. I was in Albania too, and people know it there. It happens when there is effective enough evidence. It is about a shortened procedure to send a clear signal to those countries and to the people who live there, in particular that one will not stay in the shelter or hotels for months as it was when the list was introduced in 2011 and after which one will get a negative answer, but one can still stay here or try to get the final stay through other procedures. It's a clear signal and it's working. More and more European countries are applying this, although with varying degrees of success for the sake of fairness. The countries I am proposing are also on lists of other European countries. Tell me yourself, if a country is safe from France, why not be safe from us? This is where I escape logic. I think we can logically go through the lists from other countries. This is now happening with maximum respect, because once again, it is not because someone is from Albania, for example, that his file will no longer be dealt with. In fact, the deadline for examining applications has already been considerably shortened. Many dossiers are dealt with within two weeks, including for applicants who do not come from one of the countries included on the list of safe countries. The reason is that the ball is played very briefly. It can only satisfy us that our asylum authorities are playing so briefly on the ball; we have had other periods. In that sense, therefore, I believe that we are sufficiently in line with international standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I am glad to hear that the normal deadline, including outside the list of safe countries, is often only two weeks. That's good news. However, you know that the situation can change very quickly. Our accelerated procedure for the list of safe countries is therefore, in any case, a guarantee that they will be treated more quickly. It seems to me more than logical that a right of residence should not be granted automatically, otherwise there should be no further investigation. The intermediate phase has only been strengthened, on the advice of the CGVS, because there is a greater risk that origin from the safe countries will lead to non-recognition. I think we can rely on the opinion of the CGVS. We know that it has a very good study service which informs itself thoroughly and always plays briefly on the ball. I agree with you that this would be better agreed at European level rather than country by country. In any case, pending European agreements, we can rely on the opinions of the CGVS. I hope that the list will come soon, as included in the coalition agreement and as you mentioned in your policy paper. It goes without saying that there can still be an ad hoc country on that list. There is no waiting for a new evaluation in our Parliament in situations of conflict. If certain conflicts in a country are over and the country is safe again, you can of course quickly come to Parliament and propose to add that country to the list. On the contrary, you can also propose to delete a country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer and for the clarification. It is clear that the list of safe countries has a deterrent effect. I agree with what Mrs Smeyers sees, in particular that it would be logical for that list to be drawn up at European level, because it is strange that a particular country is considered safe by one country and not by another. That doesn't make any sense. It is also good to ensure that the evaluation is carried out every year, because a country can quickly find itself in a risk phase again. I do wonder what you mean by ad hoc application to the CGMS and ad hoc addition of a country. Could you clarify that for me, please? What's safe in the end? We create an illusion for ourselves. A study was carried out in the United Kingdom on 16 refugees returning to Cameroon. Two of them have built up a normal public life there, six have fled again, six have gone into hiding, two have returned to the United Kingdom and two have been immediately captured and tortured at Cameroon airport. So there is the deterrent effect, but the question is what happens to those people afterwards. Belgium must also check what has happened to the people we have sent back. We need to evaluate the impact and impact of the return. In this way we can have a more correct asylum policy and we do not fool ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, as you well know, in the past, hunger strikes were regularly taken back as the ultimate action to obtain a residence permit. Fortunately, since the big regularisation campaign of 2009, the effect of these hunger strikes has been drastically reduced. The most recent action dates from two years ago, when VUB 23 undocumented people decided not to eat 102 days. We remember when a person sewn his mouth shut. They asked for a one-year residence permit and a work permit. Your predecessor, Secretary of State De Block, didn't join, and you don't seem to be either. At the moment there is a hunger strike going on in a rest house in Brussels on the Leopold II avenue. Since 16 November, about 50 asylum seekers have been on hunger strike. They hope to be able to force you and the government to give them residence documents anyway. They've been living on water for over a month. A significant proportion of them also refuse to take medication. Some of the hunger strikers have already been taken to the hospital where they are being cared for. On 29 December, the organisation "La Voix des Sans Papers" already had a meeting with the Foreign Affairs Office to discuss the situation of those hunger strikers. The asylum seekers who have been processed have been given the opportunity to return voluntarily. What were the results of the interview with the Foreign Office? Do you have any idea of the medical condition of those 40 people? Have hunger strikers effectively taken the opportunity to return voluntarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u14	I thought we agreed at a previous committee meeting that we would replace asylum seekers with candidate political refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u15	Mrs Smeyers, I am glad that this question is being asked in Parliament. I see that the mayor of the municipality concerned is present, someone who is very often confronted with the subject matter. In the Brussels Region there are several municipalities involved. I will try briefly to outline a number of things. I would particularly like to explain what we have already done. There are all sorts of things being said about this which are often at odds with the truth. Mrs Smeyers, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I have a brief overview of the meetings that have taken place with the delegation to the Foreign Affairs Office. On 11 December there was a meeting with a delegation in the premises of the Foreign Office at the Emergency Station. On 18 December there was a visit to Molenbeek by Mr Roosemont, the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs and two doctors from the department concerned. They asked whether they could carry out an individual medical examination of the persons concerned. We were told that some of the hunger strikers involved would be in very poor physical condition. That individual medical examination, which was explicitly requested by Mr Roosemont in the consultation and in the presence of the doctors, was refused. On 7 January there was a meeting with the delegation at the Foreign Affairs Office, the same thing happened on 22 January and 23 January. On 29 January there was a meeting with Archbishop Léonard at the Department of Foreign Affairs about the problems of the hunger strikers in Brussels. In addition, there were email contacts on 23 December and 8 January with the competent spokesperson and then there was an email to CIRE in the course of December, but I don't have the right date for this. For the sake of clarity, during maintenance with the Foreign Affairs Office, information is provided only on the existing legal procedures to obtain a stay and there is and has always been an explicit request to the activists to make use of the legal migration possibilities. For the time being, however, none of the activists has accepted a proposal for voluntary departure. The conclusion is that the theme of hunger strike is a very sensitive issue. In my previous life, I asked a lot of questions about this to Mrs De Block. However, it is not the case that there would be no contact between my administration and the hunger strikers or the representative of the hunger strikers. It is true that the hunger strikers refuse an individual medical examination of our own doctors who employ the Department of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u16	I can see it and regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that all doors are open to a discussion with the spokesmen or the hunger strikers themselves. The hand is being stretched out. I can only share your opinion. The only thing that can be done is explaining the legal way to obtain a residence permit. Clear, straightforward and consistent being like you and the Foreign Affairs Department is the only way to stop other initiatives or potential hunger strikers from getting started. Nobody likes that. It's poignant. It is bad, but it is perhaps an attempt that has occasionally been made in a further past, which makes a hunger strike a last resort at times. Only by the attitude you and the Foreign Office now adopt can that kind of pressure be stopped on you and on the government. Those hunger strikes aren't gonna make anyone any better. I welcome your position, your vision and your policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in December 2014, La Libre Belgique published an article entitled "Perquisitionner among the undocumented without a warrant? The idea that gives cold back." According to the article, the Office of Foreigners had issued the idea of carrying out searches of the homes of undocumented persons, without the prior authorization of the investigating judge. Also in the press on 22 December, you said that a working group was studying the possibility of revising the law on the police function in order to allow the Office of Foreigners to dispense with a warrant issued by a judge to search the undocumented. Such a measure would seriously violate the rights conferred by article 15 of the Constitution and article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantee the inviolability of the home. Mr Secretary of State, what is the composition of this working group? Has he met before? If so, what are its first conclusions? How do you justify such a measure? Why not exclude it from the outset, given that it violates fundamental rights equally valid for undocumented persons? If you continue along this path, according to what timetable do you intend to present your project to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that such issues are highly sensitive. The government will do its utmost to respect fundamental rights and privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u20	No action has yet been taken since the matter is still under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u21	If I understand you correctly, no conclusions have yet been drawn, but the working group is continuing the task entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u22	You should know that the working group under discussion is composed of representatives of the Office of Foreigners, Justice and my department. He's dealing with a lot of files. For the time being, this has not yet been discussed. He's not even on his agenda. In fact, this element is very questionable, if not very sensitive. Besides, I wasn't very happy to find him in a newspaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u23	All right, but you are not giving up the idea that this issue should be dealt with in this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u24	Maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u25	At the beginning of January, Secretary of State, reports were published in the media on the actions being taken by committees promoting the regularisation of people without papers. One of those reports said that the director of the DVZ had advised them to look for work in bottleneck professions in order to apply for regularisation. The criterion work was once used in the regularisation procedure in the 2009 campaign. That procedure was very limited in time at the time. It is therefore at least surprising that the director of the DVZ or anyone at the DVZ would have given such statements to the activists. Mr Secretary of State, within the current instructions on the application of Article 9a of the Aliens Act, is the criterion work still applied in bottleneck professions? If so, how many regularisations were or are then granted on the basis of that criterion? Has such a measure already been discussed with the Länder, which are ultimately required to issue the work permit? They are authorized to do so. This was discussed in 2009 and there were clear agreements with the Länder. Now that is not the case. Were you consulted on the promise made by the director of the DVZ? What was agreed upon on that? What did they say to these people? Is it true that they have to go down that road?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u26	At my request, the Director-General of the DVZ received a delegation from the administrations of people without papers who demonstrated before my cabinet. He made it clear to them that the government agreement does not provide for collective regularisation and that the regularisation procedure remains an exception, which is considered on a case-by-case basis. He also pointed out to them the other possibilities offered by the Alien Law to obtain a legal residence. This is primarily about economic migration. To obtain a work permit B in advance is, of course, absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u27	For the sake of clarity, Mr Secretary of State, do you mean whether the director of DVZ has the right to stay and return to their country of origin and that, should they find work in a bottleneck profession and apply for a work permit for a particular employer, and which would be accepted, there would be an opportunity to return to Belgium? But that is certainly not the way of regularization. There are two slopes, namely the road of regularisation and the road of a work permit. That is a completely different slope, which normally has to be done from abroad. Either this has been miscommunicated by the activists, or they have been misunderstood. Can you confirm that I have understood correctly that my interpretation is correct, namely that the path of economic migration has been shown, which is a very different path to regularisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u28	You got that right. The law is clear. I am here to implement the coalition agreement and the chapter on migration in it. That's my job. There is nothing about that in the coalition agreement. You know that better or at least as well as I do. The law is clear. Whatever certain activists are communicating to their respective constituents, I can only say what my Director-General underlined during the interview, and that is also very clear. The law must be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u29	Thank you. That is a clear answer, which is in line with what I expected, because I was really surprised that something else had been communicated. This one's been cleared up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 1540 by Mrs De Coninck will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, on 12 January 2007, Belgium adopted a gender mainstreaming law aimed at mainstreaming a gender perspective into all federal policies. This law already provided for a gender test, but it was finally only possible to establish it in the framework of the law of 15 December 2013 on various provisions and on administrative simplification. The Royal Decree of 21 December 2013 implementing Title II of Chapter 2 of the said Law specifies in particular the composition and operation of the Impact Assessment Committee, the structure of the form and the advertising obligations. The Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) is, as stated by the Institute for Gender Equality, "a preliminary assessment of the potential consequences of regulatory projects in the economic, social, environmental and public spheres." The analysis on gender equality thus allows the authors of regulations to know the impact of their project on the situation of women and men, and to correct it if necessary. It is therefore an essential instrument. But it seems that gender mainstreaming is far from being an automation for all the people involved in the different phases of cycling politics, and especially for your government in the light of the decided socio-economic reforms. It is also up to us that the gender test provided for by the law of 12 January 2007 could disappear under the pretext of possible administrative simplification. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what is the current situation with regard to the application of the gender test? To what extent is it being implemented? Is it effectively implemented so far? Have any problems in its implementation already been observed? Can you reassure us today by confirming that there is no question of returning to the application of this measure, namely the impact assessment of the regulation and, in particular, the gender test with a view to "administrative simplification"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u32	Honourable member, as regards the gender aspect of the integrated impact assessment, your question should be addressed to Ms Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. The regulations on impact assessment provide that the committee responsible for this task shall produce an annual report on its application. This document should reflect the findings of the jurisdictions responsible for the topics covered by the integrated impact assessment and their recommendations. The Institute for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men is of course associated with it. To answer your second question, I refer you to my position expressed in my political guidance note. The Integrated Impact Analysis (IAA) will be applied in a proportional and pragmatic manner in order to avoid formalism at the end of the decision-making process. The AIR will only be applied in legislative files where the instrument can actually add value and where the actual analysis of the problem, the objective and the alternative policy options are widely developed. With my policy, I aim for fewer but better AIRs that contribute to the implementation of quality legislation. With a view to a pragmatic application with a qualitative result, my services will support the implementation of the AIRs. The IRA will also be appended to parliamentary documents at the same time as the tabling of bills. Nevertheless, the first report of the Impact Assessment Committee should identify possible avenues for improving the quality of the AIRs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u33	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I will therefore ask Mrs Elke Sleurs my first question. I recall that it is imperative that this law remain in force in order to guarantee the same rights for men and women in our country. This fight must remain one of the federal priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, a while ago you stated that a draft law was in the process of allowing the withdrawal of refugee status or subsidiary protection for people who went to war in Syria. You also mention in the newspaper article that this is not possible today. I find that strange. The withdrawal of refugee status or subsidiary protection on grounds of serious breach or threat to public policy or national security is already possible today by the application of Articles 49, § 2 and 49 § 5, third paragraph. It is true that this is limited to 10 years after the application for asylum has been lodged. The withdrawal of the right of residence is also possible if the current Foreigner's Law is applied, i.e. for other foreigners, under Article 49. What amendment would you like to make to the Foreigner's Act? How often has this possibility been used in recent years by the law? How large is the group of people who have gone to fight in Syria and who have the status of recognised refugee or have subsidiary protection? If you want to tell these people, how do you intend to do that? Since they have received or have been recognised as refugees, and especially in the latter case, this means that the country from which they come is not safe. So you can't send them there, but what will you do with them? Which country will you tell them? If this has already happened in the past, what country have they been deported to? Then what happens to these people in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u35	Some Syrian fighters have refugee status in Belgium or benefit from subsidiary protection. In order to prevent them from returning to our country, a way must be created to take that status back. It will enable the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, under certain conditions, to refuse international protection or to withdraw or refuse to renew an granted status, if the person concerned poses a threat to society or national security. Contrary to what you say, it is not possible today to withdraw refugee status or subsidiary protection status because of a threat to public order or national security. However, today, in accordance with Article 52, 4° of the Foreigner's Act of 1980, it is possible for the Minister himself to deny a candidate refugee entry or residence on the territory during his asylum procedure, if there are serious reasons to consider him a threat to public policy or national security. This provision is certainly not in line with the new asylum procedure directive that our country is due to transpose by July 2015. The draft law which I will submit to the Council of Ministers therefore provides, on the one hand, for the possibility of refusing or withdrawing a statute on the basis of a threat to society or national security and, on the other hand, for full decision-making powers in these cases to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless who will be able to judge it in full independence. The latter is in line with the Asylum Procedure Directive. In any case, we must take action because we must implement the transposition. At present there is only some acceleration in the implementation, let us be clear. I'll get to your grades. The Aliens Act expressly provides for the possibility of withdrawing refugee status or subsidiary protection status. However, the current Article 57.6 does not provide for the possibility of withdrawing refugee status or subsidiary protection status on the basis of a threat to society or national security. However, the withdrawal of false statements or forged documents which were decisive for the recognition of refugee status or the granting of subsidiary protection status may be justified on the grounds of fraud, i.e. on the basis of facts which the asylum seeker misrepresented or withheld. Refugee status can also be withdrawn if the later personal behaviour of the stranger indicates that he fears persecution, for example by returning. The refugee status can also be withdrawn if the foreigner should have been excluded because he is covered by Article 1.D.E or F of the Geneva Convention. This is about serious violations of humanity, for example the genocide in Rwanda. The subsidiary protection status can be withdrawn if the alien should have been excluded because there are serious reasons to believe that he has committed a crime against peace, a war crime or a crime against humanity and committed acts in violation of the UN Charter or a serious crime. Between 2008 and 2014, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless took 28 decisions to withdraw subsidiary protection status due to fraud. During the same period, the Commissioner-General took 28 decisions to withdraw subsidiary protection status because the applicant should have been excluded from a protection status. Between 2008 and 2014, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless took 213 decisions to withdraw refugee status because of fraud. During the same period, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless took 3 decisions to withdraw refugee status because the asylum seeker should have been excluded from a protection status. The expulsions will be considered on a case-by-case basis. This is done in accordance with national and international law. In any case, the non-refoulement principle will always be respected and must be respected, so there is no discussion about that at all. At present, it is not possible to withdraw the asylum status or subsidiary protection of a Syrian fighter. Removals have therefore not yet been discussed. Hopefully this will be discussed in the government on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clarification. With all these articles in it, it is indeed a rather technical matter, I understand. It is a question of refinement and enlargement, as we have also provided for in the coalition agreement. I think it is important that the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless should at least decide on the cases in which this should be applied, and that is a good thing. I'll just sit here and ask you a question. In a number of cases, refugee status or subsidiary protection will be reduced. However, in some of these cases we will be faced with the fact that these people cannot be returned to a particular area. Where appropriate, these people are here without refugee status, without a status, without a residence permit, and neither can we deport them. I fear that this will create a new group around which new problems may arise. I wonder if sufficient thought was given to that. Every Syrian warrior or anyone who has developed activities in this sense has to be dealt with hard, there is no doubt about that. Taking away a residence status in cases where that person cannot be returned to a safe area makes me wonder what will happen to those people in the long term, for example when they get out of prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u37	Mrs Lanjri, there are two groups. First of all, the largest group includes the people who are still out there. When we withdraw their status, they simply cannot come back. I don't think that's a bad idea. Secondly, a smaller group is here. Those people have refugee status. It's not about a lot of people. Now you say that there might be problems around that group, but those problems already exist, because they are terrorists. I don't see what new problems would arise. The problem is precisely the problems that already exist. So there are no problems; the problems are already there. I understand your concern that we need to think about that. That's what we're doing. The government has already announced a number of measures, which still need to be transposed into legislation. You should also look at this with the proposals that have been made in the field of justice. You say that we should not withdraw refugee status from those people, because we cannot tell them, but I cannot follow the logic of that. After all, there have been similar cases in the past. If the status is withdrawn because, for example, it is discovered that the person concerned has been actively involved in genocide, he has also lost his status. We have done this in the past, and that is also in the figures I have given. Those involved have also become illegal at a certain point in time. I just want to point out that this is not a new measure. That's right. Does that mean, however, that the measure should not be implemented? That's a completely different matter. You say that there will be a problem here. Unfortunately, that problem has arisen a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make it clear that I also mentioned earlier that the possibility exists today and that it is already being applied. I would like to clarify once again that there must be no doubt that we must protect society from such guests. We must also severely punish them. However, I would just like to make sure that we do not create any additional problems. What, for example, are we doing with people who have 20 years in prison? There is a two-fold problem. First of all, there are the few who return. Secondly, there are also those who stay there and find death. So the latter is a problem that solves itself. For those who come back there is a number that returns, though, there is a problem. If the authorities ensure that they pay their penalty first, they will face a problem at some point. That's my concern. I am therefore pleased that you admit that the way in which this problem is solved will have to be looked at. However, we share the same concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the law cannot distinguish between those who are still there and those who are here. When the status is withdrawn and the residence is taken away from those who are there, they can no longer return. That is what everyone is asking and is also agreed in the coalition agreement. Some of them are here by now. However, no distinction can be made in the law on the basis of the physical location of the persons concerned. Unfortunately, that's not possible. The failure to apply the measure, because some of it is here and most of it is still there, is obviously not a solution. I repeat, the measure is not new. She's been applied in the past. There have been withdrawals of refugee status on the basis of very serious facts and very dangerous persons. We have made them illegal and withdrawn their residence. That is a choice that society must dare to make at some point. That's the point. You have a point. I'm also working on the problem. I think about it a lot. I'm not alone. Many people think a lot about it. Does this mean, however, that the measure should not be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to make it clear that I did not ask or say that either. That is where we are on the same page. We have to do it. It was done in the past. The measure is not new either. However, there is still a bottleneck that needs to be guarded. We need to look at how we can solve this problem. That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u41	The last word was for Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u42	Mr President, Secretary of State, I would like to question you today following the announcement in the press on 13 January of the expulsion of a Guinean, detained since September 2014 at the Caricole transit centre in Steenokkerzeel, to his country of origin, despite the Ebola epidemic. I also asked you in plenary on 8 January last to point out the paradoxical situation in which we were in. Indeed, forced evictions from Belgium had been suspended since August 2014 in order to protect our police officers in charge of this mission, but at the same time the asylum applications of Guinean, Sierra Leonean and Liberian nationals were refused, thus encouraging them to return to their countries of origin by their own means. The Foreign Office indicated, in the case of the Guinean national, that he had been returned, under the Chicago Convention, to the airport from which he had left but not repatriated to Guinea, which was denied by the ASBL Pigment, which confirms the destination of Conakry. The Foreign Office is saying something that is not true! Mr Secretary of State, do you have more information to provide to the committee? What new elements have led to the resumption of evictions? Was there any consultation with the police union before the takeover? If so, what are the conclusions? In your response to my last inquiry, you stated: "The CGRA believes that there is no need to grant refugee or subsidiary protection status only taking into account the risk of the Ebola virus. Therefore, under the asylum procedure, recognition of a status on the basis of the mere fact of invoking a risk of Ebola virus contamination is not an option." Have you received any opinions from other independent bodies, such as the World Health Organization (WHO) or Médecins Sans Frontières Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u43	Mr President, although I cannot communicate on individual files, I can state the following. According to its decision, the Federal Police have no longer escorted Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone since 6 August 2014. Forced removals without escort may, however, still be organized. Nationals of these countries who are illegally present in the territory are no longer kept, unless they can be removed to a destination other than those countries. With regard to aliens who are the subject of a decision to return to the external border, the Chicago Convention, which provides for the return of the alien to the place where he or she began his or her journey, is applied. As far as removals are concerned, the action taken was to follow the travel recommendations of the FPS Public Health, WHO, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and Foreign Affairs. Information was received on Ebola. In other words, Mr Kir, there was no accompaniment of the Belgian policemen on the flight, since it was an airline whose safety of the Royal Air Maroc was responsible from the start of the plane in Zaventem. So, no problem with the unions! For such an operation, it is not the Belgian authorities who take the initiative to expel, but the airline which must also bear the costs. The person in question was deprived of documents at this external border of Belgium in Zaventem and it is the responsibility of the Royal Air Maroc to take him back. That's the logic. That's the rule, that's how it's been forever! It happens every day in Zaventem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u44	Mr. President, I'm trying to understand. The police have not been involved in escorts since 6 August 2014. Without escorts, people are taken back to the airport. By whom? By the Office of Foreigners!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u45	No, no! They enter Zaventem but not Belgium because they have no papers. They are on Zaventem's tarmac and must pass control. There they are arrested because they lack papers. They therefore do not enter the country. In this regard, the Chicago Convention says that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u46	They must be taken back to the airport from where they come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u47	And by the airline that brought them to Zaventem! It is responsible and must also bear the costs. The police are not involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u48	I fully understood that. If a person is in the territory of the airport, neutral zone, he or she is taken back to where he or she comes from. In your reply, you explained to us that the police are no longer providing escorts to the airport, but you said that, despite everything, this repatriation was organized. In the case of Guinean, there was an accompaniment to the airport, since this person was on Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u49	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u50	Did this person come by plane?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u51	Yes, yes, yes! For the moment, there are no Guineans on Belgian territory who are being expelled with police escort. This has not been the case since last August. If one finds that a person, upon arrival at the airport, is undocumented and has nothing to do in Belgium, he cannot cross the Belgian border.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u52	Was this person returned to Guinea or to the airport from which he came?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u53	I'm not sure of anything. I'm not sure it was the Royal Air Maroc company. I think it was Casablanca airport, but I'm not sure. I also don't know if that person was brought back to Guinea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u54	In your opinion, she would have been taken back to the original airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u55	She was repatriated by the Royal Air Maroc without calling on Belgian police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u56	You are referring here to a particular case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-04-54-commissie-ic080x.u57	Mr Kir, your question No 1940 is transformed into a written question at the request of the Secretary of State.
