ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the Supreme Council of Health issued, a few months ago, an opinion on the safety of medical and non-medical prenatal ultrasound. He pleaded for medical ultrasound examinations for the sole purpose of screening, diagnosis and follow-up by doctors and technicians trained in ultrasound during pregnancy. On the other hand, he strongly advised against the use of ultrasounds without medical purpose, so-called comfort. These are souvenir ultrasounds or commercial ultrasounds. The Council justifies its recommendation by citing the adverse effects resulting from prolonged exposure of the foetus to ultrasound. In fact, to obtain a maximum quality image, certain parts of the foetus, in this case the head and genitals, undergo prolonged exposure to ultrasound for a specified period of time. Minister, let me ask you a few specific questions. Will any initiatives be taken in this area following the opinion of the Supreme Council of Health? Do you have data on the number of ultrasounds performed without a medical indication? Is it on the rise today? What is the required average recommended by physicians for the number of prenatal medical ultrasounds to be performed during pregnancy? Is it possible to draw up a list of all imaging centres that perform commercial comfort ultrasounds? Is there any specific training for staff performing this type of ultrasound?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, for a pregnancy that is normally taking place, the number of ultrasounds reimbursed is limited to three, in accordance with the recommendations for this case. This is first of all the first quarter, between eleven and thirteen weeks of amenorrhea. Ultrasound is performed for the purpose of identifying and characterizing multiple pregnancies, assessing the risk of chromosomal abnormalities and detecting certain malformations. The second ultrasound takes place in the second quarter, between 20 and 22 weeks of amenorrhea, to detect certain malformations. A third ultrasound is finally carried out in the third quarter, between 30 and 32 weeks of amenorrhea, for the detection of intrauterine growth delays and certain malformations or the location of the placenta. These examinations are carried out as part of an obstetric community follow-up. These advices are contained in the recommendations on prescribing Belgian medical imaging. They are accessible to all physicians on the FPS Public Health website. Our current campaign, called "Medical images are not holiday photos", actively promotes the implementation of these recommendations. Non-medical prenatal ultrasound is not reimbursed by compulsory health insurance and, in the opinion of the Higher Health Council, non-medical prenatal ultrasound is not justified. INAMI has only the number of benefits included in the compulsory health care insurance but does not have any information on these benefits. The file of the intermutualist agency also does not contain any indication. There is no inventory of centres that perform commercial ultrasounds of comfort and only competent practitioners can perform ultrasounds. Ultrasound remains a medical act that can only be performed by a doctor or that can be entrusted by a doctor to competent practitioners. In any case, to enter into account for a refund, the ultrasound must be protocoled by the doctor himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your responses. Your answer is essentially about the ultrasounds that receive a refund. However, we know that we do ultrasounds called "comfort" or simply to have a memory of the foetus. However, as soon as the Supreme Council of Health has given a very reserved opinion and strongly advises against this type of ultrasound, the precautionary principle should be applied. In other words, perhaps it would be necessary to intervene in relation to this type of ultrasound. How can mothers be better informed about the danger this type of ultrasound can pose to their baby? This subject should possibly be considered in relation to the federated entities. I am thinking here of prevention, training of technicians, raising the awareness of future mothers. Moreover, this technology is evolving very quickly. It would therefore be interesting to conduct ultrasound studies to determine whether ultrasound is likely to threaten the lives of babies. I will therefore allow myself to go back to the subject because a field of action in this area may need to be regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u4	There is a need for vigilance in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u5	Madam Secretary, Royal Decree No. 78 contains, by category of caregivers, the tasks which they may perform. Given the spirit of time in which it was originally written, one departs from the doctor. However, still more tasks are delegated to healthcare professions that are in a lower order of precedence. In recent years there has been on the ground, also by inserting new care professions into the Royal Decree No. 78, more need for task differentiation. I am thinking, for example, of the healthcare professionals who can take over the tasks of nurses and nurses who can take over the tasks of doctors or general practitioners. Rewriting of the Royal Decree No. 78 is therefore one of the major challenges identified in the federal government agreement. The redistribution of tasks can reduce the workload, increase the scope for further training and so on. I have two questions about this. Firstly, can you indicate, specifically for the general practitioner/nurse relationship, what tasks can be transferred? Secondly, is the use of a nurse in any general practitioner's practice a possibility that can be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u6	Mr Demon, you read it correctly. We have also talked about it. Indeed, the coalition agreement states that it is time to review the division of roles, in particular the tasks, in the care and medicine, and thus also to consider how, for example, nurses, more than today, can play a complementary role, alongside the doctors. However, it goes wider than that. It's an explanation for the entire legislature. As you said, it's a big job. It will therefore take some time to get all interested parties around the table and consult all the official advisory bodies of the various health professions. The consultation rounds are in progress. After that, we can come up with a proposal to amend CAB No. 78 on the pursuit of health professions. I have also said, however, that the revision of CAB No. 78 at the same time as reviewing the nomenclature and reviewing hospital funding. These are three large yards, which cannot be seen separately. So I will not anticipate exactly what we will do. First, there will be a consultation round, as well as an exploratory study to analyse the possibility of redistributing responsibilities or transferring tasks to other health professions. This is also on the agenda of the administrations, and we must first know the outcome of this. It is indeed scientifically recommended and it is a global trend. In other countries, too, we see this movement. We have started a very large yard and hope to be able to take a number of steps, in consultation with the sectors concerned. After all, this is a very sensitive royal decision, perhaps even the most sensitive royal decision of medicine, and it therefore requires maximum consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u7	I understand that, Madam Secretary, but you will have your own vision on certain matters, won't you? For example, the General Union for Nurses of Belgium will hold a round table in advance on 16 January. I am getting signals that the HBOV schools would not be invited and that they would not really be welcome if they wanted to register. So the question is whether you will take initiatives yourself. Will you put a certain timing forward? Otherwise, I think it's gonna be hard to get everyone on the same page. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u8	It can be organized on site. Of course there will be invitations from the various unions. That's their right. It is not my custom to invite myself or tell me who should sit at the table. That's up to them. For me, it is important that the round of concerts we hold is complete and reaches everyone on the ground. In the meantime, of course, there will be debates within all kinds of professions that unite their people to talk about it. That is useful, and I hope they will tell us their findings, but you also know that we will all have to put them next to each other. It is not just about the nurses, but also about the midwife, the caregivers and the doctors. They certainly won't all speak out of one mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u9	So you haven't set a date on which you expect answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u10	I have said that I will come to the committee with my action plan on the refinancing of hospitals and I will explain it correctly. But there is ongoing consultation and much has already been done at the organizational level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u11	For example, Mr. Demon, the Minister will present her first plan at the end of March in early April.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u12	Madam President, Minister, recently, researchers have looked at the use of prescription drugs by people who have not been prescribed the medication, or outside the period for which it was prescribed. This study summarizes the data available in 17 regions or countries of Europe and the Mediterranean. The study found a "significant difference" by sex in self-medication. It presents women as a "high-risk category in the non-medical use of prescription drugs" and reveals that the use of prescription drugs is "netly higher among women in all age groups and at all times". Madam Minister, since Belgium is not included in the countries targeted by this study, could you tell me whether there are any figures on this subject for our country? How do you think we can explain this phenomenon? And what steps have been taken, or could be taken, to avoid abuse of medication outside the medical setting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u13	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, we do not have figures for self-medication for prescription drugs. It is true that access via the Internet to health information and discussion forums as well as sites for selling medicines that go beyond the purely national framework encourage patients to try treatments without their doctor's advice. This is why the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products has launched two information campaigns. A first campaign entitled "Medications via the Internet: Don't surf with your health" has already been launched on 19 October 2009. The Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) raised public awareness of the potential risks to their health by purchasing drugs via the Internet outside the legal system. It was also important to remind the general public of the essential role that physicians and pharmacists play in the proper use of drugs and health products. This national campaign focused on the mini-site www.medicaments-par-internet.be still active to date. The Agency's second media campaign "A drug is not a candy" was launched on 12 September 2011. This banner campaign was carried out on different websites but also through press announcements in various newspapers and magazines as well as on public transport in some of the country's major cities. This campaign offers a total of 12 keys for the proper use of medicines so that they can be used rationally and safely. One of these 12 keys takes up the theme "Medecins and pharmacists advise you". The banners of these two campaigns are still on the home page of the AFMPS website. In other words, my services are well aware of the problem of illegal drugs and follow it carefully. A controlled distribution system is available to the patient. In this sense, I can only continue to encourage patients to follow the advice and recommendations of their doctor and pharmacist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You recalled the 2009 and 2011 campaigns. We could imagine re-launching a campaign like that. I am thinking in particular of the young public who, at the time, may not have been targeted by the campaigns, possibly being too young. I also asked you a question about the study which did not concern Belgium. It would appear that the results of this study showed a gender difference in the greater risk to women of these medications taken out of prescription or prolonged after the prescription period. It would be interesting to look into it. This would be of particular interest to the chair of the Social Empowerment Committee, which is particularly concerned with gender equality and of which I am vice-chairman. Madam Minister, of course I am not asking you to answer that at the moment. I am confident that you will address this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u15	Madam Minister, on 1 November, the Royal Decree of 23 August 2014 entered into force, which states that consultations in the office and the surcharge for evening, night and Sunday and public holidays may also be charged by holders of a doctor's degree. The Royal Decree provides that a large number of technical benefits in kind which may now be provided by recognized general practitioners or general medical practitioners with acquired rights or medical specialists may now also be provided by any doctor. Neither the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature nor its amendment to the Royal Decree of 23 August 2014 specify which categories, as set out in paragraph 12 of Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 23 August 2014, fall under the heading "arts'. Can you clarify which of those categories are considered to fall under that heading? You will understand that too broad an interpretation concerns us because of the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my question also concerns this Royal Order of 23 August 2014, published on 16 September 2014 and came into force on 1 November 2014, but it is in a completely different direction from that of my colleague. I would like to take into account its impact on the very large number of doctors, especially general practitioners, who do have an important practice but who are in a plural reality, for example in hospital services, revalidation centres, at the ONE, at Kind&Gezin, in school medicine, in sports medicine, etc. These doctors were alerted by INAMI that they were no longer in the famous criteria, in particular that of the ministerial decree of 1 March 2010. This may put them in great difficulty since they would then lose their approval as a general practitioner even though they have an intense practice, directly with the patients. I have spoken on the subject many times in recent years. I have tabled texts to amend and adapt the conditions for approval of the Ministerial Order of March 1, 2010. But on the basis of this new regulation that came into force on November 1, 2014, I have a series of questions for you. Minister, has this regulation been the subject of consultation with physicians? Do you consider this measure to be the solution to the problem of the loss or risk of loss of accreditation of a large number of general practitioners, who nevertheless have an effective practice with patients? Is this royal decree consistent with the current situation, which would clearly undermine the organization of health care? Have these professionals been informed of this change in legislation and of the existence of this new order? I recall that more than 6,000 doctors had received a letter from INAMI saying that they were at risk of losing their licensure. Will they also receive a letter informing them of this new legislation? Finally, there is a problem that is not resolved at all, since the procedure under which these doctors could recover an INAMI number of general practitioners has not yet been foreseen. One keeps saying that there is a shortage in some areas, especially for general practitioners, and if there is no procedure for them to recover an INAMI number, then one misses the opportunity for them to reinvest as general practitioners. We are not going to ask them to repeat the three years as if they were coming out of the six or seven years of study; they have an effective practice with patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u17	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, in reply to your question, I can tell you that the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984, which lays down the nomenclature, does indeed indicate who is to be referred to in the nomenclature under the term "arts'. Article 1 (12) of the Royal Decree determines the various categories, namely the general practitioner, the general practitioner in training, the general practitioner on the basis of acquired rights, the holder of the doctor's diploma, the medical specialist and the medical specialist in training. All the doctors mentioned above therefore fall under the heading "Private doctors'. Mrs Fonck, as the law and the famous royal decree drawn up at the time by Mrs Onkelinx were already promulgated, I referred your questions to the administration. To date, I have not received an answer. As soon as possible, I will forward the information to you. Actually, I wasn't there at that time. My skills were related to Asylum and Migration. I can at least assure you that the problem is not related to the overcrowded student track. The aim was to find a solution for the 6000 doctors who risked losing their licensure. I will insist on following up on this case. By the publication of the royal decree, they were informed, but I do not know if any other problems remain. In addition to this aspect, to answer your question about the loss of approval of some physicians, I can assure you that the problem concerns far fewer people than those who received this letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your brief reply. I'd like a confirmation. You're saying these two files aren't linked. I would like to hear you say that, but there is still a danger that this royal decision may be abused. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u19	Madam Minister, I am disappointed. I have heard that you have not received a response from your services. Therefore, I believe that your responsibility is either to answer it politically or to force your services to answer my questions. This is an order that was issued during a period of routine business. However, it has a major impact on all the doctors concerned. I suggest that you direct your services to respond to me and inform each doctor concerned to whom they had previously written. While it is important to warn physicians that they will lose their accreditation, it is also appropriate to write to them now to communicate to them the new rules inherent in amending the regulations and, above all, to allow them not to find themselves in a problematic situation. On the other hand, I insist that you provide for a procedure in this order that would allow them to retrieve a general practitioner's licence number. Why? We cannot require them to return to three years as if they were leaving their medical studies and as if they had never had a practice, even though, in the context of school medicine, in the context of hospital services, they show a daily practice and contacts with patients far higher than the minimum standard of 500, prescribed and annually for general practitioners. It will also be a gain in public health organisation if these doctors, for example after a few years in a revalidation service or other, reinvest in general medicine. We need it. Also, plan an ad hoc procedure with a refresher if necessary, but corresponding to their investment at the medical level and in terms of practice. Minister, I would like to stress these various points - it is to the benefit of the state and the organisation of health. This is the minimum we can do with regard to the general practitioners concerned, who have been waiting for many months for a solution sticking to their medical reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u20	Dear colleague, I advise you to come back to committee later to obtain further answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u21	Madam Minister, in April, on the initiative of unfortunately the late Flor Van Noppen, the resolution on Multi-System Atrophy (MSA) was adopted across party boundaries. The authors ask the federal government to release funds for research into the cause, development and treatment of MSA and to ensure that this is done within a multidisciplinary framework. They would also like to see 3 October recognised as an MSA day and urge the government to take the necessary initiatives to raise awareness of the disease. It goes without saying that we think it is very important that the resolution should not be put in the refrigerator. What's the status? What steps will you take to comply with the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u22	Mrs Van Peel, thank you for your question. I welcome the fact that you are following up a very emotional resolution in the Chamber of Representatives of your colleague, former member of our committee, Mr Flor Van Noppen. Firstly, I would like to point out that clinical scientific medical research and basic scientific research fall within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. In general, they are carried out by and supported in the academic setting of the universities, and supported by the scientific organisations of the Communities and Regions, namely the Fund for Scientific Research in Flanders or FWO and the Fund de la Recherche Scientifique in Wallonia and Brussels. Given the rarity of the disorder, it is very important that the research into the causes and treatment of the disease is carried out within the framework of an international cooperation and context. At European level, for example, the European Multiple System Atrophy Study Group can be mentioned. In Belgium, the Belgian plan for rare diseases was launched in February 2014, one of the cornerstones of which is the patient's multidisciplinary approach and the identification of potential centres of expertise. At present, the administration is continuing to do so, as well as developing a plan for integrated care for chronic diseases, which will provide a global framework for dealing with chronic diseases. We cannot continue to plan for each disease separately; this cannot be solved by the administration, especially in the case of the disease mentioned, of which only a few occur in Belgium. We will ensure that all patients are monitored multidisciplinaryly within such a plan, with the necessary flexibility according to the condition. That is the purpose of a major work currently being carried out by the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You can understand why our group will now and then ask questions about this. I think we all owe that to Flor, too. I understand from your answer that it is not possible to draw up a policy for each disease separately. However, I would appreciate it if you could also pay attention to the other point in the resolution, namely the recognition of an MSA day on 3 October, and consider its recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u24	As far as I know, I cannot dictate that a national day be set up, but I will have that checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u25	You can do a lot, I think. I trust it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u26	One can be alongside patient associations, but the thematic days are usually organised by the associations themselves. However, this resolution will be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u27	Madam President, Minister, clinical studies are an important element in granting a marketing authorisation for a medicinal product. An important aspect of such studies is the selection of patients. In this selection, very often certain patients are excluded from the "exclusion criteria', based on, among other things, history or existing comorbidity. In the context of evaluating the quality of the studies carried out, it may be important for the competent officials to be able to check whether the subjects included in the study meet the pre-defined exclusion criteria. This requires access to the patient file in some cases. The information at our disposal shows that the FAGG is unclear as to whether they have access to individual patient files as part of the clinical trial evaluation. This uncertainty can lead to incomplete monitoring of these studies or to possible procedural errors and perhaps even exposure of individual officials to prosecution. In order to clarify this, we would have liked to know from you whether or not the competent officials of the FAGG have access to individual patient files. If the answer is affirmative, in what cases does the right of access apply? If the answer is negative, are you prepared to investigate that right of access?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u28	Ms Van Camp, the staff of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products mentioned by you are sworn officials designated to carry out inspection tasks in accordance with the Royal Decree of 17 December 2008. These officials shall be responsible for monitoring compliance with the laws referred to in Article 4 (3) of the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the FAGG, on implementing acts and on the regulations of the European Community which fall within the competence of the FAGG. In the framework of good clinical practice inspections, these inspectors shall have access to the data of the subjects participating in a clinical study. The sponsor of the clinical study should ensure that the study protocol provides for direct access by the supervisory authority, i.e. the FAGG, to source documents of the study for study-related inspections. The sponsor should also ensure that each subject has given written consent to direct access to medical data related to the study and related inspections. In addition, the competent officials of the BFSA must take the necessary measures to respect the confidentiality of personal data, which they have been informed of in the performance of their duties, and to ensure that such information is used exclusively for the performance of their supervisory tasks. It is indeed important that there is a possibility of supervision, but it must be clearly defined. In addition, it should be traceable who gets what data from patients, as they risk a large exposure of their privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u29	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. You gave a good and practical advice that we will reconnect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u30	Madam Minister, during the discussion of the policy paper, you have already explained the policy on HIV and AIDS. However, I still have a few questions. In 2013, 1 115 new HIV infections were counted in our country, on average three per day. The decrease of 9% compared to 2012 is mainly due to a reduction of infected persons from Sub-Saharan Africa, where there is a decrease of 24%. The Institut Scientifique de Santé Publique and the Institute of Tropical Medicine explain the decline as follows: "This does not mean that fewer Africans are infected with HIV, but that fewer infected have entered Belgian territory. Those who stay in Belgium are sometimes afraid to be tested for fear of being returned. There is still a true HIV tragedy with migrants and sans papers from all over the world. They often remain under the radar of social or medical assistance." Last year, a national HIV plan was proposed. Has an AIDS coordinator been appointed after this? The HIV plan provides for the possibility of taking preventive and therapeutic measures for two specific target groups, migrants and homosexual men. What steps have you taken to achieve this? Can you clarify this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u31	Thank you, Mr Demon, for your question. There was also another question from a colleague of yours in this committee. The HIV plan 2014-2019 has been the subject of a protocol agreement between the federal government and the federated entities. The agreement was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 November 2013. It is therefore necessary to implement the actions of this plan in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. You know that prevention and screening, which are an important part of this plan, are within their remit. There will certainly be consultations on this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. In addition, the Inter-Ministerial Conference expressed the wish to draw up and implement a comprehensive plan for dealing with chronic diseases. In order to avoid fragmentation and duplication of efforts and resources, the implementation of the HIV plan should be integrated into this global approach. However, such synergy should not once again call into question the priorities set out in the HIV plan, in particular who the priority target groups and high-risk groups are. For the treatment programme you mentioned, more research is needed before a decision can be made on the possible benefits of intermittent therapy. It's true there was a plan. However, it was not entirely prepared in consultation with the administration. It must now be implemented within the administration. There were hardly any funds allocated to it either. I have provided a budget that allows a number of resources to go to the implementation of that HIV plan. That's very important. However, you know that I have to manage my resources very efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you yourself point out, it is important that you allocate the resources for the plan and that action is taken on it. However, has an AIDS coordinator been appointed or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u33	I don't have any resources for an AIDS coordinator.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u34	So he hasn't been appointed yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u35	I don't have any resources. If you find someone who wants to do the job for free, you can send it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u36	We will have to look closely at our priorities. We must also look at the figures. We must do something in the whole of the problem, otherwise we will go back to square one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u37	I agree with you. However, coordination can also take place at a different level. I would remind all of you that I can only spend every euro once.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u38	Coordination is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u39	Of course, but we don't necessarily need a coordinator to do that. Like I said, I can't afford it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u40	Madam Secretary, in one of the latest editions of the Doctor's Newspaper, an authoritative cardiological and cardiosurgical scientific association expresses their discontent at the latest RIZIV rules on the recognition of the centres that may be involved in the placement of heart valves through the puncture of a blood vessel rather than in the classical surgical way called TAVI or TAVR. Even a layman will frown the eyebrows when fixing two centers in Aalst and none in West Flanders, nor in Limburg. The programming and reimbursement of interventional cardiological techniques has caused a lot of commotion in recent years. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. What institution or persons have been born during the full holiday period of that strange situation? What criteria were used to explain this remarkable choice? Are you prepared to carry out a critical examination of the current recognition procedures in consultation with, or with sufficient involvement of, the relevant scientific associations in order to neutralize certain less scientific interests?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u41	Mr Vercammen, it seems that a lot of strange things have happened during the holidays that I do not know about. In reply to your first question, I can tell you that the declaration of agreement providing for the refund of the TAVI has been drawn up after intensive consultation, as I have been informed. The criteria for the designation of the hospitals where this treatment is regulated were discussed in the Working Group on Cardiology of the Technical Board for Implants, the TCI, in which both the Belgian Working Group on Interventional Cardiology and the Belgian Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery were represented. Those criteria were already established in 2012. In determining the selection criteria for hospitals, experience with the so-called TAVI valves was used, on the one hand, and experience with the placement of the classic heart valves, on the other. The final recording of the clinical indication for the so-called TAVI valves themselves was done based on the available literature. The full declaration of agreement was only finally submitted to the Technical Board for Implants, the Contracting Committee for Implants and Insurance Institutions and the Insurance Committee in spring 2014. Since there was already agreement in 2012 on the full text, with the exception of the section on the indications of the valves, this was not re-submitted to the Belgian Working Group on Interventional Cardiology and the Belgian Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, which prevented those associations from giving updated advice. To answer your question briefly, I can inform you that the Belgian Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery and the Belgian Working Group on Interventional Cardiology have submitted a joint proposal to amend the declaration of agreement. This will be discussed in the near future and submitted to the Commission's Office for the Meeting of Implants and Invasive Medical Devices. The care providers concerned are certainly sufficiently involved in the decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u42	Madam Secretary, I am delighted that you are not least responsible for what has happened. That's weird, isn't it? I sincerely thank you for that and hope that we will be able to work on it in the future. Our group has every confidence in this, especially given your common sense as a resident doctor and the expertise of our group. We are prepared to assist you in this in a formal and informal manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u43	Mrs. Jadin is still not here. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, the problem of obesity and overweight in the broad sense of the term is important in Belgium. According to the health survey conducted by the Scientific Institute of Public Health (ISSP) in 2008, 47% of the adult population is overweight, while 14% suffers from obesity. There has been a steady increase in this problem in recent years. In addition, the situation of children was particularly challenging. According to the ISSP, 18% of young people are overweight and 5% are obese. The complications of overweight and obesity are known. They are cardiovascular (hypertension) and metabolic (type 2 diabetes), but also hepatic and orthopaedic, not to mention psychological complications. In the long term, there is a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. Based on the finding that the methods used so far in terms of prevention and treatment have not prevented the progression of obesity, and that the need to reflect on new measures to be implemented has been clearly felt, an Obesity Working Group was set up within INAMI and in 2012 developed recommendations for improving the prevention and treatment of overweight and obesity among children and young people. This INAMI working group believes that, in addressing the issue of overweight and obesity, the prevention, early detection and tailor-made therapy components are intrinsically linked. He is, in my opinion, indeed right. Minister, have you been aware of the recommendations made by the Obesity working group set up within INAMI? Do you intend to take concrete action to address this issue and adopt the measures that fall within your competence? Do you intend to empower the other levels of power that have in their skills the prevention and education component? Do you intend to put in place a comprehensive strategy to combat obesity, particularly among children and young people? To this end, have you made or intend to make contact with your competent colleagues at the level of the federated entities? What will happen in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, in response to your questions, I can tell you the following. Overweight and obesity coupled with sedentary life are a major public health issue that concerns most countries around the world, including Belgium. Already in 2006, the National Nutrition – Health Plan was launched to raise awareness of the importance of healthy and balanced eating and active lifestyles. Many actions have been taken. This involves an ambitious and multisectoral policy at all levels of government. It is in this spirit that I intend to continue my efforts by working with the Communities and the Regions to combat bad eating habits and sedentary behaviour. It is in particular the Communities and the Regions which are responsible for prevention. The follow-up of actions is also dealt with by the inter-ministerial conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you. Of course, the Communities and the Regions are responsible for various aspects, including prevention and physical activity. It would be interesting if you would quickly put this issue on the agenda of the interdepartmental conference, since all governments have changed. On the other hand, I would like to stress to you one aspect that falls within your own competence, namely the multidisciplinary approach to evaluation and treatment, whether it is in terms of therapeutic management or the care of different health actors such as psychologists or dietitians. Today, through the conclusions of the INAMI Group on obesity, these measures are still insufficiently implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u47	You know that the presidency of the inter-ministerial conference is rotating. It is not up to me to set the agenda, otherwise it would already be done. I had already asked in December. Pre-conference meetings will take place next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u48	Indeed, the presidency of this inter-ministerial conference is rotating, but for having participated, I know that when there are requests for the inclusion of specific themes on the agenda of the various ministers, of whatever level, the conference's response is always positive. If you have asked, I have no doubt that this subject can be dealt with quickly. I also have no doubt that you can, in your own skills, move forward on the multidisciplinary therapeutic approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u49	Who is the initiative over the last six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u50	Now the initiative comes from Wallonia. Previously, it was the German-speaking Community and Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u51	Thus, we know who must be in a position to organize these interdepartmental conferences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u52	Madam Secretary, this is a question from practice. As everyone knows, a care provider can either deconvention or convention in whole or in part. When the care provider is in agreement, he follows the fixed rates. This leads to price security for the patient. If he doesn't Convention himself, the invoice can of course be higher. The legislator states that the care provider must clearly state whether he is following the rates or not. For example, he can do this via a poster in the waiting room. The RIZIV also has a search engine that allows you to request the status of a doctor. I come to my specific question. When a GP takes blood from a patient and then sends it to a laboratory where it will be processed, the patient does not yet know to which laboratory, and therefore does not know which rate applies. He can't know that. Even for a general practitioner this is difficult, because it is not the laboratory that follows or does not follow the rates, but the provider. Do you agree, Madam Secretary, that if a patient does not know whether his sample will be processed in a laboratory where convenients or non-conventionists work, this can only be billed as a convention? After all, the provider does not inform the patient of his status and the patient does not know it. In our view, the spirit of the law is then that people follow the convention. What is your opinion on this, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u53	Mrs Van Peel, the problem is well known. When discussing measures relating to Article 73 (1) of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, which provides for the charging of supplements by health care providers for benefits in kind, including in clinical biology, a solution must be found in consultation with doctors and sickness funds. The GP can know whether the lab works with conventional tariffs or not. However, these tests are sometimes forwarded to other labs. That doesn't happen with all the tests, but some tests are sent to a specialized lab. Then the price tag may indeed be high. It is usually about tests that are not often asked for. In any case, the necessary consultations should be held on this matter. So far, there has never been a solution to this. That is the eternal dispute over who is convenient and who is not, who is referred to, and whether one knows who is referred to. For the usual operations, however, the GP knows which lab he's working with, as well as whether it's a lab that works against conflicted rates. You have also referred to the search engine, in which you can still look up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u54	Madam Minister, it would indeed be good to hold consultations in order to try to find a solution. I have not heard you say it in so many words, but you yourself are also arguing in the direction we are proposing here, particularly that when a patient cannot know it, the conflicted rate is applied. However, I see you shaking no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u55	I can't impose that. One needs to know who one consults, a convent or a non-conventioned doctor. We have now tried to ask the guards to apply the convention rates, including for non-conventional doctors and also for those with a preferential bill. We can ask that, but we cannot simply impose it legally. We shall, however, continue to hold the necessary rounds of discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u56	It's a real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u57	Minister, on the occasion of World AIDS Day, several health issues were raised. Preventive treatment for people at risk of contamination was thus addressed. I know that you are in favour of this approach which has the advantage of avoiding the people concerned from contracting the disease, with its cohort of treatments with often disabling side effects, but also – in terms of public health – to avoid long-term treatments with the financial burden that this entails. I would like to raise with you another aspect of the fight against this disease. It's the ICCARRE therapeutic program of lightened treatment developed by Professor Leibowitch in France since 2003 and tested on 100 patients. After an attack treatment of one or more semesters, the viral activity being under control for several months, the patient is prescribed a dosed treatment according to his profile, four consecutive days – or even less – per week. On other days, the patient is exempt from treatment. The result is a lack of reactivation of the virus associated with a decrease or even disappearance of toxicological effects due to these treatments over the long term. It also results in better adherence of patients to psychologically and physiologically less restrictive medication. Similar experiments have also been successfully conducted at NIH NIALD in the United States. A debate is taking place today among specialists on the relevance of this approach. To be definitively validated, it requires an expanded experiment. Minister, what is the position of Belgian HIV specialists in this regard? Have you ever been asked by the medical profession to experiment with similar clinical trials in Belgium? Does current regulations allow this? What is your ministry's position with regard to this project, which, if validated, would bring, in addition to greater comfort to patients, a substantial savings, between 40 and 80 % of the cost of treatment, to the social security budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u58	Mr Flahaux, to date, the AIDS reference centres in Belgium are treating patients according to international recommendations. Our specialists have not submitted any applications for funding for the ICCARRE program to INAMI. In addition, the specialists did not propose testing for such a treatment program during the development of the AIDS Plan, which was officially presented in October 2013. Subsequently, since the early 2000s, in the United States and France, scientific drug studies have examined the feasibility of simplifying treatment for antiretroviral patients in case of virological success. There are few studies. Pharmaceutical firms appear to have little interest in this approach to dose and number reduction. Some conclusive results have been achieved, but unfortunately, on a small number of patients and have failed to reassure HIV specialists on the safety of switching to intermittent treatment. The main fear of clinicians is the introduction of virus resistance to antiretroviral therapy through this practice. This is the danger: if the change in diet results in virological failure with the emergence of new mutations leading to resistance, the patient will require more complex, more difficult-to-follow treatment regimens with more side effects. So far, I have not received an application for scientific studies to this effect for Belgium. The French, American and European therapeutic recommendations all include a chapter on optimising antiretroviral treatment in case of virological success. The goal of optimisation is to improve quality of life, promote long-term compliance and reduce costs by reducing drug intakes, reducing side effects, and preventing long-term toxicity. These therapeutic recommendations also make it very clear that the principle of this simplification is to maintain viral suppression without compromising a future treatment option. The three therapeutic recommendations mentioned above explicitly state that treatment interruptions, including sequential and intermittent interruptions, are not recommended options. Belgian HIV experts are active members of the European AIDS Clinical Society and have actively participated in the drafting of the recommendations. Antiretroviral drugs are reimbursed on the basis of a request from the doctor's mutual care counsel. In Chapter 4, the reimbursement criteria include the criteria for diagnosis and severity of the disease, as well as a maximum dose not to be exceeded. Physicians or researchers who would like to apply intermittent treatment to their patients would not encounter any barriers to obtaining reimbursement of drugs. They may encounter them at the legal level as intermittent treatment is not one of the recommended treatments and, as I said, could be dangerous for the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. You said that the pharmaceutical companies are not in favour of it. I'm not surprised. I'd tend to say we had a little doubt about it. In fact, they kind of make their butter on the number of medicines sold. If one interrupts partially, necessarily, it pays them less. Minister, I understand that you have the will to do more with less. It's a possible lead. I agree with you that these tests are still too few to make them a complete philosophy. It would nevertheless be worth it if you could obtain the results of these experiments in France and the United States from this point of view. Finally, you mentioned the possible risk of resistance to the virus that this could cause. It's an important aspect I hadn't thought about. Thank you for paying attention. I will probably come back to this type of questioning at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u60	Mrs. Muylle is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, in your general policy note, you state that, I quote: "In 2015, after the negotiations in the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, we will work to extend drafts Article 107 to achieve full coverage of Belgian territory." As you know, these Article 107 projects are particularly important for multidisciplinary care, including psychiatric patients treated outside of institutions, for which remarkable field work is being carried out. A feasibility study carried out by an academic consortium in January 2014 refers to an evaluation of the reform of these Article 107 projects in 2014. Minister, is this assessment being conducted today? Did the university consortium write an evaluation report at the end of 2014? Have you been aware of these results? Could you enlighten us about them? It would be logical, given the number of debates we have already had on draft Article 107, for you to send us a copy of the evaluation of the university consortium. On the other hand, criticisms are sometimes expressed about the reform, particularly with regard to the lack of a definition of the target group, stressing also the need to reflect in depth on the concept of the art of care and changes in the tasks performed by nurses (especially psychiatric) and the need for reflection on the funding to be given to this sector. Minister, how do you intend to integrate these thoughts into your mental health policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u62	Madam President, I have also prepared an answer to Mrs Muylle's question. The answer will therefore be in Dutch and French. It is true that provision is made for the financing of premiums to nurses in the context of the mental health reform projects, in accordance with the provisions of Article 107. These are nurses who were initially employed in neuropsychiatry services for the observation and treatment of patients, so-called A services, or in neuropsychiatry services for the treatment of adult patients, with certificate T, provided that they are in possession of the special professional title "special professional qualification in mental health and psychiatry'. If a nurse was initially not employed in an A or T service, but was recruited, for example, as part of the start-up of these teams, no premium will be paid by the FOD. As regards neuropsychiatry services for the observation and treatment of children, with certificate K, an adaptation of the recognition standards is necessary and ongoing. The premium for the special professional title or competence shall be granted only for hospitals and rest homes for the elderly and rest and nursing homes. The extension of the measure to psychiatric care homes and sheltered housing initiatives is not currently planned. As every year, the university team in question conducted an analysis. It will be communicated in the course of February to the persons concerned because they have the right to know about it before it is disseminated to the general public, and also here. I will give adequate attention and at least equivalent attention to the evaluation of care projects, in the light of the continuing reform of mental health care in our country. This must be taken into account, but all other aspects of the reform must also be seen in consultation with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u63	Minister, this is still a subject to be dealt with at an interdepartmental conference. I would like you to send us the evaluation spontaneously in February. I understand very well that the services get to know it before the general public, it seems to me to be a minimum of respect. Thank you for sending it to the committee in due course. As regards the contribution of the work carried out by draft articles 107, it would be important to have full coverage of Belgian territory. And if there are developments in these projects, it will be necessary to take into account the reality of the teams that now have experience in the field. Finally, you talked about the bonuses for psychiatry nurses. It would be important for you to analyze the ability to lift discrimination against these nurses who work in Article 107 projects. They have the right titles but it is not necessary to discriminate between the different neuropsychiatric care so that they can benefit from the premiums that correspond to their titles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u64	Madam Minister, the latest announcement of results dates back some time ago. Holidays got in the way. The latest survey conducted by the Scientific Institute for Health shows that the percentage of smokers in five years only fell by 1.5 %, from 24.5 % in 2008 to 23 % in 2013. For young people aged 15-24, the proportion of smokers fell from 25% to 22%, which is of course better, but it rose remarkably in women aged 15-24. For the first time, the proportion of smokers in young women is 22.5%, higher than in young men, 21%. This is a worrying observation, because the number of cases of lung cancer increases every year and lung cancer has now become the main cause of death in women aged 55-64. The health survey also shows that roll tobacco is more popular with young people and women. The percentage of daily smokers in young people aged between 15 and 24 using roll tobacco increased from 29% in 2008 to as much as 45% in 2013. Especially in women, roll tobacco has become particularly popular. Due to a relatively favourable tax rate, still compared to ordinary cigarettes, a rolled cigarette is four times cheaper. The prices in Belgium are also much cheaper than in our neighbouring countries. For example, in 2014 a pack of 50 grams of rolling tobacco of the same brand in Belgium cost 5,60 euros, in the Netherlands 8 euros and in France 12,30 euros. That is more than double the price in Belgium. The sales of roll tobacco in our country had a record level in 2013. In that year, 850 000 roll tobacco smokers were counted compared to 500 000 in 2012. Madam Secretary, are you as concerned as I am about this evolution? Have you taken measures to reverse this trend? What is your opinion on the difference in tax rates between ordinary cigarettes and rolling tobacco? What is your opinion on the possible increase in excise duties on roll tobacco? Couldn't that be a dissuasive method to stop this evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u65	Madam Secretary, I am not a member of this committee. I have not yet seen all my fellow Members after New Year's and wish everyone, as it applies in this Committee on Health, good health. My question is about cigarettes, which by definition are not healthy. The latest published study of the annual studies carried out by KPMG on cigarette sales in Europe states, among other things, that as of 2013, cigarette sales in our country are falling annually, and that is, of course, a good thing. Compared to 2012, the decrease is more than 10%. In the rest of Europe, too, there is a decline in cigarette consumption, but not as strong as we do. KPMG's investigation also states that 7,6% of all cigarettes sold in our country come from counterfeit cigarettes. In 7.6 % of the cases a package of Marlboro or Lucky Strike does not appear to be real. In absolute figures, 790 million illegal cigarettes were smoked in Belgium in 2013. The total number of illegal cigarettes sold seems to remain fairly stable. There is a decrease compared to the previous year, but it is a bit more than in 2010 and 2011, while total sales are falling significantly. It is well known that illegal cigarettes are manufactured mainly in Eastern Europe, and in particular in Belarus. By selling illegal cigarettes, the Treasury obviously misses excise duties, VAT and corporate taxes. In addition, we have a very high health risk for people who smoke counterfeit cigarettes, because in 2011 the Public Health Office carried out a study on 280 packets of 14 illegal cigarette brands, which showed that these cigarettes contain up to twice the permitted levels of carbon monoxide or tar. Madam Minister, the report has therefore raised a number of questions for me. Firstly, have there been any checks since 2011 on the additional harmfulness of illegal cigarettes in relation to the already harmful ordinary cigarettes? What are the results of that investigation, if any? Secondly, is the FPS Public Health working with the Customs Administration and with the FPS Economy to tackle these illegal practices? If so, who takes the lead, who is the initiator and how are the contacts going? If not, are there any plans to work together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u66	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Vermeulen, thank you for your questions. Mrs Jiroflée, I can answer your first question that I am certainly not insensitive to the figures in the health survey. I also know, through all the years I've had on my counter, how many preventive actions have already been taken at all levels. You know that yourself, because you have been a provincial delegate and several provincial actions have been carried out. Nevertheless, the figures remain dramatic, not only for men but also for women. We have noted this for a number of years. There is an increasing number of women smoking. Very worrying, however, is that this is also about very young girls. My cabinet staff have had a series of talks with representatives of the FPS Health Department. According to experts, a price increase is one of the effective measures to reduce smoking behaviour. The government has therefore decided to introduce an increase in excise duties. For cigarettes, 20 euro cents per package will be added and for rolling tobacco 45 euro cents per 50 grams will be added. This is a significant price increase, which should lead to a reduction in the difference in the tax rate between ordinary cigarettes and rolling tobacco. Moreover, the price increase will be partly dissuasive and may have an impact on smoking behaviour in young people. Of course, that's not the end of the story. A further study is being carried out, together with the experts from the Public Health Office, on what additional measures should be taken in order to further reduce tobacco consumption among young people in particular and to prevent, if possible, tobacco consumption. Indeed some cigarette brands were analysed by the FPS Public Health. This concerned only cigarettes from the regular circuit. All products complied with tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide standards, but cigarettes contain other products, which may not have been proven to have a harmful effect at this stage; however, this may appear later. No cigarettes were analysed that were picked by customs from the illegal circuit. We know from past analyses that such cigarettes are usually not fine with, for example, tar or carbon monoxide levels. It is a fact that smuggled or counterfeit cigarettes pose an even more serious risk. Cigarettes from the regular circuit also remain very harmful and carcinogenic. There is therefore only one message to all possible users: quit smoking! The fight against illegal cigarettes is mainly conducted by customs and police. These services are legally competent and have the expertise. The inspectors of the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS Health Department are rarely or never confronted with such illegal circuits during their checks. However, an examination of the composition of cigarettes can also be requested if a shipment is seized. It is mainly the duty of customs and police to intercept the traffic of cigarettes to our country, wherever they end up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u67	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can only say that the Foundation against Cancer is also very concerned about these trends and about the fact that roll tobacco is so much cheaper than ordinary cigarettes and is more used by women. If we look at the numbers of lung cancer in women and put them in addition, then we must be particularly concerned about this. Indeed, a lot is already being done to discourage the public from smoking. It's not easy. I am certainly not only in favour of increasing excise duties. I believe that tougher measures should go hand-in-hand with more measures aimed at prevention. In any case, I am deeply concerned by the phenomenon, because the most vulnerable in our society are often least concerned with health. They also use cheap rolling tobacco. I personally do not see any objective reason why the difference in excise duties between ordinary cigarettes and rolling tobacco should be so large, but I suppose we will talk about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have also asked the Minister of Finance on the same subject, because the sale of illegal cigarettes also has a financial impact, but the financial aspect is of course subordinate to the health risk derivatives, to which, moreover, there is always a financial aspect. You yourself said that there is an integrated approach. Cooperation between the various administrations could still be intensified. I would therefore like to call for analyses to be carried out on seized illegal cigarettes, just to know what new substances, sometimes more harmful than before, may be contained in these illegal cigarettes. Smokers often know that they smoke illegal cigarettes. It is said that this is also being tasted, but if one suddenly finds out that there are many more harmful substances in it, then perhaps it can also create a deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u69	I have no doubt that tobacco and cigarettes will be discussed again in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u70	Madam President, when I joined the Health Committee in 1999, a pipe, a cigar and a cigarette were lit here until we did not even see each other sitting by the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u71	The most beautiful law is that which prohibits smoking in restaurants. When you like to eat, it's a real pleasure to eat without the smell of cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u72	Today, you can only imagine at the restaurant, someone can smoke at the table next door. Yet it was a difficult debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u73	Madam President, Minister, this has been demonstrated on several occasions: increased use of biosimilar drugs presents many opportunities for both patients and health insurance. Thus, it is accepted that biosimilar medicines provide a concrete opportunity to treat patients who, for budgetary reasons, do not qualify for reimbursement of the expensive brand treatment. They participate in this way to make health care accessible to more people. Despite these positive aspects, however, it appears that biosimilars are under-used in our country. Such a situation contrasts with the rise of these medicines in many other European countries, while the arrival of EPO biosimilar on the Belgian market allows INAMI to save no less than EUR 40 million each year. By comparison, biosimilaires represent a 45% market share in Germany, where their use in our home is close to zero. Minister, as we can see, the benefits of increased use of biosimilar drugs appear to be multiple. However, in your policy statement, which I have read carefully, I have not seen any mention of this type of medicine. As far as the government agreement is concerned, you are merely committed to pursuing the policy initiated by your predecessor in this area, which is to encourage and encourage their use. Madam Minister, is an increase in the proportion of drugs consumed annually in Belgium a priority for your government? If so, what steps do you intend to take to achieve this goal and to encourage patients to turn more to this type of medication? Moreover, as the KCE has pointed out, there are still many fears and misunderstandings about biosimilar medicines, which, however, meet the highest standards of quality, safety and efficacy. How do you plan to fill this information gap with patients and health care professionals? Finally, some experts in the generic drug sector argue for a five-year plan for biosimilar medicines to create a sustainable business climate for companies marketing this type of medicine. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u74	Madam President, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. Indeed, biosimilar medicines can be an equivalent alternative for patients called bionaifs, i.e. patients who have never taken this molecule in its original state, at a lower cost for health insurance. I note with you that their use in Belgium is nevertheless negligible. The government agreement therefore provides for the continuation of the existing policy that promotes and encourages cheap drugs, including biosimilars, when they provide a valid therapeutic alternative. One of the recommendations of the KCE is to allocate the same basis of reimbursement to original biologics and biosimilar drugs. My policy will take this recommendation into account. In the meantime, I have started discussions with the pharmaceutical industry in the original medicines sector as well as in the generics sector as well as with representatives of doctors in order to have a clearer idea of the feasibility and accession on the ground with regard to several proposals. An information campaign based on the scientific evaluation of the Medicines Agency is also one of the possibilities to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u75	Madam Minister, I thank you for these elements of the response which, as a first step, were obviously sweeping the biosimilar field as to the existing policy that will be pursued and the recommendations of the KCE that you are making. I am pleased that there is a review of the feasibility and field membership of these possibilities and that this could be pursued through an information campaign. We have repeated it this morning in the order of work, we will come back in a much more focused and detailed way on this issue which I believe is important for both patients and healthcare professionals. As a first step, I thank you for these elements of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u76	Madam Minister, Belgium is not only the leading country in Europe in terms of taxation. We have yet another little to envy first place, because we are also number one in relation to expenditure on pharmaceutical bills. The average resident in this country pays no less than EUR 550 per year for medicines, which is EUR 200 more than the European average and even EUR 355 more than the best pupil in the European class, in particular Denmark. This can be seen in the report Health at a glance: Europe of the OECD. The same problem was raised earlier by Professor Lieven Annemans in his much-read book The price of your health. There are two reasons for this high price. There is, on the one hand, a general culture of quick access to medicines among the average citizens, but, on the other hand, the proportion of generic medicines is inadequate, mainly because they are not prescribed enough. Even when used, they are often not the cheapest medicines on the market. It goes without saying that lower and smarter drug use is also healthier for our state treasury. That's why I would have liked to know the following. What do you intend to do to reduce the amount of drug spending? Are you thinking of broadening the policy that promotes cheap medicines? Are you thinking of strengthening competition in the market, for example through a more transparent pricing system, or are you looking to reach out to the doctor, who should prescribe more effectively? If so, what are we to imagine? What measures do you prefer? When do they get on the table? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u77	In reply to your question, Mr Vercammen, I can tell you that my administration has developed a system of individual feedback from healthcare professionals to assess the extent to which recommendations on rational use of medicinal products are being followed. We will intensify this system in the coming years. It will be enhanced by the generalised use of electronic medical software, which will use scripts to help with the prescription. The Programme Act provides for a replacement of the definition of "cheap' by the definition of "cheap' as applicable to the measure on the delivery of cheapest medicinal products under rules on "dust name'. This means that only the three cheapest medicines or all medicines within a fork of 5% above the cheapest will now be considered cheap. The prescription quotas of the doctors will count. Products that do not identify themselves at this price level will continue to be refunded. However, they are not eligible for the new prescribing quotas, which should be as good as possible. That's already an incentive to encourage the doctor to prescribe the cheapest medicine. The designated communication channels will be developed in consultation with the doctors. A first qualitative evaluation will be carried out in July 2015 in consultation with the representative physician syndicates. A quantitative evaluation will take place in January 2016 on the basis of data from the first eight months of 2015. In the recently concluded Medicomut agreement, doctors and insurance institutions also supported this measure. In order to stimulate the movement towards the cheapest possible medicines, it will be legally examined whether the inclusion in the refundability of new generic medicinal products after opening the reference cluster can only be allowed if the generic medicinal products are not higher in price than within the fork of 5% of the cheapest rules. In addition, I have also proposed to the doctors a number of measures to work on the volume and reduce the medicines used. The campaign we launched at the end of December for better and, above all, less use of antibiotics is an example of this. We will also have to evaluate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's quite enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u79	Madam President, Minister, I have a question on the establishment law for pharmacies, which was amended in 2014. A number of criteria were then laid down to determine where new pharmacies could be opened on the basis of the geographical distribution and the number of inhabitants per municipality. That seems to be a very logical argument, but it is reported that there are some problems and that there are some questions. The rules governing the opening of a new establishment would allegedly be bypassed by the provisions of the same establishment law, i.e. § 5bis, which allows the transfer of a pharmacy to a neighbouring municipality. It is noted that a pharmacy is often transferred from the city to the outskirts, which creates competition with existing pharmacies in the outskirts and which see pharmacies reduce their customers. Paragraph 5a, however, applies as a criterion: "insofar as this transfer results in a better geographical or demographic distribution of the pharmacies compared to the situation of the transfer." There is a certain amount of concern and fear. This threatens to jeopardise the economic viability of existing pharmacies if they fail to apply a certain ratio. Madam Secretary, do you know of any such complaints or problems? Did you get any reports of problems with economic viability? Is there any provision for an evaluation of the implementation of this application, including, where appropriate, an adaptation of the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u80	The Royal Decree of 25 September 1974 on the opening, transfer and merger of pharmacies opened to the public lays down the criteria under which a transfer or opening authorization may be granted. The distribution law was introduced because there was a far too high concentration of pharmacies in urban areas. You should take a walk behind Parliament. I know there's at least five of them. In addition, some rural areas were neglected. It is true that the regulations of the municipalities are based on them. It is up to them to determine the demographic and geographical distribution criteria. However, the aim remains to organise the distribution to protect public health in all regions of the country. The ground to allow the transfer to a neighboring municipality fully applies to this ratio legis. The aim is to encourage the pharmacist of urban areas with far too high concentration to the more rural outskirts. Only in recent years is this provision beginning to have an effect. Specifically, with regard to the economic viability of pharmacies, I am particularly aware of problems in urban areas where there is an overconcentration of pharmacies. In these areas, pharmacies are also closed by permanent closure or merger. I am aware of the resistance of local pharmacies in peripheral municipalities when a pharmacy is transferred to the municipality concerned on the basis of a better distribution. I have no knowledge of pharmacies which should therefore close down in the outskirts of town or be no longer viable. Any changes to the Royal Decree could be considered, but only after consultation of the sectors and interest groups concerned. In addition, competition aspects must also be submitted to the Competition Authority. Of course, this should also be seen in the context of the importance of the patient consumer, given that healthy competition is an incentive for quality pharmacy services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The starting point for a good distribution for public health is undoubtedly the most logical one for everyone. I just wonder what the effect will be after these adjustments. Hence my question as to whether you will also provide a systematic evaluation or a geographical map, which will allow us to see the effect? You say that an adjustment could be made after consultation with the various groups. An additional question is whether you intend to systematically evaluate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u82	Mrs Becq, there are always people who are satisfied and people who are not satisfied. We have decided to ask to what extent it leads to problems. After all, calculations are always made to decide whether or not a dossier is approved. I've already gotten several files rejected. A calculation is always made on the basis of the number of inhabitants, the geographical distribution and the proximity of other pharmacies. It's always been done. There must be a motivation to move a pharmacy, otherwise it will not be approved. There has to be a better geographical distribution. For example, if there is only one pharmacy in a peripheral municipality and a pharmacy is added, then the cake is divided into two. Of course it is. However, the problem of too many pharmacies does not yet arise outside the cities. There are mergers and relocations, but it is a complicated system with always different calculations. If the system is suffering from childhood diseases, we will have to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u83	So you want to deal with any problems. You also want to ask people to automatically signal problems to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u84	They can do that already. I don't need everyone to be referred to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u85	That was the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u86	It is true that there is also the criterion relating to the number of inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u87	There is also the issue of accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u88	Madam Minister, I read a remarkable message in De Tijd a month ago announcing the opening of the first Medi-Market in Belgium, a shop in parapharmaceutical products combined with a pharmacy for medicines. In five years' time, there should be 20 branches in Belgium. It is particularly ambitious and it is stated that the distribution of parapharmaceuticals is in need of reinvention. Without wanting to be for or against, that raises some questions. After all, the consequences of such hybrid mega-shops can be far-reaching. They seem to want to compete with traditional pharmacies, supermarkets, bioshops and online shopping, all sectors with their own challenges, where politics is mostly involved. The new shops seem to bring the mix of the medical and commercial aspects even closer. Although the problem is complex, I can keep my question limited. Are you, or are your services, aware of the ambitious project? Have the possible consequences been considered? How will the retail formula be watched? Finally, I would also like to know whether you feel that evolution is positive or negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u89	Madam Secretary, recently the first Medi-Market in our country opened the department store for everything related to health. The department store wants to compete with ordinary pharmacists in our country with lower prices and a wide range of products for all health products for which no prescription is required or which are not registered as a medicine. These include natural medicines, moisturizing ointments and lubricants, baby foods and food supplements. The General Pharmaceutical Association has questions about this and fears that it is a first step towards further commercialisation of the pharmacies. The APB cites the United States as an example, where giant pharmacies have in no time become ordinary department stores, where alcohol and soft drinks are also sold and where there is still a pharmacy hidden behind it. Real pharmacists guide and follow patients on their medications. What control mechanisms are in place to prevent public pharmacies from becoming shops in the long term? Have you had any discussions with the APB about this and made any policy suggestions? Do you know of any other requests for new Medi-Markets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u90	Madam Secretary, I am as concerned as the previous speaker. Recently a Medi-Market was opened in Gosselies and today we have the first parafarmacie supermarket in our country. If it's up to the founder and I didn't freak out, Brussels, Antwerp and Liège can expect a Medi-Market next year. He has big plans, because he wants to open 20 such things by 2020. It concerns more than seven thousand parapharmaceutical products. That's a huge amount. Medicines will also be available in the supermarket, but via a detour. In the same building there is a glass door and a separate entrance. As the owner said, it is a Decathlon store, which is very commercial and is followed by a pharmacy. Fortunately, in Belgium we have always pursued a very strict policy when it comes to the delivery of medicines. The delivery of medicines was deliberately chosen for the pharmacy, where advice and guidance are put at the centre and where the commercial aspect remains in the background. We have succeeded in this. The pharmacists have not become traders. There are few that derail and when that is the case, the Order calls them on the mat. It is my concern whether that pharmacist will continue to give advice as a pharmacist in a mega supermarket or will go along with that commercial logic. In the United States of America this aspect has also been cited by the people of the There it also started with parafarmacie and meanwhile one can even get alcohol and other soft drinks. Madam Minister, Belgium has inspection services which can be closely monitored. Will these services investigate whether the supermarket that is here today meets the legal requirements? Do you have any information on this? Will they continue to do so in the longer term, provided that the legal requirements are met? Secondly, the use of medicines in our country is high. We often have debates on this in committee. What will be the impact of such a supermarket on drug use? Will it raise again? I hope that you will be vigilant, that you will consider whether or not to intervene and take initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u91	Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said, as the context has been mentioned. What concerns me is not the setting up of parapharmacies. In fact, pharmacies sell so-called health products (in a broad sense) or beauty products. What bothers me is the name of the trade and the products offered there. In De Morgen, the head of Medi-Market said that he had found a trick to be able to associate parapharmacy and pharmacy. Thus a transparent door has been provided between each store to allow customers to move from one party to another. Minister, can you assure me that the law on the establishment of pharmacies will be respected? Indeed, it is not possible to allow the installation, in catini, of a pharmacy by associating it with a parapharmacy? By joining the two names, there is a risk of undermining the role of the pharmacist as a health professional, who has seen his role increased in the counselling and follow-up of certain patients and in terms of access to the patient's medical records. On the other hand, I agree with the fears expressed in terms of over-consumption and self-medication. So how can inspection services be mobilised to ensure that the pharmacist's duties are respected, given this kind of commercial activity which, of course, is intended to stimulate consumption? There is a potential conflict here between the information given to the client and the information given to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u92	The opening of one Medi-Market has caused a lot of swell here, but it seems to be early to make an assessment of the consequences. So far, it is not clear that this new sales formula for our country would lead to a disruption of the pharmacy services market at the expense of patients-consumers. It is true that parapharmaceutical products and pharmaceutical products are offered in one location, albeit with a glass door in between, but the only thing that can be said is that this is already the case in many pharmacies today. Medi-Market currently meets all legal requirements. As regards market surveillance, this is generally governed by the Code of Economic Law. It concerns the protection of economic competition and market practices. For the part of the pharmacy, the Royal Decree of 25 September 1974 on the opening, transfer and merger of pharmacies opened to the public must be complied with, which provides for ex ante control of the location of the establishment in the public interest. The operation of the pharmacy is further subject to specific legislation, in particular the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on training for pharmacists, and to special supervision by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Finally, those pharmacists are also subject to deontological supervision. It is therefore up to us to monitor the pharmaceutical operations in this respect. Of course, my services will closely monitor this development and propose measures in consultation with the various partners, such as the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (APB) or the Office des Pharmacies Coopératives de Belgique (OPHACO), if this proves necessary for the benefit of the patient or the consumer. So it's too early to intervene. An infringement must be established before action can be taken. The articles explained in detail that they also currently comply with all legal requirements. Probably a transfer of a pharmacy has also been requested and the construction of a pharmacy/parafarmacie has been set up around it. Although they now comply with all legal requirements, our inspection services remain very alert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u93	Madam Minister, it may be a little premature, but I would like to draw you out a little bit by asking you what your opinion is about this as a general practitioner and as a doctor. My personal fear is that not the smartest people are the most susceptible. There is also a market given around. We will probably have ample opportunity to express an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u94	Madam Secretary, a good follow-up seems important to me. Of course, it doesn't need to be reported to you whether new Medi-Markets will be opened soon, but do you know?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u95	I read that, like you, in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u97	Madam Secretary, what I feared was true: they comply with all the laws because they use a back door, which makes you a little stuck today as a minister. That is, however, today. In the long term, there must certainly be consultation with the actors on the field, and I am thinking primarily of the pharmacists' associations and also of the cooperative pharmacies, the different pharmacies that exist. Similar shifts have taken place in the Netherlands and can now be obtained in shops such as the Kruidvat, for example. Such tendencies happen very quickly. In Belgium, we have always had a very good image in the field of health, and I hope that you, as a minister, take the right initiatives. In fact, the founder had proudly in the newspaper called out that he would open up as many as twenty of such "Decathlons" for health services. I don't think that's what we're doing, given our image. I therefore hope that you will take the right initiatives to stop them, to the extent that this can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u98	I can only act within the legal possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u99	Minister, you can only intervene within the framework of the law, and it may be too early to worry. However, it is interesting to anticipate because we are at the border between, on the one hand, structures subject to regulation and to the framework of health professionals and pharmacies and, on the other hand, parapharmacies which are subject to other rules. There is, of course, a trend towards self-medication and products that are not, or sometimes are, medicines but do not receive reimbursement. It is therefore possible to imagine power ratios and drifts that could be established over time. It is therefore interesting to anticipate and determine what rules should be put in place to prevent drifts. It is also known that power relations can be established between large, multinational-style players and small, independent pharmacists who can lead to changes in the structure of the pharmaceutical landscape. This is one of the risks that need to be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u100	We remain very attentive to this, but, as it appears in the law, there is nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u101	This remains a matter to follow, both for you and for us, for the Medicines Agency, etc. We need to make sure everything's going right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u102	Questions Nos 880, 881 and 882 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u103	Madam Minister, last May, just before the end of the legislature, the law on internment was adopted. It was published on 9 July 2014. It is a very crucial law, which became clear in the last month on the matter of Frank Van den Bleeken. It is necessary for interned persons to have a better legal status and, of course, a better residence situation. The law has been extensively prepared and elaborated, with hearings in the Senate at the time, but it also requires broad implementation. There is also a section in the law on legal psychiatry. We all know that court psychiatrists are paid very late. What we do not know, however, is that they are often also very badly paid. For example, for a dossier, a flat-rate amount of about 370 euros is paid. Whether people work 12, 16 or 24 hours on it makes no difference. The court psychiatrist in the case of Kim De Gelder then earned 2 euros an hour. There are very committed court psychiatrists who have to do the work as a hobby, because they cannot make it an independent activity. That is why an amendment was tabled at the time to the law on internment to regulate the usual fee through the RIZIV, as it also concerns doctors and the hourly wage would be as high as the usual fee through the RIZIV. A court psychiatrist plays an important role in the administration of justice and is of exceptional importance for the defendant and the judge to be able to make a correct ruling. However, there are no training opportunities for legal psychiatrists and the working conditions are poor. It will therefore be particularly difficult to determine whether or not someone is responsible. That is why the law stipulates that a cell quality assurance should be provided within the FPS Public Health. Such a cell also exists in the Netherlands. Its purpose is to verify that the reports comply with certain quality standards, both substantive and formal. Now the reports are very diverse, they are very well worked out and they are not worked out. In order to ensure that the recognition and payment of the court psychiatrist is fair, it is also important to develop quality assurance. That is why I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What initiatives will you take to ensure that the law is implemented? What about the preparation and establishment of the cell quality assurance to ensure quality? Who's the cell gonna be? When will that cell be operational? Do you know how much resources will be needed to properly pay the court psychiatrists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u104	Mrs Van Hoof, although the government still provides for some adjustments, the aspect of concern in this law is already being examined and prepared by my administration. For example, an opinion was prepared by the Joint Working Group on Forensic Psychiatry on the recognition criteria for the new professional title at level 3 for forensic psychiatry, as mentioned in the final opinion of the Supreme Medical and Medical Council of October 2014. This expert working group warns against the specific provision in Article 5 (5) before they are sent to court. According to members, this could lead to delays in the judicial handling of the files. By the way, it is in the law that the Public Health Office only provides for the cell quality monitoring to be set up. The FPS Public Health does not vouch for the payment of the court psychiatrists. The organisation and task implementation of this cell will therefore determine the budget to be provided by the Justice Department; this is not yet specified in the law. You will have to address your questions about the means, the working conditions, the payment and the delay of payments to court psychiatrists to Minister Geens. I've served a few months on that property. I know there are still a lot of problems there. The relationship between, on the one hand, an a priori quality assurance of individual reports, ensuring that the independence of the experts is not affected, versus a more global quality evaluation a posteriori, and, on the other hand, the provisions of the expert review, as laid down in the Judicial Code, will therefore still have to be analysed. This is a difficult balance which is being sought in order to achieve quality assurance a priori and a posteriori, after which the provisions of the expert's research must be considered in terms of their completeness. That is what has been decided, and it will now be possible to monitor it. I assume that one opinion will be a little more detailed than the other, but some essential elements must be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u105	Madam President, Minister, I hear you saying that everything relating to quality assurance is still in preparation. It is indeed important for the quality that a check be carried out, which is not happening today. I can hear you say that this control is not, in fact, appreciated a priori, because of the delay in the course of justice in this matter. I hear you calling for a retrospective check, looking at the uniformity of the report and the quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u106	We must ensure that there is no delay in the course of justice. It was known that there was still a lot of work to be done, otherwise it would never have been said that the law should not be enforceable until 1 January 2016. Something so pressing wouldn't have been postponed by a year if there wasn't much work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u107	I also hear you say that according to the RIZIV the hourly wage still has to be paid through the Justice Department. The fact that it is done according to that standard is not disputed. That is the point: it is now paid on a flat-rate basis through the Justice Department, but the law now states that it should actually be an hourly wage through the RIZIV. However, it is important to consider who will provide for the budget in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u108	There are other charges that the Justice Department says RIZIV has to pay them. There have already been contacts between the Cabinets, but I cannot, of course, sign a blank cheque for all medical care in the penitentiary institutions. I must have a precise description of this and then, of course, it will have to be negotiated between my services and the justice services. There is now an envelope for the Justice Department, but then it will have to be looked at which part it is about, because it is hard for me to pay for everything and leave the envelope there. So it's not as simple as it looks. There will certainly be further work on this. For the time being, the judicial psychiatrists are still being paid by the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u109	I would like to thank you, despite our international reputation for interned people, for being very much engaged in this. The resident: The work that remains to be done needs to be done jointly with the departments of Justice and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u110	I did the same work in the shelter. That is possible, but of course it requires a great effort. In the penitentiary settings, of course, it is much more diverse. It's a problem that we've been carrying around for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u111	To be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u112	Madam Secretary, I will speak first in general about the law on psychotherapy. At the end of the previous legislature, Parliament adopted a draft law regulating the professions in mental health care and amending Royal Decree No. 78 on the implementation of the health professions. The implementation of the law governing the recognition of psychotherapy will be carried out through royal decrees and circular letters. You yourself have recently spoken extensively about mental health in your policy statement. So you will certainly be pleased to further refine the law. I am convinced that the change that was adopted was absolutely necessary and represents an improvement, but everyone knows that there have been major questions in the field, both about training and about the people working in that sector. I would like to ask you the questions that have been put to us by those concerned so that they know what they are going to do in the short and slightly longer term. After all, many details only become clear in the implementing acts and not in the legal text itself. Firstly, by what time do you want the implementing decisions to be completed? Secondly, how will you make the adjustments to the reform of Royal Decree No. Seventy-eight fit? Will the rules on this discipline be changed again? Thirdly, what will the relationship between psychotherapists and psychologists look like in practice? Will there be transitional measures so that current psychological counsellors/psychotherapists can comply with the new rules? Fourthly, do you see a task for the psychological consultants in the first line? If so, which one? Fifth and finally, are there any further extensions in the new law, for example, to recognise sexologists? That is not the case today, so in practice anyone can say that he is a sexologist. That's not done. That is why I am asking you to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u113	Minister, we have resulted in texts recognizing clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues as health professionals and psychotherapists as liberal professions. Developments may differ in terms of whether or not reimbursements are available and access for people who would need them in their care. The first task for you is the establishment of advisory bodies on ethics, oversight and accreditation (from the National Council to the various commissions). What's the timing? How is this set-up planned? How are applications for membership of these bodies raised and how is their selection organised? This is one of the first elements of the law's implementation. I guess that's already going on. On the other hand, the criteria of competence and training for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues are relatively simple since it is sufficient to refer to the existing masters. For psychotherapists, since the possibilities are more varied, competences and criteria will have to be defined by the ad hoc committees. To be recognized as a psychotherapist, regardless of the basic training, there will be additional specific training, even for clinical psychologists wishing to be recognized as a psychotherapist. Are things going well like this? Is it now envisaged to work according to different timings for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues wishing to be recognized as psychotherapists and other persons with other basic training in the categories of health, social and educational work, as defined in the law - to allow them to start further training - and for those who have already attended it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u114	I welcome your answer because you want to refine the law. We have been working on this text for a number of weeks, even years. I remember Mr Mayeur's contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u115	Ten years they've been working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u116	Dozens of years. We're ready. So I am delighted that you want to do so and that you are even putting specific data first. I am also pleased that you will continue to consult with the field of work. It's necessary. There are also very technical questions. It is therefore very wise to consult those involved in the preparation of the implementing decisions. I certainly also want to give the advice to hear the sexologists, because they say it's some kind of training that belongs to psychology. Apparently, they forgot to include them in the law. Mrs. De Block, I have that information from those involved. It is not difficult for you as a competent minister to hear them and find out what is true. I'll give it to you because people in the field are worried about it. That's all I can do; it's my job to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u117	Madam Secretary, my question is about midwife. A number of colleagues recently asked questions about the shortened stay in hospitals after childbirth and its consequences for everyone on the ground and in particular for the midwife. From your replies back then and from the discussion of your policy paper, I have been able to conclude a number of things. For example, the savings in 2015 are purely administrative, especially the matching of the invoice to the effective shelf life. So there will not yet be a cut in the effective days of childbirth. Furthermore, in your view, the feasibility of reducing the number of days lying down seems to still have to be tested through pilot projects. The Knowledge Centre also confirms this. These pilot projects will therefore have to start in 2015, as you confirm in your policy paper that you want to reduce the effective number of days lying down. I assume that you want to start this in 2016, because it will be purely administrative in 2015. There will therefore need to be rapid consultation with all actors in order to develop the various projects. An important actor in the future will certainly be the midwife. They will have to be closely involved in these pilot projects. Madam Secretary, have you received and read the memorandum of the Belgian Midwives Association? Can you agree with their memorandum? They have explained it all to me, because it is quite extensive. One feels that they need recognition of their job, not only of the job itself but also of its financial side. There are four types of midwives, but there is no differentiation in remuneration. Today they earn 20 euros gross per hour. That's a very demotivating job. I am very curious to hear your answer on the matter. They say that the recognition of nurse's professional title is included, but not that of midwife. So again a question of recognition. Where are you on the start of the pilot projects recommended by the Knowledge Centre? What is the time schedule for these projects? Is there a budget for this? Do you have any idea how many midwifes are going to be needed for your plans and are they there yet? What is the estimate of the budget that will be required for the midwife when your plans come into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u118	Yes, I've taken note of the memorandum of the Belgian Midwives Association. Midwife should be better integrated into a multidisciplinary mother and child care network. I also announced this during the discussions. The quality of care provided and the training of midwife should be ensured. As regards the launch of pilot projects, as recommended by the Knowledge Centre in the Caring for mothers and newborns after uncomplicated delivery towards integrated postnatal care, the aim is to develop healthcare networks based on partnerships between the hospital and the first line. This also presupposes a decision by the Inter-Ministerial Conference. If an agreement is reached, models for financing multidisciplinary home care after childbirth will be examined and financed through Article 56 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, or, where appropriate, by redistributing the budget of hospitals. In addition, the Knowledge Centre has already planned a study on the guideline Postpartum care. This study will be completed by the end of 2016. My administration has also submitted to the Knowledge Centre a research proposal on the planning of the offer to midwifes in Belgium, on postnatal care in Belgium and on the realisation of a reduced hospitalisation combined with a quality follow-up at home by competent healthcare professionals. This is in line with what the Belgian Midwives Association asks in its memorandum, namely to map how many midwives there are and how many are needed to provide care should we switch to another system. The Knowledge Centre has responded positively and has included the proposal in the shortlist. In March 2015, the Board of Directors of the Knowledge Centre will determine the final programme of study for 2015. The aim is to get a correct picture of the current range of midwifes: the number of active midwifes, their age, the sector in which they work, whether they are employed full-time or half-time, geographical distribution, etc. It will also examine how many midwifes are needed if the rest is reduced and if a high-quality follow-up is carried out by the midwife in this situation. The results of the study will determine how many midwifes are needed to receive women and children more quickly and better at home after childbirth, and whether there are enough midwifes available on the labour market. So I will not anticipate the questions concerning the necessary budgets. After all, you know that all this is related: how many, of what type, what other primary care, how will they network and so on? As I have already said, it is indeed the intention to invest the budgets that we will have to spend less on hospitals thanks to the reduced length of time, in home care networks and midwifes and men. The study of the Knowledge Centre suggests that it is possible to save while guaranteeing the quality of care. I do not have much illusions about this, knowing that if we want to organise this properly, with the necessary men and women on the ground, it will also have a cost. At least it'll be another way of giving birth. Personally, I have always been in favour of outpatient birth, but that is a step further. Here we go back to the core tasks of the midwifes, being pre- and postnatal care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u119	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As you put forward a number of points in the memorandum, my gut tells me that you take the role of the midwife and men seriously, which is important, and that you want to work on the pilot projects you are referring to. I will question you regularly about the timing of all this. After all, this is something that lives with the population. They have only received the signal that they may stay in the hospital for less time, but wonder what the quality of the follow-up is like. I expect an answer from you in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u120	Madam Minister, my question is based on a new study by the Scientific Institute for Health, at the beginning of December. The study showed that alcohol consumption among young people aged 15-24 is alarmingly high. Twenty percent of young men drink well at least once a week and that means six glasses or more. For young women, almost 10% do so. There is therefore a clear need for a global approach to the problem of alcohol. In the past steps were taken at the Inter-Ministerial Conference for an alcohol plan 2014-2018, but unfortunately that plan was not approved. However, there are a lot of useful action points in it. The FPS Public Health also organised a conference on alcohol and social consequences in September 2014. There the demand for implementation of the alcohol plan was repeated. Everyone agrees on the importance of prevention, quality care and research. The questions we have to answer are about the supply side. Can alcohol be sold during the night, in vending machines, along motorways? Should advertising be restricted? Does the price need to be increased? Can alcohol be aged 16 or 18? Madam Minister, what initiatives are you planning to take in the short term to meet the FPS' demand for a global approach to alcohol issues? Will you transpose certain initiatives in the alcohol plan into legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u121	Madam President, I note that today in committee it is the third question for a plan. Social Affairs and Health together cover a huge area and we have a very ambitious government project to implement reforms. I just want to warn you that I cannot get three more plans for each committee. I am open to everything, but the workload for the committee and for the administration, which has to work with fewer staff, is very large in those domains. If I get questions about three plans in every committee, we'll end up weird. I want to, I don't want to, but I also want to state that we need to know what we're doing. Nevertheless, Mrs Van Hoof, your question is no less justified or more appropriate than other questions. An alcohol plan was worked out by the previous government, but it was not retained by the government because no agreement was found. However, the recent figures from the health surveys do indeed highlight the need for an efficient alcohol policy. Whether or not such a policy should be put into a plan is another question. It is clear that alcohol has harmful effects on health, just like cigarettes and roll tobacco, which we talked about earlier. I have already stated here in committee that we in our country must, above all, have a global alcohol strategy. The World Health Organisation has called on the countries. I support her call. Our strategy must meet certain conditions. Firstly, it must be global and integrated. This means that all the relevant ministers must also take action, cooperate and coordinate their policies. Secondly, the strategy must be balanced. This means that it should include initiatives on demand for alcohol, such as prevention, but also care for people with alcohol problems. In addition, it must put forward measures concerning the supply of alcohol. To the extent that such supply restrictions can demonstrate a reduction in harmful alcohol consumption, I am prepared to enter into the debate on this too. Thirdly, the strategy must have sufficient regard for risk situations, such as alcohol in circulation, the use of alcohol during pregnancy and the use of alcohol by young people, which is becoming increasingly common. The General Cell Drugs Policy and the Inter-Ministerial Conference Drugs are ideal consultative bodies to discuss such issues. I will therefore ask for the alcohol problem to be dealt with as such before the next meeting of the General Cell on Drugs Policy. In reply to your second question, I would also point out that, within my powers, some of the points of action in the draft plan have already been converted into policy actions. I am thinking, for example, of the annual analysis of public spending on our drugs policy, the implementation of the Treatment Demand Indicator in all hospitals, an evaluation of the advertising agreement and the implementation of a liaison function on alcohol in some hospitals. So initiatives have already taken place, apart from the fact that the alcohol plan has been stranded on political sandbanks. It is very useful to continue and, where possible and necessary, to intensify the actions. So I am not talking about a plan for the time being, but about an overall strategy. The most important thing is to work in this area. There is a very active General Cell Drug Policy in the administration and the Inter-Ministerial Conference Drugs has an important role to play in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u122	Madam Minister, alcohol is indeed a hard drug that has been socially accepted. I'm not in favour of a plan either, I prefer actions, everyone's in it, but it's important that those actions get there soon. I myself am ships from Horeca at the longest bar in Belgium, namely in Leuven, and I notice that the catering operators themselves are fed up with coma drinking and binge drinking. They have themselves drawn up an action plan to ask for more respect and to teach young people how to handle alcohol. So there is no need to be afraid that the catering industry would be against such a plan, because in certain cities where young people are studying, it really is running out of steam. It is important that there are actions that are effective on the ground. You will find the necessary support for this. Make no mistake, also the catering operators are tired of picking up customers on the street and getting tried for serving alcohol to minors, while they didn't notice that they were underage. It really runs out of spigates because of the abuse of alcohol. So I certainly support you in concrete and effective actions, which may occasionally intervene in the market. The market itself is asking party; I can testify that as ships of Commerce and Horeca in Leuven, a true hospitality town.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u123	This affects several federal jurisdictions, including the Economy and Health, but also several levels of power. This is where it becomes difficult to organize the various measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u124	Question No 987 by Mr Alain Mathot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u125	Madam Secretary, I have no question about a plan. I have a very short question about the waiting lists in child psychiatry. That's an old one. Every year a number of experts complain about the problem. With the regularity of the clock there is also a case: in December, for example, a father went on hunger strike for his heavily autistic daughter Shauni. There are cases like this. My question is very simple and very brief. How can you respond to this need within the budgetary constraints? Do you foresee measures to ensure that children in need of psychiatric care do not remain in the cold, as do their parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u126	Mrs Dedry, the specific shortage for children and young people with mental and psychiatric problems is a fact that we have been carrying on for a long time and to which attention will rightly be paid during the current legislature. In particular, I will take the needs and needs of children, young people and their context as the starting point. This is in line with the Joint Declaration of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health in 2012. In order to implement the policy statement, I will present a guide for adoption at the first Inter-Ministerial Conference this spring in the course of 2015. The guide should enable a new mental health policy for the previously mentioned target group. For example, I would like to put forward a policy of integration and continuity in the actions of all healthcare actors, which can respond quickly and adequately to the specific needs of a target group, which is always aimed at integration or reintegration, and which is also based on a principle of subsidiarity that should enable young people and children to remain in their own environment for as long as possible. The latter shall not exclude short or long-term residential recordings where they prove necessary. This policy can only be achieved successfully through cooperation at all levels, federal, common and regional. That is why the Inter-Ministerial Conference continues to play an important role in this. In order to give a first start to implementing the new policy, I have made an effort to release EUR 1.2 million in the hospital financial envelope this year. This will be spread over the ten provinces and Brussels in the first half of 2015, so that there will be an important development of coordination functions in mental health care for children. We will recruit twelve highly skilled people this year, preferably before the summer. Those people will coordinate from the hospitals that are working on this as a reference. The awareness of our principles and the integration of all partners are primary. So we will implement that directly on the field. The twelve highly skilled people we recruit for this purpose, who will have a coordinating role, will, of course, start from the information already available. There are already several initiatives in the field, but they are fragmented or have not been put in place where they should be. There is therefore no solution to acute situations. Some think that a child is better off at home, whereas for example, it is no longer workable because the parents or other people who are responsible for the care are no longer able to handle it. In addition, there are waiting lists, the difficulty of being able to record someone acutely, resulting in distressing situations on the field. We have all read this seven hundred thousand times. If people with a coordinating function now know what exists on the ground, they can ensure that the right people find themselves in the right place. Sometimes we hear that a child cannot go to a certain place because it is full. The child can then possibly go to another place, but that may not be the most suitable. In addition, there are sometimes double diagnoses, which we will come back to later. So we want to make a first start, directly bottom-up on the ground. If we let people in the water right away, they have to swim and make sure they all get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u127	Madam Secretary, that certainly looks like a very nice testing ground. If you are talking about a guide that you would like to present to the Inter-Ministerial Conference, do you mean some sort of road map, a manual, or what do you mean more precisely by a guide?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u128	(...) how we can achieve integration and continuity between the different care actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u129	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u130	Madam President, dear colleague, my administration has drawn its first conclusions on the new opinion of the Higher Council of Health on the danger of electromagnetic waves. This opinion, which focuses on the new 4G mobile telephony technology, is addressed first and foremost to the regional authorities responsible for standards for transmitter antennas. Since 2009, the Regions have been responsible not only for spatial planning, but also for public exposure standards. In this respect, the Commission recommends the rapid elimination of old mobile telephone technologies in order to reduce the exposure of the population. At the same time, the Higher Council of Health has updated, as part of an overall assessment plan, scientific studies on the influence of radiofrequency radiation on health and has confirmed its previous recommendations, in particular on the use of mobile phones. Therefore, there is currently no need to adapt my administration's brochures on electromagnetic fields and health. In fact, the opinion covers several areas of competence: the Federal Republic of Germany with regard to product policy, the Regions with regard to transmitters, the Communities with regard to health education, in particular with regard to the part relating to changes in behaviour. Since the implementation of the recommendations of the Higher Council of Health does not focus on the same axis, I do not think coordination is necessary. The publication of the opinion of the Higher Council of Health scientifically justified and clarifying certain technical aspects from a health point of view deserves, in my opinion, to be communicated to the European and international community, what my administration will do, at the first opportunity, in its discussions with the World Health Organisation and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u131	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I am pleased that this issue raises a great deal of interest in your leadership. In conclusion, this problem is very challenging in relation to our children. Although everything is shared among the different entities, I think it is really important that you pay attention to this essential health problem for our children and for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u132	Madam President, Minister, in December 2014, I had the opportunity to hold a conference with Les Femmes Réformatrices on female genetic mutilation (FGM). The figures mentioned by an association that we had invited as well as by a person who had undergone such mutilation are most worrying. In fact, more than 125 million girls and women have been subjected to excision, while nearly 30 million more girls are at risk of being subjected to excision in the coming years. With regard to Belgium, a recent study commissioned by the Public Health FPS estimated that in 2012, more than 13,000 women had been excised. Since then, the numbers have doubled. This is a very sad development. Associations advocate awareness and information campaigns among communities at risk. They are also trying to raise awareness in the professional world. I have also had the opportunity to question your colleague from the Department of Justice in this regard. I wanted to ask you the same questions today, but in terms of public health. The aim is to see how medical and social professionals could play a crucial role in preventing the phenomenon of FGM. In order to stem this phenomenon and, above all, to improve the detection of female genital mutilation, how do you intend to raise public awareness? Are you going to designate referrals within the medical-social community? I know that the federated entities have launched new awareness campaigns, but the federal government could continue to work in this direction. It would also be useful to include this topic in the midwifery curriculum. I think my questions are in line with the ambition of the government and of all parliamentarians to promote the universality of human rights – with a capital H, of course – and those of women, as a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u133	Mr.Foret, in accordance with the National Action Plan to Combat Violence Between Partners and Other Forms of Domestic Violence 2010-2014, approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference Integration into Society of 23 November 2010, the Public Health FPS must ensure that the facts of female genital mutilation are recorded by professionals facing the problem: routine registration of cases detected with doctors, gynaecologists, paediatricians, midwives. At the level of public health in Belgium, the maternity wards of hospitals were made aware in 2010-2011 of the problem of female genital mutilation. This awareness was made possible by means of an information leaflet addressed to doctors and midwives in maternity wards. This leaflet, developed by the Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilation (GAMS), provided the opportunity for relevant staff members to undergo training. This project was sponsored by the Public Health FPS. Information and training sessions on the professional categories concerned (nurses, midwives, gynaecologists) in a sample of hospitals have therefore been organized in recent years, with the aim of having different people in hospitals who could act as relays on the problem of female genital mutilation. This project should also be continued in the coming years by extending it to other hospitals, but also taking into account budgetary constraints. As regards the possibility of including training in the basic curriculum, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this falls within the competence of higher education, which is currently a Community subject. I would add that when I was Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, we also raised awareness of reception centres, which are on the front line, doctors, people of trust, staff. In this regard, we have worked with GAMS and this ongoing collaboration. It must be said that there is an important migratory flow. It can be seen that people who have been protected here and who have been granted refugee status because of facts that have occurred in their country of origin are subjected to a very strong social pressure that sometimes prevents them from being victims of these acts; this is the case even for their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u134	Minister, thank you for your answers. I know we've made a lot of effort. As part of the new national plan to combat violence between partners, I am confident that this phenomenon will be a priority. I hope that the federated entities and the federal government will be able to work in a multidisciplinary manner in the same direction. I'm sure you'll be sensitive to it. We will have the opportunity to come back to it through awareness-raising campaigns. I am thinking in particular of airports because people who return to their country of origin and who may be subjected to genital mutilation can then be raised. It is important to fight this taboo and to improve detection and prevention. The Minister of Justice recalled that there had not yet been any convictions in this regard. This is challenging because this phenomenon is taboo and not detectable. It is necessary to be able to fight at different levels of power and in different disciplines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u135	Madam Minister, at the end of your meeting with Minister Marcourt in December, it is obviously with pleasure and relief for all the students in the final year of medicine and dentistry concerned that we learned of your willingness to issue them an INAMI number at the end of this academic year. You have made this decision a requirement. That is, the Government of the French Community would wear a "strong gesture" so that such a measure would no longer be necessary in the future. The Minister of Higher Education Marcourt assured you that he would examine all possible solutions. Has he made a firm commitment to this? Otherwise, if his initiatives do not meet your expectations, what are you going to do for this and subsequent years? No later than yesterday, I heard the minister say that he would propose an entry examination. However, the rector of a French-speaking university replied that he did not want to. We see that this choice is not unanimous in the academic world. I wish I'd heard from you about that. Second, the minister had set a condition for the opening of a full cadastre from the federal government. Can you tell me what's going on? Medical and dentistry students follow this file with great interest. Finally, could you change the INAMI number quota based on the full cadastre you are about to receive or are you considering further measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u136	Madam Minister, it is a little late in the evening for the dossier that I wish to raise, but I am afraid that we will often meet here until late in the evening on that dossier. I would like to join most of my colleague who has just asked her questions. On 8 January I read an article in La Libre, which more or less showed that Marcourt had understood your message, at least that he had to do something. However, I do not know whether he has really understood that the influx needs to be dealt with structurally and also from the beginning. He talks about consultation with the students and the various actors in the sector, including the universities. As my colleague has rightly pointed out, there is already a communication from the Naamse Universiteit, which does not see fit to take an entrance exam before the first year. So the Namur University thinks more of a filter after the first year, if it really has to. You are quite right to say that in 2015 a lot less students will have to start the training, because otherwise we are always extending the problem for us and nobody is waiting for it. The National Council of the Order of Doctors also advises a generalisation of the entrance examination and no selection in the course of the studies. In my view, it is no secret that our group doubts Mr Marcourt's willingness to do so. That is why I keep following that file closely and continue to harass you with questions, Madam Secretary. I apologise for that, but I do have a few questions for you again, because I want to hear them clearly from you. Madam Minister, if a filter is chosen in the course of or at the end of the first academic year, can that be enough for you in any way? In other words, what is the exact framework in which this filter can be worked out and what will it be tested for? My second question has already been raised in plenary. If Minister Marcort continues to refuse to introduce a full entrance examination, what exactly will that have? What will you do? Will we really have a stick behind the door?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u137	Madam Minister, thank you. As usual, it's clear, clear and precise, which I appreciate. I hope the French Community will hear from you. I sat there for five years and was a member of the Higher Education Commission. We told Minister Marcourt that we had to make decisions. They weren't taken. But ultimately, it is the students and their parents who are taken hostage by irresponsible decisions. I think you've taken an important step to ensure that these students and their parents are not imprisoned and that they do not end up with so many studies without a doctor's degree. But at the level of communication, it is not very clear for students, their parents and for universities. I think that this position will still have to be hammered out if difficult decisions are not to be taken later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u138	I received successively the students, the deans on both sides and the doctors' unions. After the compromise, they were received at my house. There is no doubt that they have understood well. But the responsibility, which is immense, remains with the French-speaking federated entities. There's no doubt. As you say, it's clear and correct. And it's either take it or leave it. But it's a huge responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u139	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. We may be repeating ourselves, but I think I will make that clear to you a few more times in the future. Apparently, that's necessary. After all, it is felt that this message has not always come across clearly on the other side of the language border. I agree with my colleague, who also made this point. I'm glad to hear you keep putting the responsibility where it is. You leave some freedom in the way the solution is worked out. That is also logical, but I have read in the newspaper that you make the clear condition that the measure should be applied at the beginning of the academic year and not at the end. I see you nodding. I think that is an important nuance, which I wanted to highlight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u140	That's in the interests of the students. If a measure is taken in the middle of the academic year, which is effective, then perhaps only a third or a half will be able to proceed. All the other students will lose their credits. Then they must reorient themselves. Where else can they go? They've lost a whole academic year. I don't want to risk that. That's in the interests of the students and the parents. With the BaMa system, some students spend three, four or five years at university and they don't get a bachelor's degree because they lose too many points along the way. That's something new that students and parents have to learn to live with. If you invest four or five years in a student, you also want to see a diploma. They'll lose their credits, whatever the arrangement is. The BaMa system is a European system. If one does not succeed in one direction, one loses one's credits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u141	Madam Secretary, we are following your compromise proposal to allow the internship to last a while longer. One then works with some kind of payoff. We continue to support you in this. That is not only for the benefit of all students, on both sides of the language border, as you rightly say. It is also important that this is to the benefit of the quality of care. We will continue to monitor the problem with you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u142	Mrs Grovonius, it is incorrect to say that there is no information on the subject on the FPS Public Health website! The Act of 13 August 1990 establishes a committee to evaluate the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy under the authority of the parliament. But the Public Health FPS was appointed by this Act to serve as the secretariat of this commission. As a result, the documents concerning this commission are on the FPS Public Health website, whose address I will give you. On the other hand, it is correct to say that the information made available remains relatively formal. It concerns the legislation in force, the obligations relating to providers of care and the biennial reports submitted to Parliament pursuant to the Act of 13 August 1990. However, since the commission is under the authority of the parliament, it must report to it every two years, in particular on statistical data, the annual reports drawn up by the institutions which carry out the interventions and a summary of the information which the information services of these institutions have transmitted to the commission. The Committee may also make recommendations which may amend legislation with a view to reducing the number of terminations of pregnancy and/or improving the guidance and reception of women in distress. Parliament is responsible for organising a debate on the recommendations made. This debate could therefore be an opportunity for Parliament to make possible additional requests to the committee, in particular in terms of information to be disseminated on the FPS Public Health website for the benefit of citizens. I can tell you where to find the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u143	Madam Minister, it is true that when we type the word "abortion" on the site, we find the reports but we do not have more precise information. If a woman is in a difficult situation, if she asks questions, if she is looking for information about a family planning centre, etc., she cannot find it on this site. However, this site is extremely well referenced. In all likelihood, it is also a sign of seriousness. It would therefore seem to me appropriate to find this information there. In what form? Any specific links or information addressed? I hear we can discuss this, but I do not understand why you cannot take the initiative and why we need to debate this issue. I am therefore sorry that you cannot, as a minister, consider that this element is important enough to take the initiative to move forward on this issue and to put the information on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u144	Ma'am, it's not up to me to decide, but I can find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u145	And maybe come back? There is a difference between providing information on the different places where it is possible to abort and publishing links to specific organisations. If one is noted, all of them must be noted (plannings, hospitals, doctor, etc.).). See how to react. Madam, it would be better to come back to your question and give the minister time to take her information to indicate what she can do or suggest to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u146	Madam President, Madam Minister, it is a sunny subject but not an uplifting one. Since 1 January 2015, solar banks have been banned in Australia. This makes it the second country in the world to ban solariums after Brazil. The reason is the towering figures for skin cancer in the country: two out of three Australians face the disease before their 70th. In Belgium, too, the number of cases is increasing, and we have 143 on an annual basis as a result of solar banks. In Belgium, the Foundation has been fighting against cancer for several years for stricter controls and compliance with the legislation on the use of solariums. In our country, too, the number of new cases of skin cancer is increasing every year. International studies show that there is a clear link between skin cancer and the use of solariums. Figures from the FPS also indicate that only 7.5 % were in order at 94 controlled centres. There are four thousand solar banks in Belgium, all of which cannot be visited. Measures are therefore insisting, because solariums are unhealthy anyway, there is no healthy solarium. Do you think that the public is sufficiently informed about the risks of visiting the solarium? There is a leaflet from the FOD that gives the ten commandments for a solar cult, but it must be said that it is unhealthy, whether there are ten commandments or not: it is unhealthy. Can you confirm with figures that there is a causal link between skin cancer and the use of solariums? Do you think it would be useful, in consultation with the Community ministers, to take action to discourage the use of solariums? Will you launch additional campaigns or actions in this area? What are your views on the Foundation's question against Cancer for compulsory registration? A better control would already be a start, since the hairdresser or fitness centre is now also home to sunbeds. What are your views on more and more stringent checks on compliance with the law and a ban on misleading advertising?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u147	Mrs Van Hoof, the relationship between solar banks and solar exposure in general, on the one hand, and skin cancer, on the other hand, has been demonstrated in the scientific literature. Although we're not at the same latitude as Australia, we don't have to be grieved about that, all the geographical locations have their good and bad side here indeed we have a problem. The International Agency for Research on Cancer, WHO's cancer research centre, already classified solariums in 2009 as carcinogenic for people in the highest risk category, i.e. for people with sensitive skin. People who use a solarium have a 15% increased risk of melanoma. If a solarium is used for the age of 30 years, the risk of melanoma increases by 75%. As early as 2000, the High Health Council gave an opinion on the risks associated with the use of solariums. This opinion is currently being updated and will also be available in the course of this year. In fact, adequate control and information on risk derivatives is very important. Hence the actions already taken with the ten commandments. Prevention is also necessary, of course, but that is the competence of the Communities. As far as the control, regulation and conditions for the operation of solar power stations are concerned, I should like to point out that these, as well as consumer information, are within the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. You won't be unaware of that. In general we should also know that people in Belgium not only have sunbeds, but that they also go more to the sun. They used to travel once a year. It is a accumulation of the number of hours in which the skin is exposed to the sun. Hence in Australia and Brazil even melanomas are found behind the ears of the people and in the neck. Those are areas that are not so frequently exposed to the sun, but they do. However, it is generally about adding up the exposure of the skin to all types of sun rays, from sunbeds as well as in the garden and on holiday to the sun, without protection. It is the accumulation of the number of hours of sunshine that is important for the skin. For children there are already measures with special patches, sunglasses and so on. However, we must not only protect children. One really has to deal with it responsibly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u148	I understand I have to ask Minister Peeters the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u149	Only as far as control is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u150	That's important. I'll certainly do that. It is important, because people are not sufficiently sensitised. The shock effect of the ban in Australia has more impact than the advertising so far. It is therefore important, especially for the age group up to 35 years, which is more sensitive to sunbeds than older people. Young people are not aware of this at the moment. They want a nice tan or prepare for the sun. It is thought that it is healthier to leave for the sun in this way and so one already wants to prepare the skin a bit, while nothing is more unhealthy than that. A great deal of awareness-raising work is therefore needed in order to advise against the use of solar banks. That would be best.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u151	Madam Minister, last week, the negative effects of the cooperation and specialisation of hospitals were repeated in the media, this time with regard to the competition between the hospitals caused by this. A number of aspects have already been highlighted in the work programme. Madam Secretary, have you planned an analysis of the current capacity of acute beds? When can we expect the first results? Is this part of the roadmap, in the translation of the KCE report that we can expect? Or is this separate from that? In concrete terms, about unfair competition practices: are they registered or identified in a particular way? Is there any concrete action to be taken on this? The previous government has encouraged such a situation. For example, a provision in a programme law created a ruling for hospitals that could therefore exploit unapproved PET devices. We would like to know what policy you intend to pursue in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u152	Madam President, Minister, it has already been referred to: De Standaard has published an opinion contribution in which a hospital director, a deputy director and a chairman say that competition is very strong in the sector. I can also speak with that myself from Antwerp, where there are some large hospitals and where it seems impossible to work together and make arrangements, which means that the same devices are located in different locations, which do not work optimally or efficiently. The reason is the way hospitals are financed. I think it is not only the way hospitals are financed, but also the doctors. Apparently, it's hard for hospitals to stay out of the red numbers. Market thinking is gaining ground. In concrete terms, this means that some hospitals refer their patients to a hospital on the other side of the country, where patients pass through a hospital where they can be treated equally well. Fortunately, the federal government agreement indicates that a new funding system will be put in place for hospitals and a restructuring of the hospital landscape. You want to concentrate the complex care. I think that is one of the first political statements you have made on this subject in your current capacity. You want hospitals to specialize and work together. A better division of labour can also be useful for less complex care. You said in November that you were going to start a discussion on this issue. I have a number of questions to ask. Do you confirm the misgrowth in hospital structures, as outlined in the article? Would you like to explore, in consultation with your regional colleagues, what you can do about the programming of hospital beds, but also about certain expensive appliances? About the purchase of appliances, I would like to say that we still have a lot of male doctors who are going to choose the devices. What we may experience when purchasing kitchen appliances, they want to use these devices: they want all possible options and buttons. If one then investigates the use of appliances after three to four years, one finds that the same buttons are always used and that the horns and bells that one wanted, and which often cost a lot of money, are not actually used. It is also important to know which actors you want to involve in the working groups and processes. When are they gonna get involved? When will the committee be involved? I'd even like to do something about that. Work positively, just to be clear. After all, I know and realize that you will end up in a minefield. The conflicting interests, including financial and competition, are great: it will not be evident to make choices. So I want to know the timing. The coalition agreement states that a task force will submit a final report by the end of 2017. Can you tell me what the main principles of this task force are, when it will start to work and, above all, when it will deliver? I know from experience that the introduction of an end date is not insignificant, because then the report must be ready; otherwise you will decide on that end date. Fourthly, you talk mainly about financing and specialization. Will you also include regional partnerships between hospitals that go wider than specialist care in that story? Are you also aiming for logical geographical hospital associations and job appointments? I would like to say that mobility issues also play a role in this. If children are to be treated against cancer, then, of course, they should go to a hospital that has a lot of experience in that treatment, but it is not so obvious to drive back and forth every day for a treatment, either as a child patient or as a parent, when they have to drive 100 kilometres away, while there may also be opportunities nearby, but they do not present themselves because the hospitals there do not work together for competition reasons. The policy you want to develop in this respect will have to be focused on both the finances and the patients. I have the unfortunate experience that the patient is sometimes the last person to be thought of in this sector. I can imagine that with your background, you think patients are important enough to put them forward as a finality, as a starting point to explore how health care can be organised efficiently and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u153	The opinion piece in De Standaard by Professor Nys and Koen Michiels has indeed stirred up a lot of dust. Mrs De Coninck, you have seen a lot of mergers and mergers in Antwerp. So what they say is not new. The image they create is not new. Unfortunately, it's not a single case. The evolution of fragmentation in the hospital landscape has been going on for years. That is also one of the reasons why the coalition agreement now calls for networking and stepped-up concern. It is not the first time that such a provision has been included in the coalition agreement. In 1999 she was also in a coalition agreement. Frank Vandenbroucke worked hard on it back then. However, this has not been able to solve all the problems, even because a four-year policy period was not enough and then he left for other places and other governments. The way hospitals are financed today can certainly fuel the struggle between hospitals. That is why the government agreement clearly states that, during the current legislature, we must also work on reforming hospital funding. Funding should provide the right incentives to ensure that hospitals work together or form networks. It has already been pointed out by Mrs Van Camp that the recognition policy of the Länder also plays a crucial role in reducing the competition between hospitals. Cooperation and tasks should also be encouraged through recognition. In addition, the Länder are a key partner to extend networking to primary health care. That hospital funding is indeed a huge yard. You were talking about a hornet's nest. We began consultations with those concerned in December. In a first round we consulted the hospital domes and a number of stakeholders, such as Zorgnet. A second round will take place next week, namely with the sickness funds. After that, the medical syndicates will follow again. We have already met them on other issues, such as the Medicomut and the students. Other interested parties will then be involved, as people will also have to be involved at the level of the Regions. In parallel, we are considering the formation of the task force. What's it supposed to look like? I do not want a mass, like at the time the large pension conference with 300 participants, when an elephant gave birth to a mouse. That's not the point. The aim is to involve the members of the Task Force thematically and to produce results. If there are three hundred, there will be no results. As I said to the President during the discussion, we want a methodology and a chronology for consultation by the end of March. There is also a need for an action plan setting out how to further study the issue of debt securities. The Knowledge Centre has created a roadmap. It is prepared to present it to the committee as an introduction, as an appetizer. If we then have a plan of action, I will come to the committee with the chronology and the methodology. We want to include a number of milestones in the plan, so that we can indicate when we want to achieve what objectives. This will be discussed throughout the legislative period, but at certain times we need to take certain initiatives. No in-depth thematic analyses have yet been launched, but with regard to the capacity utilisation of the acute beds, Mrs Van Camp, it is necessary to consider how to identify any excess capacity. It is also necessary to consider whether there is an issue of capacity reduction or whether there are too few beds in certain places. I am thinking, for example, of psychiatric and palliative beds or former nursing beds. If there is to be a change in this area, it will have to be dealt with through overcapacity. In the field of heavy medical equipment, of course, there is the plan Medical Imaging of my predecessor. There has also been a list of heavy medical equipment since August 2014. The legislation requires the consent of the competent State Minister before an apparatus appearing on that list can be installed. The development of a register of heavy medical equipment is crucial in order to be able to implement enforcement policies in this area. Of course, we still have federal control over the reimbursement of the performance of the heavy equipment. That's an important stick behind the door. One can, as you say, install too many machines with many horns and bells, but then it is up to us to control the refund. The measures should help contain further excess and unwanted spread in the field of medical imaging. A concentration of expertise and resources is important, not only in operating techniques and services, but also in expensive medical equipment. I would also like to stress that, as a federal minister, I can only pursue an effective policy of concentration and cooperation if my fellow Members from the Länder follow a similar view. Mrs De Coninck, you correctly state that our goal is to develop a more efficient healthcare landscape for the patient. Now we are indeed seeing more cooperation. When I hear that there is a collaboration between Kortrijk and Leuven, I imagine the patient who is referred to Leuven in Kortrijk. It is then actually almost a day on the road to undergo an examination or an additional treatment. Especially for the networks, we need to look at the patient's comfort, but also at the question of where the patient will receive the best treatment. From the study of the Knowledge Centre we know that for certain conditions it is better to refer to specialised centres, centres of excellence, such as breast clinics and oncology treatment centres. Of course, it is not intended to create a few slobbers of hospitals. Nothing precludes a smaller hospital from developing enormous expertise. I'm thinking about Melsbroek, for example. Melsbroek is a small hospital, but there is no discussion about the expertise in the treatment of MS. So we will have to look at that, bottom-up, from the ground up. Will that be easy? I don't think so. You say it's a hornet's nest. I've understood that a long time ago. However, it is very important for the future of patients' treatments and for the affordability of our health care. Perhaps it can be done now, given that half of our hospitals are already in financial difficulties. People do realize that it cannot go on like this. So perhaps one will have the willingness to cooperate more. We will have to insist that they consult each other. I don't have to tell you that, Mrs. De Coninck. It's a matter of will. The proverb says: "If the need is greatest, the rescue is near the coast, but you know that the status of workers and servants was also discussed for a long time. This was an urgent matter in 1999, but it took until 2012-2013 to find a solution. I continue to stress that we have reached the point of no return in this legislature. In order to continue to finance our hospitals and to organise our care adequately for the patient, measures are required. Measures must be taken as a matter of urgency. This committee will be very closely involved. It is logical that it is first at the Knowledge Centre, after which we can follow a plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u154	We are waiting for confirmation, but the KCE will normally come before the committee on 27 January. We will agree on a date to hear from you at the end of March about the plan you want to propose. Eventually, other actors will be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u155	The answer was clear, Madam Secretary. That is why I wanted to ask the question now, because it is topical and the agreements have just been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u156	Madam Minister, it is important to detect the most important items or bottlenecks in the methodology. There is already quite something about that. I'm free to give you some good advice. You'll have to find the balance. There are several items. What one wins at one, one has to admit to the other. It is therefore important to define the minimum, maximum and margin for the different items. Once that exercise is made, one can see what can be weighed against each other. So everyone will lose something, but also win something. This will be the challenge, particularly in view of the current budgetary constraints. I've been very disturbed in the sector by the many cowboys. Many responsible people in the sector do what they want, without taking into account the legislation, because everything is then regulated. That is a disgrace to those who respectfully and morally respectfully deal with a number of things, who clean up, who want to work together, but who are in fact constantly getting the lid on by those who rely on purely free market thinking. However, medicine and the health sector are paid almost entirely with taxpayers' money from all of us. Many people forget that permanently. I've merged eight hospitals myself. That was not an easy exercise, but what really disturbed me was that we wanted to work more efficiently and effectively and that we were financially sanctioned for it. Such a logic cannot be justified. When it comes to working together and repairing, to end up spending less resources, you should try to financially reward the people who do that effectively. I think you'll be able to get very far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u157	I agree with your final remark. Those who install places, beds and equipment and think that it will then be regularized should be targeted rather than rewarded. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic052x.u158	Question No 1167 by Mr Stefaan Vercamer is transformed into a written question. Questions No 1185 of myself, No 1186 of Mrs Len Dierick, No 1199 of Mr André Frédéric and No 1215 of Mr Daniel Senesael are postponed.
