ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u1	Madam Secretary, a very interesting report on hormone disruptors was shown on Dutch television. In case you haven't seen them, it's highly recommended. What struck me, among other things, is that the government in the Netherlands itself provides information about hormone-distorting substances to pregnant women. As far as I know, this is not happening in Belgium. There is an excellent brochure from the Family Association, but in the Netherlands it is better developed and the government takes on a role. Couldn't the information also be provided by the government in our country? The exposure of pregnant women to, among other things, bisphenol A is a danger to public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u2	Mrs Dedry, the investigation into substances suspected of having a hormone-distorting effect is in full swing. Belgium, like France, also wants Europe to establish criteria to identify hormone disruptors, so that there are no 28 different systems in the European Union. The European Commission has still not done so, despite promises and repeated pressure from, among other things, our country. We are not waiting for that. As usual, Belgium is also very active at European level to identify hormone disruptors and protect the population from their harmful effects. After all, there are still European instruments, such as the REACH Regulation, the Biocidal Products Regulation, the Food Contact Materials Regulation and food packaging rules. Belgium is in an expert panel that restricts the use of identified endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC). This is done under the REACH Regulation and the Biocidal Products Regulation. As far as your question on health information, health information and health prevention is concerned, I must refer you to my fellow Members of the European Communities. They have the leading role in this respect. I will also forward your questions and my answer to the fellow Members of the Communities. I think that we should get our hands on the team together in order to achieve a good result. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for that clear answer. It is, of course, always annoying when reference is made to the powers of the Communities. It is another thing that is actually a shared competence and certainly not just a competence of the Communities. In that respect, you seem to agree with me. I'll ask you again in a few months about the follow-up to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u4	Mrs. Dedry, I'll send you an accompanying letter. I suppose this will be picked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, in recent years various campaigns have been carried out to raise the awareness of the Belgian population of the harmful effects of medical imaging. Under the previous legislature, various measures were also taken to reduce the exposure of patients to radiation. Thus, an increase in the number of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) devices (MRI) was planned in 2015 at 7 in Flanders and 5 in Wallonia. These are in addition to the 109 approved MRI devices in place to avoid scanning tests, in the event that magnetic resonance is more appropriate. The replacement of scanners with MRI examinations is also financially neutral thanks to the principle of communicating vases. Another measure involving PET-scans (examining by injection of a slightly radioactive product into the body) has also almost doubled their number from 2016 onwards, from 13 to 24, including 4 additional ones in Wallonia, 1 in Brussels and 6 in Flanders. Minister, according to experts, an additional 230,000 MRI examinations per year require the installation of an additional 33 MRI devices over a four-year period. Twelve are already in the process of being so. I'll let you do the math. Is a possible extension of this measure envisaged? Have any evaluations, particularly budgetary ones, already been carried out in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u6	Minister, I will not go back to the history of this issue. From the outset, we knew that this was a first phase in the implementation of resonances, that this represents an important issue in the quality of care, including the reduction of all ionizing rays, since the challenge is to transfer a number of scanners to resonance. Scanners are highly ionizing; on the contrary, resonance does not have the same type of deleterious effect at all. Today, in view of the calls made in the regions, a whole series of hospitals, at the level of their radiology service, have submitted a request which could not be met, given the number of resonances fixed. It seems to me, therefore, an important issue to be able to start a second phase of expansion in this programme. In this regard, can you already move on to a timetable? A lot of contacts were made with the radiologists' representations, as it was a scanner-to-resonance transfer agreement. Nevertheless, it would be wise to move quickly to the benefit first and foremost of the patient and with equal cost to INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Memorandum of Understanding, a quarterly evaluation will be organised in parallel with the extension of 12 additional MRI devices to verify that budgetary neutrality is respected, in accordance with Articles 17 and 17a of the health benefits nomenclature. This evaluation will be carried out within the BELMIP (Belgian Medical Imaging Platform). This platform is composed of several authorities including FPS Public Health – Food Chain Safety and Environment, INAMI, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and industry experts. This evaluation will be reported to the respective authorities. Expenditures recorded for the first quarter of 2015 will in principle be available from the beginning of July 2015. However, these expenditures will largely include expenditures related to benefits incurred prior to January 1, 2015. For an analysis of the performance, more or less accounting is required. In principle, a first analysis can be carried out from October on the basis of the data recorded in the first six months of 2015. However, this depends on the timing of the implementation of the new MRI devices. The first extension of MRI programming (twelve additional devices) began on 1 January and can last until the end of 2016. To date, the Public Health FPS has not received any notification from the Communities and Regions regarding approvals for new MRI devices. In the meantime, expenditure will of course be monitored at the level of INAMI. The Memorandum of Understanding also mentions budgetary neutrality after the 12th aircraft was installed, as a condition for programming an additional tranche of aircraft in the following years. From the point of view of public health, I agree with you that this exercise should be extended. However, I find it important that the conditions under which this agreement has been implemented are also respected. I'm waiting for the October evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You have at least the merit of being clear about the state of the place and the prudence. You also draw attention to the fact that, in the field, in front-line hospitals also in rural areas, there is a demand for this kind of tool for patients to be treated in better conditions. We will therefore be extremely attentive to this evaluation that you have in October, while saying that the phase of the twelve additional MRI devices began in January for a period up to the end of 2016. In view of this schedule, I imagine that we would have a final evaluation and projections for new programming in the second half of 2016. Is that what I need to understand, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u9	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree that the agreement holds well in a scanner-to-resonance transfer with the objective of budgetary neutrality but, by definition, it is also like this that we will have a qualitative added value for the patient. If it's to do scanners and resonances, we won't gain anything from ionizing radiation. Minister, we must not wait too long. Middle or late 2016 seems far away, the time that the twelve new MRI devices can enter their numbers and testify to this transfer scanner to resonance. Beyond that, I allow myself a reflection, Madam Minister. Consideration should be given to the rapid release of resonances from heavy equipment. Today, in view of the scientific evidence and always working with this agreement on how to use resonance instead of the scanner in the indications that deserve it, I believe that removing resonances from heavy equipment and, therefore, programming, as they are done, would be an important step forward for all patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u12	Minister, on January 13, I asked you about the implementation of clinical psychology, clinical orthopedagogy and psychotherapy. You told us that the clinical psychology and orthopedagogy boards would be put in place in the first half of 2015. These are the simplest and only a master's degree can be recognized in this profession. For the psychotherapy board, you didn't have a deadline. It seems necessary to be able to set up the three councils. The one concerning psychotherapy is more complicated because it is necessary to determine the competences, the approved centres and identify the associations representative of the different psychotherapeutic currents that we recognized in the Act of February 2014. Minister, what is the status of the agendas and work on the three councils that need to be formed? The law comes into force on 1 September 2016 and by then the various decrees must be implemented. Furthermore, I would have liked to have information on the progress of work on the criteria that will be or have been identified to recognise representative associations. Has a call for applications been launched? What is the timing for further work? Actors on the ground are worried and wonder. There have been consultations and meetings between your firm and associations. At these meetings, were the different therapeutic currents represented? Francophone and Dutch-speaking platforms have been established. Are they your interlocutors or do you work differently? There are also discussions about the fact that psychotherapies are not included in Royal Decree 78. Under the previous legislature, we had recognized them in the liberal professions. Does this complicate the work you need to do? Are amendments to the 2014 Act being considered at this time? If so, which ones? Finally, before going to Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to point out that, under the former legislature, important work had been put in place in collaboration with parliamentarians from the various political groups, representatives of the various federations and associations, universities and training centres. It is, in my view, this work that has made it possible to make progress in this area. Minister, is it your intention to continue this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u13	Madam Chair, Minister, I have an excellent memory of the legislation regulating the mental health professions. Indeed, we have done quite original work in that we have worked with parliamentarians. You will recall that at the time I had organised a consultation of the political groups and that we had worked together to develop a legal framework. I also worked with my colleagues in Parliament on a meeting and negotiation with the various speakers. The work was not simple. I note that Mrs Muylle remembers that. Indeed, different schools met each other. It has not always been easy for psychiatrists and psychologists to get along. The agreement between the representatives of the various schools of psychology was not always obvious either. In doing so, parliamentarians and ministers have sometimes been called upon to attend rather "interesting" verbal games. In any case, we have seen that parliamentarians are not the only ones who sometimes tickle. Differences in views also emerged between Francophones and Dutch speakers. In short, it can be said that this issue was difficult and that it required concessions on both sides. But we reached an agreement and the bill was passed by a large majority, although I think I remember that the Vlaams Belang voted against it. Madam Minister, if I have come back to the facts, it is for you to know that it is through negotiations with the actors on the ground that we have been able to vote on the bill that is under discussion and that the legislation in force is now considered by a number of neighbouring countries to be a reference law. This will certainly enable a framework such as ours to be set up in other countries. As Ms Gerkens said, in order to implement the law, there was a need to continue the dialogue in three councils: the Federal Council for Clinical Psychology, the Council for Psychotherapy and the Supreme Council for Mental Health. I would like to know where we are in the process of establishing these councils, if we are to meet the deadline of 1 September next. And I was wondering if it would not be good for the various decisions on options and issues to continue working together with the commission. This, of course, should not delay the work and prevent the application of the law on 1 September. At the time, we worked in the committee and in my office, which allowed us to build bridges between ourselves. I was wondering if it would be possible to continue with this method of work. But the main question of course concerns the fulfilment of this deadline of 1 September, because there are many expectations on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u14	Mrs Onkelinx, even today, consultations are taking place with all the stakeholders at the firm level, in parallel, of course, with the administration. We have regularly had several contacts with the various associations representing these professions in order to move forward, of course, towards the installation of these councils, which is very much expected in the field. Vlaamse Vereniging van Orthopedagogen filed an application for annulment with the Constitutional Court. These include a description of the skills of orthopedagogues and the composition of the Federal Council for Clinical Psychology and Clinical Orthopedagogy. Finally, my strategic cell took the initiative to reach an agreement with this association. Indeed, we know that an application for annulment to the Constitutional Court would not help us move forward. Annulment of certain provisions of the Act would seriously complicate its implementation. So we were able to reach a consensus. As far as psychotherapists are concerned, it is regrettable that they are not included in Royal Decree No. 78 - we all know how this happened - but in a separate law. This issue is currently the subject of a thorough and concerted analysis by my firm's advisors. It is a question of how we can move forward in parallel with the 1978 law. With regard to reimbursements, a study was commissioned from kenniscentrum. This report will allow us to discuss the substance. In the meantime, the law of April 4, 2016, which entered into force on September 1, 2016, will have to be enforced. We are making every effort to achieve this. Meetings are still scheduled for tomorrow. We want to make progress during the holidays and try everything to meet the legal deadline of 1 September 2016. Of course, we are also discussing the repayment arrangements in parallel, as provided for in the agreement. In any case, the most important thing is that the councils be installed, so that the law can come into force on that date. I say this to those who are impatient, which I fully understand: the planned date has not been set at random. We knew that there were still many knots to be untangled. We also knew that there was still a need to discuss many modalities. But we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Do I have to infer from this that you do not intend, by September 2016, to amend the elements of the law in these different components? Moreover, this means that the three councils will be operational before the end of 2015 so that they have the opportunity to work so that the law can apply in September. Once in place, they still have to do everything, determine criteria, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u16	That is why we want to move forward as quickly as possible by avoiding an application to the Constitutional Court, because it could stop us for six or eight months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u17	Minister, I am not aware of the arguments put forward in the motion for annulment. I don't know if it's serious or not. It was this legislation, because it is the provisions that are contained in the 1978 Order. It was the Muylle law and it is on this point that there is a request for annulment. However, since I do not know the reason for the request, I do not know whether the grounds are serious and whether we risk annulment or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u18	Anyway, we talked to them...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u19	I suppose that does not call into question the philosophy developed in that law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u20	No, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u21	Then there is the second law, out of order 1978. You say you have decided to work in such a way and to continue in this way. You will put the advice in place and in parallel, review the repayment modalities. I would point out that in terms of repayment terms, we are limited from a budgetary point of view, unless you release margins, minister! But I remember that considering the reimbursement of goal blanks for all psychotherapy sessions is not so simple. On the other hand, we had imagined, for psychologists, the possibility of reimbursement in the context of journeys of care, very structured with doctors-generalists, in the framework of pilot projects, allowing to decide on the sustainability of this kind of practice. That's for information, but you certainly know that. You didn't answer my last request. If you intend to make adjustments, could you come here and talk about it? We would thus continue our government-Parliament work around such a law. Like you, I'm sure, we're being approached by all the groups. And I learned there were a lot of them. Therefore, rather than constantly calling on you, as long as we know the evolution and know a little how this is going, so as to reassure everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u22	These seem to be changes with a view to improving quality and transparency. Personally, I am ready to come back here, with my collaborators because I like the thematic sessions. That will help us and it will also be the right time, Madam President, to have a comprehensive debate on this subject, which will allow us to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u23	Madam Minister, I note, for the rest of the proceedings, that we will therefore organise a half-day of work on the subject. It is important that all currents can be integrated into reflection. We know that sometimes there are quarrels between them. The legislator and the minister must be above them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u24	This is indeed a challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u26	I know it's like that. These are therapeutic sessions with therapists!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u27	That's right! Hence the importance of not getting into the game of some who would like the work to be done with them more than with others and to really keep that diversity. In view of the group days, I am not sure that we will be able to organize this half-day in September, but in October we will gather the questions and have a moment of discussion with you on the development of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u28	Madam President, Minister, according to an article published in June in the very serious journal The Lancet Oncology, a single dose of vaccine could offer as effective protection as the two or three doses currently recommended for the vaccination of adolescent girls against the various papillomaviruses found in 70% of cervical cancers. I recall that this cancer is the fourth most common in women. The two studies mentioned – one is American, the other is Costa Rican – show that, four years after the injection, women, whether given one, two or three doses, have exactly the same protection. One of these studies was even conducted in double blindness. Minister, have you been aware of the results of these studies? This would relieve the heaviness of vaccination against papillomaviruses. Would it not be interesting to ask the Federal Centre of Expertise on Health Care (KCE) to take up the matter, given the advantage it would have for young girls but also for the state budget? The challenge is to ensure that a single injection of vaccine can be as effective as two or three before making any decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS), in her capacity as the competent authority, has been informed of the Costa Rica and PATRICIA studies, which are the subject of this post hoc analysis by the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the Cervarix vaccine, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). These data were evaluated by the AFMPS in several regulatory procedures. The post hoc analysis is now published, but to my knowledge has not yet been submitted to the evaluation authorities. As you know, in 2007, the KCE issued a report demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of implementing the vaccination of young girls in a classic three-dose regimen of HPV vaccines in Belgium. The advantage of a dose reduced to less than three doses in young girls is now evident. These recent data are already taken into account by the Communities, which have actually increased from three to two doses following the registration by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) of this simplified dose. If a new single dose regimen is to be approved by EMA, it is possible that the Communities will spontaneously decide to switch to this single dose as they did when they moved from three to two doses. A new application to KCE would be justified if elements not taken into account in the 2007 study were to arise. To date, the firm has not yet submitted an application to change the dosage again. Furthermore, the need for a possible booster dose is not clearly established either. We still need to know about this. Since the unidose dose is not yet approved, it would currently be a non-MAH (off-label use) use. This problem is closely followed by the AFMPS as well as by the expert from the Vaccination Group of the Higher Health Council. The final decision on the vaccination scheme used shall be taken by the Flemish and French Communities implementing the vaccination campaigns in their respective Communities. As this topic concerns health, and in particular that of young women and girls, close monitoring of this issue should be ensured. We're in touch and waiting for more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you. I can only go in your direction. There is a need to follow up very closely on this issue. Let's call a cat a cat, the firm doesn't want to quickly submit a request for a reduction and a new indication with a single dose. It's his interest to keep a double dose. I would also point out that there is a federal responsibility since, through the vaccination calendar, a course can be given to the Communities. I will end by pleading with you that, as soon as we are clear about any similar efficacy and protection with a dose, we do not procrastinate and apply it quickly throughout Belgium. It would be a major qualitative element for our teenage girls.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u31	Mrs. Muylle is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u32	Madam Minister, it is well known that alcohol abuse is a problem for young people. On 10 June an article was published in the Flemish newspapers on practices applied by the Association for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems (VAD). The idea is very simple. A number of young people, teenage boys and girls, are sent to a café with some money and order an alcoholic drink that he or she should not drink. If the café holder refuses, the case will receive a positive certificate. If he still serves the drink, he will receive a negative pamphlet on which the legislation is again explained. It is, of course, a purely sensitising action. The initiative was already taken in the Netherlands, where it disappeared almost as quickly. In fact, it turned out that using locals was a criminal offence in the Netherlands. The Flemish Catering Federation supports the initiative because it concerns a sensitising measure and does not penalise the catering operators. However, there are also opponents of the idea. The Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed is less won for the idea. According to the NSZ, the use of decoys in catering would focus only on the catering industry, a sector that has already suffered a lot in recent months. The organisation advocates control actions that are more focused on prevention, rather than small-scale actions with teenagers against a small group of café owners. The organization also points to the sense of responsibility of the teenagers themselves. The action of the VAD seems to have been successful, because in the meantime about twenty Flemish municipalities have won for the idea. So they really want the hospitality business to be monitored more strictly. Do you yourself have any indications that the current controls on minors in cafés do not comply? If so, what are these indications? What do you think of the measure involving the use of teenagers as some sort of control mechanism? What is the legal framework in which the use of so-called attractees is regulated? Is the practice legal? In what way are catering operators currently being informed about the legal framework for the provision of alcohol to minors? Are training courses planned for this purpose? If so, by which authority are they offered? Will you take additional measures to further reduce the consumption of alcohol in minors? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u33	My question, which is a follow-up question, is about the same subject, but it pushes the accent. At the beginning of March, you replied that at peak times, such as after the exam periods, you would intensify the number of checks in neighbourhoods where young people are staying, such as night shops, youth homes, schools and party rooms. You promised to increase the annual checks from 4 000 to 5 000. Have you carried out more checks? If so, how many? Have any additional checks been carried out after the examination period? If so, how many? Where? Have you provided additional staff? What measures are you taking, together with the fellow Members of the Länder, to alert young people to the problem? At the beginning of March, you said that the Public Health Office followed very closely the implementation of a covenant on alcohol advertising and that an evaluation report would be published. Is that evaluation report there yet? If not, when will it arrive? What can we learn from it? What measures will you derive from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u34	Mrs Hufkens, Mrs Dedry, the Tobacco and Alcohol Inspectorate of the Public Health Office has twenty-five inspectors who control the alcohol ban for minors in the field. They check whether beer or wine is not served to minors under the age of 16 or spirits to under-eightiens. It is not obvious to check this because, of course, adult inspectors are being sent. They're quite striking between young people and adolescents at a party. One should go to a party as a parent to get his child. People are being looked out there. So they're being looked out of there, too. They are also often recognized, so they cannot easily return to the same café. They try to rotate. They consult as much as possible with city services, youth services, catering coaches, police and many other interested parties, such as party organisers, in order to provide as much information as possible about the legislation. Indeed, a thousand checks were carried out in the first quarter of this year. At present, 2 100 checks have already been carried out. Additional checks are currently in progress, namely after the exams and around festivals and all kinds of parties and events. As has already been said, we will do everything we can to increase the number of checks to 5 000. I believe that the holiday period is an appropriate time. I cannot, of course, tell or find out who controls where and on what day. However, I am confident that my services will take into account the adjustment of 4 000 checks to 5 000. The use of attractees is part of a range of possibilities to make café operators even more aware of the alcohol regulation. My administration can't employ lurers, because it would be a form of entrapment or provocation. It's forbidden by law. The Association for Alcohol and other Drug Problems can and does. It cannot draw up a judicial file, it can only inform the catering operator concerned. The Tobacco and Alcohol Control Office is also currently working on an alcohol brochure, which will be distributed as widely as possible, with the necessary explanations for young people and in close contact with the city services, youth services and various youth organisations. I don't want to know how many bottles of booze go to those youth camps. Those are not cafes, but in my practice I have heard stories about a truck drink driving to the youth camps. It will not be the children of five or six years old who will drink it, I hope. The alcohol agreement is indeed being evaluated. We don't have one yet. If it turns out that additional measures are needed, we will also take them. It is a serious matter and one must learn how to handle drinking at the appropriate age. A large group of young people are to be made aware of the age at which they are not yet of age. I would ask everyone to make an effort, including youth associations and party organizers. The inspectors do their best, but they are very visible; they are like zebras in a herd of horses. They are very visible, simply by their age. Anyone who wants to think out of the box and can find a way to send inspectors there who do not stand out among the young should make a proposal. So far, however, that has been the harsh reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u35	Madam Secretary, you have a point, as far as those adult inspectors are concerned. However, it is also very difficult for catering operators to estimate age. A 15-year-old guy sometimes looks like a 13-year-old guy, and vice versa. So I think there is still a need for some sensitisation for the café operators. By the way, café operators are allowed to ask for an identity card, while porters are not allowed to. Perhaps you could raise this issue with your colleague, Minister Jambon, to see if there are any possibilities in this area. I am very pleased with your statement that inciting is forbidden by the administration, but is allowed for sensitising organizations such as the VAD. I hope we keep that line. Although this is now a very nice symbolic action, I think, quite frankly, that the control of alcohol abuse and sensitisation is primarily the responsibility of the government. I certainly wanted to underline that once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u36	Madam Secretary, perhaps you should use Jani to restore your auditors so they look years younger.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u37	If I turn on Jani, it'll be more for myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u38	You lure it out yourself and make me joke. All madness on a stick, you haven't answered a question yet. When will that evaluation report be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u39	I have no idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u40	I would like to remind the members of the committee that we have a motion for a resolution on the use of alcohol on the table. Opinions have been requested and we have received almost all opinions. The file will be placed on the agenda after the start of the school year. But we have not received the opinions of the Communities. Since there are representatives of parties present in the governments of the Communities, if you want us to have them, I would advise you to stimulate the Flemish Community and the French Community so that they can give us their opinion by the end of September. That'd be good. Otherwise, we will do without it; but that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u41	Madam President, I would first like to point out that my question No 5700 will be turned into a written question. Minister, MERS Coronavirus, or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, first appeared in Jordan and in June 2012 in Saudi Arabia, where it killed more than 400 people. Since then, cases have been recorded in 25 countries, including South Korea, where it has claimed the highest number of victims after Saudi Arabia. For example, 95 infected people have been identified and 11 people have lost their lives after acquiring the virus, against which there is no vaccine or treatment and which is currently unknown. However, it appears that the majority of cases, attributable to human-to-human transmission, have been identified in the context of a nosocomial infection. Madam Minister, European countries would be among the 25 countries affected by the MERS: France, Germany, the Netherlands, Greece, Italy, Austria, Turkey and the United Kingdom. Can you confirm that no cases of MERS coronavirus have been reported in our country? With regard to the management of patients, within the framework of the Ebola epidemic, specific procedures have been introduced to detect and control the spread of this disease in us. Would this procedure apply to the MERS coronavirus or should another procedure be in place? Madam Minister, we talked about this in a previous committee where you gave information about the dossier for setting up a highly secure P4 specialist unit at our home, with the budgetary problems that related to it. You mentioned the report of unit visits to France, Germany and England by the FPS Health Coordination Team. Since then, have there been any developments in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u42	There have indeed been cases of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in different European countries since 2012. All cases are related to stays in one of the affected countries of the Middle East or direct contacts. Since 2012, several suspicious cases have been identified in Belgium and microbiological analyses have confirmed that none of them suffer from MERS-CoV. Belgium has a mechanism for warning and risk assessment coordinated by the Scientific Institute of Public Health (WIV-ISP), which ensures the epidemiological follow-up of the disease and evaluates the risk associated with this pathology and its risk of importation for our country. In addition, the treatment procedure, or hospitalization of patients affected by highly contagious diseases, was introduced during the events of 2001 and adapted in 2003 during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic. In 2012, with the emergence of MERS-CoV, this hospitalization capacity was integrated into the procedure for handling suspect cases and the diagnostic capacity was created by the National Reference Centre. Belgium is therefore organised to deal with an infectious risk because it has a procedure for identifying suspicious patients, a diagnostic capacity and a capacity for hospitalization. You refer to the report on working visits in the context of the possible establishment of a specialised unit. Doctors Vlieghe and Reynders are taking care of it, as I said before. This report will soon be forwarded to my strategic cell for analysis with them, but also with all those involved in this issue in more detail. We have taken all necessary steps. We had a discussion in committee about the Ebola virus. I was asked why we were still taking action at the airport and in the ports, but in the meantime we had two suspicious cases, fortunately without follow-up. So it goes on. Liberia was rid of Ebola, but there were still new cases. In Guinea, there are also several reported cases. So we are not yet quiet. With MERS, it's the same thing. There are mutations of the virus and with the globalized world in which we live, we must be very careful. Thanks to the measures that have been taken, we are fully prepared, but vigilance must always remain in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In short, the situation is under control, but we must remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u44	You must never lower your guard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u45	Madam President, Minister, in May, Mrs Dedry and I asked you about the sugar working group. You replied that you had chosen to hold bilateral consultations and only then to convene a working party in its plenary session. Have the bilateral meetings already taken place? If so, how many? Which sectors were involved? Has the working party in its plenary session already come together? Who was all there? What subjects were on the agenda? What does the work of this group look like? The next question was not tabled, but I read this week that there is a pact on the table. Is this being worked out in the light of the working group and Fevia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I am largely in agreement with my colleague's question. It is true that it concerns the working group on sugar and the timetable in question. I understand that there has already been consultations with the soya and margarine sectors, that meetings were scheduled for May with the cereals, the dairy sector and the large-scale distribution sector, and that we would then return to the plenary composition of the working group on sugar. It's July now, hence my questions. Can you tell us a little more about the state of play of these bilateral consultations? Which sectors have already consulted? When will the other sectors be discussing? When will they meet again in the plenary working group on sugar? How far do the producers want to go at the moment? Do they already agree to concrete reductions? Do you see major bottlenecks or do you see a possible consensus?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u47	Madam President, the bilateral meetings between my administration and the various economic operators are under way. We sat together with the large distribution via Comeos, the representative of Belgian trade and services, and with the federation of breakfast cereals. Those first two exchanges took place constructively. This month meetings are planned with the producers of prepared meals and with a company active in fast food. The dairy sector would also soon meet with our experts from the Energy Reduction Working Group and Fevia, in order to take stock of the situation. Meetings with several other partners are scheduled during September. These meetings are essential to make progress and to set realistic and sustainable reduction values, which are also feasible for the sectors concerned. Normally there will be a plenary session with all partners in the autumn. The aim is to achieve a consensus that represents a concrete commitment from all sectors. You also know that a global energy reduction effort will have to be made by everyone. This is not only about cereal, but also about added sugars and methods of preparation. This will therefore require investment. After all, sugar is also a preservative. For example, sugar jam stores much longer than jam without sugar. This also affects consumers. If there is mold on the jam quickly, it is because there is little added sugar in it. If there's no fungus on it, the jam will be ant-sweet. In any case, the intention is to reach a consensus, to work towards the plenary and to push who can make what effort and what is reasonable. I think that is the only way we can achieve a result. The same has happened in recent years for the reduction of salt. However, sugar reduction appears to be even more difficult because the consumer tastes it faster. I heard that in Riga, too. The problem is, of course, that in our shelves there is nourishment from everywhere. Also in fast food and in preparation sugar or salt is often added. It is therefore a delicate exercise, but we must continue to move forward in this respect. It is important to go to consensus and set out a path for the next few years. You also know that it took ten years to reduce salt. So we will also try to set out a path for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u48	That is very positive, Madam Secretary. It may be difficult, but the amount of sugar is an important enemy to be defeated. For salt, the way of the sector consultation has proven to work. We therefore hope for similar results with regard to sugar.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u49	Madam Secretary, I fully support this. I note, however, that if the consensus were to be based on a minimum effort, a health minister would, in my view, have to go beyond too little effort on the part of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u50	Madam Minister, my question, as it was originally drafted, is now dated after the hearing on the land register. However, since many fellow Members wanted to follow up on my question and since there is no report on the hearing, I have not withdrawn my question. Let me summarize what I understood from your answer to my question last week at the hearing on the land register. If I have understood correctly, you said that there will not be an evaluation of the filter that has now been established by Minister Marcort until next year. Only after the approval of this evaluation in the Interministerial Conference can a decision be made on a further lissage after 2016, so that current students can get a RIZIV number after graduation, provided that there is also a negative lissage on the new quotas as of 2022. Did I get that correctly? During the hearing, I also learned that the dynamic register is now being interpreted further in order to record these new quotas as correctly as possible. I also saw in the subsequent questions the need to take into account foreign students returning abroad and the like. I assume this will also be included in the discussions. Did I summarize it correctly this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, it has been a month since I tabled this question. There was an agreement that from the moment a very effective filter was put in place at Community level, there was clearly then the issue of INAMI numbers to qualified doctors and dentists. In parliamentary questions, you expressed the fact that you thought that the preliminary draft decree made at the level of the French Community would be denounced by the Council of State and that it would then go to the Constitutional Court. Basically, he was good at throwing in the trash.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u52	Mrs Fonck, if you quote me, do it right! I never said he was good at throwing in the trash.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u53	I wasn't quoting you. Otherwise, I'd have opened the quotes, which I didn't do. You did not actually use those words. I'm the one who translates. Well, you said it sucked and didn't happen. When you said that, I cannot imagine that your collaborators did not know that there had already been a ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2014. This decision was very clear because it validated proportionality in a selection made at the end of the first year of medicine or dentistry. Since then, time has passed, and that's so much better. The decree of the French Community passed into committee and was voted in plenary in Parliament. Moreover, there was no criticism of the elements that you highlighted by the Council of State, which necessarily referred to the Constitutional Court's decision of 2014. The application is scheduled and scheduled for the academic year 2015-2016, in accordance with the agreement you had between the federal government and the federated entities. Madam Minister, could you please tell me where the federal government is, since the terms and conditions have been laid down by each Community, respectively? It is also their own competence. This is legally validated by the bodies I have just mentioned. As a reminder, there was also an agreement between the deans of the faculties of medicine and, therefore, universities. For me, if there's agreement, it's a contract. Each must then respect its part of the contract. Minister, will you comply with the part of your contract, i.e., to ensure that every doctor or dentist with a diploma is granted an INAMI number? Will you be able to do so quickly because, I would remind you, we need to amend a royal decree? The aim is to make things clear and to avoid the current students and those who will finish next June being the turkeys of the farce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u54	Madam Chair, Minister, the discussion on the physician cadastre inevitably led us to address this delicate issue. Today, a number of students with plans to pursue or begin medical or dental studies remain with their questions. As my colleague Mrs Fonck has just pointed out, you have committed yourself to issuing INAMI certificates to all students undergoing training – or I have not understood correctly – as long as the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is putting in place a filter system for access.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u55	This system must not only exist, but it must be effective. If I have a phone that doesn't allow me to phone, it's not effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u56	Let's not play words! If you have a phone that doesn't work, it's not a phone!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u57	If the filter doesn't work, it's not a filter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u58	So we need an effective filter! This is a false debate. This is a debate of intent. This means that the legislator of the federated entities could have put in place a system that would meet the request of the federal government, but on the assumption that it will not be effective, precautions are taken. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation has fulfilled its commitments. The texts were submitted to the Council of State. He replied that the system in place was not incompatible with free access to higher education. It is not discriminatory vis-à-vis non-residents. The committee, like the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, voted with a large majority. The contract is therefore fulfilled. It's, at least, my vision of things. I have the feeling, as you have already said during our exchange on the cadastre, that we must first see the effectiveness. I don't understand what that means. I'm not a doctor or a university professor. Modestly, I'm a teacher of training. To say in advance when a system will be considered effective seems difficult to me. I'd like to be told what that means. With this restriction and that part of the path you seem to no longer want to do, there are still questions in the heads of those who want to pursue studies and wonder if, at the end of these, they will receive their INAMI number. We can play semantic games, but we're beyond it. Minister, do you confirm this information? Can you explain to me what an effective filter is to you? Of course, everyone has their own perception of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u59	Madam Chair, Ms. Van Peel, Ms. Fonck, Mr. Frédéric, thank you for your filter questions during the years of medical and dental studies. Contrary to what you say, there is no contract with the French Community for the issue of training certificates. I did propose a piste for a possible solution to your party colleague Marcourt, Minister of Education. That piste implied a number of expectations. A first expectation was that I would deliver a dynamic land register. We had said "for the summer" and it was there in May 2015. A second expectation was that there would be a visible restriction on the influx of students into the course of medicine and dentistry, otherwise we would not be able to come to the necessary interventions. In the meantime, the number of graduate doctors and dentists had to be eliminated. The longer the problem drags on, the bigger it gets. I would like to make two points. Again, it is clear that the issuing of training certificates should not be confused with making RIZIV numbers available. The RIZIV number is an automatic consequence of the first and is an administrative matter. Application of the policy to date on the delivery of training certificates according to the possibilities offered by the lissage procedure, which continues until 2018, whereby certificates linked to the quota can be used earlier for later years, sufficient training certificates have been issued to be made available to students graduating in 2015 and 2016. The Royal Decree of 12 June 2008 on the planning of the medical offer deals with federal global quotas until 2020. It is my intention to apply the federal quotas for 2020 also in 2021, i.e. an extension of the quotas. It concerns 1 230 training certificates for the Empire, 738 for the Flemish Community and 492 for the French Community. This will be included in a dossier prepared for the Council of Ministers. I was able to read the opinion of the Council of State on the draft decree of the French Community and came to the conclusion that it is in line with the analysis I have previously shared. Nevertheless, although the Council of State had asked the same relevant questions concerning the violation of freedom of movement concerning non-residents, the principle of equality and non-discrimination, it had only considered that more clarification should be provided on a number of provisions but not that the decree could not be adopted. The two points I have made are the same as those contained in the opinion of the Council of State. That means that my analysis was relevant. The decree introduces a filter at the end of the first year of study, according to which one must reach not only 45 points but also a good ranking during the test which gives access to the continuation of the studies. The decree will apply from the academic year 2015-2016. The discussions at the Public Interministerial Conference on 29 June 2015 show that both the Federal Government and the Flemish Government still have a number of concerns regarding the legal soundness of the filter. I know that it was under Minister Marcourt's responsibility to introduce the filter, either at the start of medical studies or after a year of study. This is his responsibility. But this does not allow us to see the result of this filter before the end of the second session of the academic year 2015-2016. It has always been said that the proposed filter must convince both the federal and the other Community in terms of efficiency. It cannot be evaluated until mid-2016, after the second session of the academic year 2015-2016, at a time when it has been fully and effectively applied for the first time. Since the current smoothing system also permits the issuance of a certificate for Francophone students who complete their final year of study next academic year, it is not yet necessary to adapt immediately and urgently, as you say, the federal regulations. In any event, it is clear that from 2021 onwards, for students who, in June-July 2015, have not yet started their medical studies, no certificate of training can and will not be issued to overcrowded graduates who are not included in the quotas. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 29 June, the Working Party on Occupational Care was asked to continue its work as well. In view of the delicate and complex nature of the subject and the work being done by the working party, I shall not anticipate it. In all serenity, I say that the working party has the opportunity to continue its work. The Group's proposals should provide a sustainable, structural and comprehensive solution to, among other things, the continued overflow of medical students in relation to quotas, the reduction of the accumulated number of students, which is increasing and needs to be compensated, so we certainly cannot wait for an objective debate on the required medical workforce and any bottleneck specializations, and the need to review the current quotas. At the end of last week, we set up the new Planning Committee. The new Planning Commission was established on Friday to move the work forward. You know that his task is immense. The members, once installed, were excited by the model they received. We have also provided information with explanations. Working groups have been set up for all professions. We will therefore not waste any time. I stick to my part of the agreements, such as installing the new Planning Committee and delivering the dynamic land register. I also intend to sign the Royal Decree if there is a clear decline in the influx of students into the training and, as a result, a marked drop in the number of graduating students. However, I also know what has happened in the past. So I won't let you roll me twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u60	Madam Secretary, you are right that you have already made more than your share of the agreement. The fact that Minister Marcort has opted for a filter at the end of the year, which results in students losing another year, is his responsibility. We have nothing to say about this at the federal level. However, this filter will also have to be approved by the other Community and Mr Marcourt will have to convince that Community too. That is not the case today. Why is that so important? That is because an imbalance has been created for 18 years by unwillingness on the part of the French Community. Mr Fonck and Mr Frédéric, the contract was concluded 18 years ago at the federal level. Then the quota was introduced. There's a partner who hasn't performed the contract in 18 years. The French Community will have to meet its obligations first; otherwise, as you said, Madam Minister, there will be a surplus of more than 2 800 graduates by 2018. That is already the case. That's gonna have to be paid off anyway. The minimum we can now ask for is that there should be at least an effective filter. We take responsibility at the federal level, and even more than that, but the responsibility must now finally be put where it really needs to lie, namely with Minister Marcourt and not here. It's as clear as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u61	Minister, in my personal capacity, I was in favour of a pre-first-year selection. The fact is that a very broad agreement was reached with the universities to organise a selection at the end of the first year. This in no way diminishes its effectiveness. Then, when, while a very clear ruling of the Constitutional Court was delivered in 2014, some still come to question the validity and legal soundness of the system, it is not to understand anything. The Constitutional Court is no longer explicit as to proportionality. In addition, it has rendered an extremely consistent judgment. When I hear some members of the Flemish Community speaking, I would like to say two things to them. First, in all these years, a surplus has also been recorded within their Community. So, please stop playing white knights! Secondly, while the French Community has determined a numberrus fixus, a precise quota of students, I observe that the Flemish Community has certainly committed itself to reform and strengthen its examination of entry, but without setting up numerus fixus. In this area again, we have no lesson to learn! Minister, all the elements are in place to ensure that you honour the commitment you made. You promised that graduates from a fixed selection would receive an INAMI number. Of course, various aspects still need to be discussed – I am thinking in particular of smoothing – but this cannot in any case delay the entry into force of the royal decree, which is indispensable. If you don't take it, it means that you continue to hang a sword of Damocles on the head of all the students who will graduate in 2016 and the following years. This amounts to playing with students who are currently at the end of their course and with those who are starting their course. Finally, Madam Minister, I will tell you something that I have never said or even thought about so far. At this stage, I regret to note that in this case you are acting more like a Flemish policy than a federal health minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u62	What you say is truly scandalous!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u63	Only the French Community, when I have just recalled what is happening to the Flemish Community, is unacceptable, as is also unacceptable the selection which will be made next year. I am thinking in particular of the students, doctors and dentists who will be graduating next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u64	Madam President, I have the feeling that this INAMI issue is a Community problem. This impression is shared by some. Maybe it's not well-founded. However, I am more and more convinced of this, and if that is really the case, I regret it. The minister can defend herself, but that is, in any case, my feeling. In my opinion, the federated entities have their responsibilities in a variety of matters. They take on their responsibilities. They make decisions. They carry texts. They are fulfilling their commitments. But with every additional requirement, we see a step backwards, so that we never meet, which is a shame. Indeed, for my part, I am more in favour of encounter and dialogue than of systematic, stupid and wicked opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u65	I think we should not turn things upside down. Mrs. Fonck, I think you're suffering from memory problems. In October, when I started working in this field, the students were in distress because there was no solution for their INAMI number. I received them, as well as the deans, the doctors, and all the people that needed to be received. I have therefore put forward a proposal to the Ministers, Mr Marcourt and Mr Crevits, to find a solution, not only to French-speaking but also to the Dutch-speaking side, for the transfer to dental and medical students. That solution was adopted by the end of November following many other consultations, and many concerts were even accepted by Mr Marcourt to his French colleague, Mr Marcourt. I think that is a good thing. Mrs Crevits then promised to review the access test, because she had to deal with a number of professions, which increased the number of successful students after a number of trials. She did so immediately and carried out another kind of interrogation, from forty to sixty questions, for example. I understand the work hasn't been done with her either. It will take further action to ensure that there is a clear filter at the beginning of the studies. Mr Marcort opted for a filter at the end of the studies. I take note of that. It is his right to make that decision, but for both the Flemish Government and the federal government there are still things that are not convincing. As a result, no consensus was reached at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. That is why the issue has been delegated to the working groups, which must continue to work on it. You say there were problems for the students. It's true, there's been a lot of trouble for years. I'm the one who developed a lead. I said from the beginning that the students and their entourage were not responsible for the difficulties they were in. What are the real problems? You should be concerned about that, Mrs. Fonck. The real problem is that the number of students on the French-speaking side, both in the fields of dental medicine and medicine as well as in the field of veterinary medicine, cannot guarantee the quality of training and internships. Even if the graduates get a number from the RIZIV, they won't be able to earn their living anymore and they'll have to swerve. In northern France it is already full of Belgian veterinarians. They will have to swim to other countries to earn their living. It is a great concern, not only from me, but also from the deans, that the quality of training, training and practical training can no longer be guaranteed. As you know, half of dental training consists of practical training. Such training must be available. Then the graduate doctors and dentists will indeed be sure that they can get internships in hospitals. That is my concern, nothing more and nothing less. It has been and will always be a Community dossier for almost 20 years. The surpluses must be compensated. That is the agreement made in the Flemish government and also in the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u66	The last word being reserved for parliamentarians, I give you thirty seconds. These are oral questions, not an open debate. There is no proportionality. Ask that the Rules of the House be amended if you don't like it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u67	Madam President, I will be very brief. I am very pleased with the Minister's second response and I follow her in that. It must be done with the passing of the blackbird to her, while she has just provided a solution to a problem that could have been left untouched, so that one has to pay for the problems that have been dragged on for so long, Mrs Fonck. Mr Frédéric, if you do not want a Community dossier, you should not create one yourself, because this really happened on your side, in no other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u68	Minister, my memory is working well! I have deplored the situation for years! In fact, I had put forward solutions in committee and for years I have found it scandalous to see INAMI numbers distributed to non-Belgian European doctors or dentists, even though ours are being punished. Rather than playing ping-pong on the students' backs, what I expect is that the ministers in charge, at each level of power, find a solution and lock a decision and that everyone respects the commitment he has made. I see that some have done so, others have not! On the aspect of the quality of training, obviously, compared to a selection at the end of the first year, a course of 6+3 or 6+6 makes possible audiences and internships carried out by a reasonable number of students. Indeed, it is a major issue and on which it is important to continue to move forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u69	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u70	If we want to continue to discuss this issue, we will try to do so more sequentially, as we have done for the cadastre. But perhaps it is the entire system that needs to be changed in the regulation of the provision of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u71	Madam Minister, the reason for this question was an e-mail from someone who was in this situation. It is no secret that those who donate blood can save lives and that voluntary donation of blood must be strongly encouraged. The Red Cross, which organizes the blood donation, and hospitals provide safe blood supply, is constantly looking for suitable blood donors. It goes without saying that the necessary security measures must be put in place. It is not desirable to have persons with a particular disease or condition donated. However, sometimes a diagnosis is made in blood analysis which appears to be incorrect after additional examination. In the event of such a diagnosis, the person concerned shall be temporarily excluded as a precautionary measure. This can be for a fairly long time, even if it turns out that the person concerned is perfectly healthy. That's too bad for the patients who need the blood and for the motivated blood donors. Our legislation on these precautionary and security measures rightly sets out a clear framework. However, what should be done when it can be demonstrated that a blood analysis has been misdiagnosed is not clearly defined. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. If it can be shown that an incorrect diagnosis has been made in blood analysis, can the temporary ban on donation be lifted? In this case, what precautions should be taken? What else do you consider possible to avoid unnecessary temporary exclusions so that as many blood donors as possible can be contacted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u72	Mrs Van Peel, this is an interesting question. The law is clear. It is a legal obligation to exclude blood and blood derivatives that respond positively in a serological screening test for infection from therapeutic use. This obligation shall not change if positive screening results are not confirmed. In order to prevent a donor from giving blood that cannot be used, blood establishments will inform and temporarily exclude the donor from giving blood if false positive screening results occur in two or more consecutive donations. Then only tubes are taken for further examination. If they prove to be good, the blood can be re-used at the next blood sampling. Many things, such as too high sedimentation, too high or too low hemoglobin or impaired liver tests, are flashing lights that indicate that there may be something wrong with a patient. That's also a safety for the receiver. Since the reason for a false positive screening result in a donor is unknown and false positive screening results are not frequent, it is considered that there is no reason to change that precautionary measure. That could be more dangerous than maintaining the precautionary measure. I understand your point of view. You say that the blood might be used and that the donors should not be demotivated. If their blood wasn't used, they might hesitate to go next time. It is well explained to them, there is a letter to them and to their doctor. That's why the GP knows what's wrong with the blood. He can also do additional checks, because it is not the first time that something comes to light in a patient. We must try to safeguard the safety of the recipient at all times. As I said, there are few false positive screenings. The investigation is getting more sophisticated. It doesn't matter that sometimes people will get temporary exclusions. That blood won't be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand, of course, that safety is above all else. That is a principle which we certainly should not abandon, but the example I was given concerned someone who had shown that the result was falsely positive. The blood was thus actually reapproved, but the person in question remained excluded for two years as a precautionary measure. Isn't that out of proportion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u74	It depends on which parameter had risen in the blood. For example, at an increased sedimentation rate, the time limit is three months. Then a new check will be carried out. In case of insufficient iron or haemoglobin, the blood is sometimes used, but iron is still given to the patient. One then receives a letter asking for iron to be taken for the next blood sampling. It's got deadlines on it. It depends on which parameter in the blood count was increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u75	I will at least send the person in question an e-mail to keep him motivated. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u76	Question No 5258 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u77	Madam President, Minister, researchers recently denounced the addictive action of pyrazine in tobacco and called for its prohibition. This is not the first time that researchers have denounced the fact that nicotine alone cannot explain the power of addiction to tobacco. It is the combination of additives and nicotine that would cause high dependence. This time, it's a publication in Tobacco Control, a news agency from the British Medical Journal that specifically points to pyrazine. Pyrazine is a molecule whose strong smelling power is used to flavour foods. From what I have read about it, it can, for example, give a taste of chocolate or roasted peanuts. Cigarette makers have probably developed cigarettes with less nicotine to satisfy smokers' palates and have softened the taste of tobacco using pyrazine. This is all the more worrying as softened taste would help to target young consumers, specifically 18-24 year olds. The newspaper Le Soir also revealed, according to Dr. Hillel Alpert of Harvard School of Public Health, the main author of the recent publication, that, I quote: "The sensory effects of pyrazine clearly play an essential role in the dependence of tobacco products and in increasing the attractiveness of smoking, especially among young people". The daily also relayed the concern of Pierre Bizel, the head of health education at the Hainaut Health Observatory and spokesman for the National Coalition against Tobacco. He explains that a young person becomes dependent in only three weeks by ignoring that he often becomes addicted for years. The Newsweek of 11 June also relays this study by pointing to electronic cigarettes. Because of pyrazine, these would be as addictive as tobacco. It is well known that the European Parliament has adopted a directive which will prohibit cigarettes and rolling tobacco containing a characteristic flavour in 2016. It does not mention the flavours concerned, but it is known that menthol will be banned. What about pyrazine? Minister, have you been aware of this research on pyrazine? If so, do you think they are likely to consider a ban on the addition of this molecule? Is it true that pyrazine is not currently recognised as a characteristic flavour within the meaning of the European Directive, as is menthol, and therefore nothing is foreseen to prohibit it at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u78	Recently it appeared in the press that smoking is number one as the main cause of cancer. In the light of my previous experience, that makes me particularly concerned. As my colleague pointed out, there was a fuss about the chemical pyrazine. Scientists have discovered that she would play a role in addiction both in isolation and in combination with nicotine. She's in ordinary cigarettes as well as in roll tobacco and e-cigarettes. Tobacco producers are suspected of using the substance to make cigarettes even more addictive. At the same time, they reduce nicotine levels, which gives the impression that cigarettes are less addictive. Moreover, it is also about making young people more addicted. The fabric provides a softer and less bitter taste. That should worry us all, especially if we can prove the link to cancer. What do you do with the new scientific insight? Are you planning legislative initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u79	Madam President, as you know, the new European Directive 2014/40/EU on tobacco products provides for new measures on, inter alia, the labelling of tobacco products and the use of ingredients in tobacco products. It will be transposed and applicable for May 2016. In particular, tobacco products that produce a characteristic flavour are to be prohibited in order to reduce the attractiveness of these products. A characteristic flavour is defined as a clearly identifiable smell or taste other than that of tobacco derived from an additive or a combination of additives, including fruit, spices, aromatic plants, alcohol, confectionery, menthol or vanilla. This list is not exhaustive. This flavour must be identifiable before or during consumption of the tobacco product. That is a whole description of what can be in tobacco to make it more attractive. Pyrazine does not fall into this category. It will therefore not be prohibited by this measure. However, the Directive provides that Member States shall prohibit the marketing on a scientific basis of tobacco products containing additives in quantities which, on consumption, increase to a significant or measurable extent the toxic or addictive effects of a tobacco product or the carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic characteristics of a tobacco product. On the basis of that Article, therefore, there will be a possibility to ban an ingredient once the Directive is implemented if it has been confirmed that it increases the addictive nature of tobacco products. Producers are inventive. Fortunately, the list is not exhaustive. As soon as a substance can be more addictive, we can act. However, this is often the case in the course of time; the sector is indeed very inventive in this respect. This is found in the directive, but it is possible to amend it as far as pyrazine is concerned. I'm not a psychic, but we're not done with this problem. One will always add new things to try to make smoking more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u80	Cigarette makers want cigarettes to taste as much as ice cream, and it's a real scandal. It's the power of money, no matter the health of the moment we sell cigarettes. We must continue to be very vigilant in this regard. Could we not consider an information campaign for young people? Adults are told enough that they are at risk for cancer. At the age of thirty or forty, people begin to understand that they are not safe. But young people don't care. It is they who must be made aware. Would it not be possible to set up a public health awareness and information campaign at the FPS level? We could also work with federated entities to get something done in schools. It's pretty creepy to see young teenagers try smoking without knowing what's threatening them after. I thank you for asking you to keep an eye on this. I know that you are concerned as Minister of Health, as a doctor, and as a woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u81	We have taken measures at the federal and provincial and regional levels for prevention. I think we need to continue to take action. This new directive will allow us to be even more stringent. As far as attractiveness is concerned, for my part, I have never smoked and I do not think it smells good. However, the attractiveness of certain things, such as tobacco, among young people is very strong. I am not naive, we must continue to fight against this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u82	That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u83	Madam Secretary, I am glad to hear that you have the opportunity to act. We must continue to fight this and seize every opportunity. Of course, it is true that producers are very inventive, but I do not think we can accept that. I believe we all share the same concern here. That's not the point. We don't have to discuss that. I hope you will take the right measures when the time is right. Then we can talk about that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u84	Madam Secretary, in your reply at the beginning of May, you confirmed that an investigation into the practices of the ONE had started. Is the investigation still going on? Which steps have already been taken and which have yet to be taken? Are there any results? Have you had any contact with your fellow Members of the Walloon Government on this dossier? Does the ONE cooperate in this investigation? Is Child and Family also heard in this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u85	Mrs Van Camp, the competent services of the RIZIV are indeed investigating further the invoicing of preventive health care offered by ONE and Child and Family, prenatally and postnatally. Compliance with the legal provisions will be checked. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service has started this investigation. In accordance with Article 141 (1) and (3) of the Law of 14 July 1994, the service must ensure the secrecy of the investigation as long as the investigation is not completed. A number of technical elements ensure that an in-depth investigation will take several months. The study requires, inter alia, an analysis of specific invoicing data. As part of its audit mission, the department requested the information from the insurance institutions. When this investigation is completed, I can inform you about the findings made, the possible consequences and the possible recommendations. The dialogue with the French Community on this dossier was therefore initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. To be continued after recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u87	Madam Minister, in March I asked you a question about the eHealth platform following an article published in the newspaper. Among other things, that article said that the administrator-general, who is responsible for setting up this system, would undermine the whole project through his authoritarian management style. The Doctor's Newspaper then also performed a number of testimonies. You said at that time that the mandate of the person in question was almost at an end and that an evaluation would follow within three months before deciding on the possible extension of his mandate. Is this evaluation over yet? If so, what is the result? If not, what steps will be taken? How does the development and implementation of the eHealth platform proceed? What is the timeline to follow here? Will the comprehensive evaluation of the administrator-general have an impact on the development and implementation timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u88	On your first question, I can inform you that the administrator-general of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security was reviewed on 11 May 2015, in accordance with the provisions of Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2003 following a proposal from the management committee of the Royal Decree-Law. In this context, the eHealth platform was also discussed. On your second question, I can tell you that there are no reported problems with the implementation of the eHealth platform. This evolves in accordance with the governance agreement. Every six months, the administrator-general shall report on this to the management committee of the eHealth platform. The latest reporting dates from 10 February 2015. The report of 60 pages is positive across the board and was approved by the Management Committee without comments. Let me give you some examples. All basic services requested in the administrative agreement are available. The eHealth platform quickly achieves the required 99.5 % availability for all basic services. The realisations can also be consulted publicly via the website of the eHealth platform. The timetable for further development of the eHealth platform is, on the one hand, determined by the governance agreement, which should also be renewed this year and, on the other hand, by the Roadmap eHealth, which is currently being updated. We have been working on this for two months, especially since it requires a completely new chapter on mobile health. This work will be completed in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u89	Madam Minister, we particularly hope that attention will also be paid to aligning all existing systems with international standards. If I understand the field correctly, there are often problems connecting other systems and tools to the existing systems. In hospitals, for example, the coupling is not always smooth. We hope that this will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u90	Minister, on 19 June, the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB), which brings together 42 professional nursing organisations, organized a round table/conference to communicate to the authorities its proposals for reform of nursing practice. Various topics were discussed: the professional and competence profile of the nurse in charge of general care, the differentiation of functions, the code of ethics, subsidiarity and delegation of acts, memorandums of understanding, consultations and nursing requirements. On that day, your representative indicated that preparatory work in working groups and with consultative bodies was being set up to work together on how to respond to the challenges of tomorrow. As you know, Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications must be transposed before 2016. In this context, the opinion issued by the Federal Council of Nursing on April 1, 2015 on the professional profile and competencies of the nurse in charge of general care is an important first step. This opinion has been given to you. The revision of Royal Decree No. 78 is also a complex matter that deserves our full attention. Minister, could you inform us of the work already done by the working groups and with the consultation bodies? Are they already in place? What are the missions and compositions of these working groups? Which consultation bodies have you met before? What are the first results - or more - of these exchanges? What is your status in transposing Directive 2013/55/EU? Will the deadline for transposition be met? To what extent do you intend to take account of the reflections and proposals made by the UGIB? How do you plan to organize future consultation with UGIB and its associations on nursing reform? Has an agenda been set for this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u91	Madam President, Madam Minister, on June 18, the Royal Decree of May 10, 2015 coordinating Royal Decree No. 78 of November 10, 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions was published in the Belgian Moniteur. The former Article 21quinquies defining the practice of nursing and the related activities became Article 46. I also refer to the European Directive 2013/55/EU that you are probably aware of. Article 31 of that Directive takes into account the name "infirmary responsible for general care" and Article 31(7) specifies the powers to be applied. In this regard, consideration is being given in federal jurisdictions to defining the future profile of our nurses in relation to the health care needs of the coming years, whether in terms of population aging, increasing chronic care, technological advances, or increased quality and safety requirements. Many studies show that at the most the level of training in health care professions, and in particular nurses, is increasing, at the best of which one is able to reduce the mortality of patients. It is therefore important to reform our legislation in the light of this directive, on which Belgium was notified for non-compliance with the first version (sectoral directive 2005/36/EC) on 29 January 2009 and a second time on 29 November 2009. The modernisation of this directive in 2013 provides for two years for implementation and an evaluation in January 2016. It is therefore more than necessary to ensure the legal certainty of the title of nurse, by implementing the European name "caregiver responsible" at the end of the training in higher education, as stipulated in the European Directive, and by guaranteeing it the possibility to qualify for continuing training. As a result, Minister, I have two questions. What is the current state of the matter in terms of transposing the Directive into our legislation in terms of determining the exercise of the nursing profession and protecting the title, in order to meet the deadline for evaluation? Is there still a need for contacts with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Community, which are responsible for training, in order to finalize the dossier at federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u92	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Caprasse, you have just referred to the conference of the General Union of Nurses. It was a round table ending six months of preparatory round-table discussions between professional organisations and working groups on various topics. I was invited. However, being retained by a Council of Ministers, I sent a representative, Mrs Sonja Vertriest, a nurse, because the topics discussed were very important for the future of this profession. She was in charge of a presentation. In addition, my office received representatives of the Union of Nurses on 25 June to discuss these issues. However, the official advisory body for all these matters, as provided for in Royal Decree No. 78, is the Federal Council of Nursing Art. He sent me an own-initiative opinion on 1 April 2015 on the basis of the practice of nursing and the qualifications required through a professional profile and skills. This competency profile proposed by that Council is an explanation, a more detailed development of the minimum nursing skills already provided for in the European Directive 2005/36/EC. In accordance with its mandate under Royal Decree No. 78, the Federal Council has also transmitted this professional and competence profile to the Community Ministers responsible for education. The position of the Federal Council is that all the elements contained in the European Directive 2013/55/EC must be included in Royal Decree No 78 in order to be able to practise as a nurse. In addition, I should reserve access to the profession, in the future, for new nursing graduates who have reached at least the skills developed in his opinion. It is my intention to meet fairly quickly with representatives of the Federal Council on this last point. As regards the transposition of Directive 2013/55/EC, it will take place within the deadlines laid down for both horizontal articles and for articles of a sectoral nature, including those relating to nursing. As far as implementation is concerned, some adjustments are expected for the volume of training and traineeship schedules in order to comply with the Directive. These adaptations, however, concern the organization of training and do not fall within federal jurisdiction. The competent administrations and ministers shall be informed. At the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health on 29 June, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the nine competent ministers, including those of Education. It shall state the competent authority for the transposition and implementation of the Directive by Article. We have clearly specified each other's skills. If we hadn't done that, the puzzle could have been very difficult at the end. The agenda is next. We will table as soon as possible a proposal for a royal decree to be deliberated in the Council of Ministers and transposing all the elements of the directive into Royal Decree No 78. The publication and entry into force of the Directive will then take place before 18 January 2016, which is the deadline imposed by the Directive. During this period, we will continue discussions with the Federal Council of Nursing, the General Union of Nurses of Belgium and other interested parties in the sector. I would add that other problems have to be solved. Indeed, at present we have nurses who have been trained at different levels. Nevertheless, we must try to keep staff in our hospitals because we still need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u93	The revision of Decree No 78 in a more comprehensive manner may be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u94	Madam Minister, thank you. I think it is a good point to have a clear agreement on the responsibilities of the nine Ministers of Health and the two Ministers of Higher Education. Indeed, it is not so simple and sometimes everyone can have an interpretation, rightly, but which is not necessarily that of another. This agreement will certainly speed up and facilitate things for the future. It is important that you continue to work together, as you have two interlocutors of choice and value: the General Union of Nurses of Belgium, whose representativeness is very broad and the expertise is proven, and the Federal Council of Nurse Art, for which my comment will be identical. You can really rest on them. The timing of the implementation of the directive is tight, and I understand that you are committed to it. The issue of training and qualifications is an urgent one, but it goes well beyond – you will agree – because it is necessary to prepare for the future of the profession and to define the place and role of nurses, who are already important, but who are going to grow further in view of the increasing acute and chronic care. Nor do I forget their contribution in terms of prevention. The construction site is vast. We therefore need a great ambition in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u95	I am satisfied with your answer, Madam Minister. So I am not going to chat indefinitely and prefer to align myself with Mrs Fonck's reply, which I find very judicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u96	Madam President, Madam Minister, I asked you a written question earlier on this subject and also the Doctor's Newspaper reported on 5 June. Basically, against every indication, radiologists charge 130 euros for an additional Dopplersonography, next to a mammography. Assuming two to three such investigations per day, the additional annual costs amount to around EUR 40 000 per radiologist. Given the limited time available, I will not go into the clinical details and confine myself to the following questions, Madam Secretary. Have you started an investigation or are you planning to have this investigated? Will you take any action? If so, which one? What was not covered in the article in the Doctor's Newspaper was that the fraud is committed much more in Wallonia than in Flanders. Are you planning targeted actions to the Walloon fraudulent radiologists? Could this situation not be avoided or resolved by a revision of the nomenclature for ultrasounds? Does it still take sufficient account of technological progress and the complexity of performance? In your opinion, is it still interesting to retain a separate refund for the Doppler investigation, which is actually part of the ultrasound? Do you have any plans to change this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u97	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as promised following your previous question, I have asked the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV to order an investigation into the problem you have identified. I have been told that this investigation will take place, but that it will take a few months. It goes without saying that I will not anticipate the measures that can be taken. I shall await the outcome of the inquiry for the sake of politeness. As soon as the result is known, you will find out. Then we shall draw the appropriate conclusions. As you know, I am going for an efficient and effective use of every euro, including in health care. I asked for an investigation first, after your alert, to take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u98	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u99	Madam Minister, denturists have been in Belgium for a few years asking for recognition, which is already the case in many European countries. Their arguments include that, if dentals share their ability to measure removable dental prostheses with trained denturists, the upcoming capacity problem in oral care could be alleviated. Dentists are not always available for this because denturists would often be more expensive than a dentist, would not have the necessary medical knowledge and do not follow up the patients. My questions to you are therefore the following, Madam Secretary. Are you currently having conversations or are you planning talks with the denturists about their recognition in the near future? Are the professional associations VVT and VBT involved in the talks? What is your position on the recognition of denturists?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u100	Mrs Van Camp, there are currently no talks with the denturists about their recognition. It's a little difficult, too. According to an opinion of the Dental Council on dental professions, there is no need for the Council to recognise the profession of denturist as such for various reasons. For example, the need for removable prostheses is reduced by improving awareness of the need for prevention and regular dental visits, which we also seek. There is therefore no point in creating a new recognised care profession for removable teeth, a medical device that is used less and less. In addition, the difficulty of prosthetic treatment increases due to the ageing of the population and the associated polymorbidity. These patients need medically trained practitioners, something that does not offer the existing denturist training. Research has also shown that five years after the introduction of the denturist's profession in a Canadian province the cost of a dentist's prosthesis was the same, but that patient satisfaction was higher with the dentist. Appropriately designed and hygienic practice cannot be economically feasible if it is only useful for treatment with removable prostheses. The profession would be eligible as a competent helper, under the supervision of a dentist. We take this into account in the revision of the Royal Decree No. 78. The association of Flemish dentists (VVT) and the association of Belgian dentists (VBT) are part of the Council of Dentistry as professional associations and are certainly involved in the discussions on the subject in this capacity. We are prepared to receive them in the context of the reform of CSR No. 78, in which we want to accommodate other healthcare professions. We do want them to work under surveillance. There is also a demand for dental assistants. We are prepared to include that at the same time. Again, we're aiming for fewer prosthetics. It is always better to keep your own teeth as long as possible and take good care of them. We see a tendency among people, but unfortunately not yet with everyone. The dental care up to 18 years is completely free. Hopefully, in the long run, this will result in teeth remaining longer and less prostheses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u101	We're on the same page. The authority to take oral care must be with the dentist at all times. We are very pleased that the two associations are always involved in these discussions through the Council of Dentistry and that their opinions are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u102	Minister, in 2013, just under 600 tonnes of drugs were destroyed due to, among other things, the inadequacy of certain packagings with prescribed treatments. The management of this waste obviously represents heavy expenditure for the pharmaceutical sector, since the incineration of waste, for example, is entirely covered by the pharmaceutical industry. It would cost more than € 100,000 in 2013, according to pharma.be. As you know, since April 1st, the pricing of drugs administered in "oral-solid" form, in nursing homes (MRS) and nursing homes (MRSA), is done at the unit. Only medicines consumed are then charged. The objective of the measure taken during the previous parliamentary term will enable INAMI to save around EUR 10 million. Unit pricing is therefore a measure that saves patients, the pharmaceutical industry and also INAMI, which avoids waste and is part of a sustainable development approach. According to some, extending the sale to single-mindedness to all citizens would therefore reduce waste, improve consumption and avoid self-medication in the same way. In France, a pilot project is currently under way in about 100 voluntary pharmacies where the sale of antibiotics is tested at the unit level. Minister, do you consider it appropriate to generalize the sale of drugs to individuals, or at least expand the measure that applies to nursing homes for seniors at home? Is a pilot project like the one currently being carried out in France possible at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u103	Mr Frédéric, in answer to your question, the per-unit pricing of medicines issued by the public official pharmacist is effectively limited to the delivery of "oral-solid" medicines to MRS residents, MRSA. I would like to make it clear that only unit-based pricing, not unit-based delivery, is mandatory. This measure is a first step in encouraging the preparation of individual medication, which has advantages in terms of rational consumption and public health. An extension of the scope and/or generalisation of the preparation of individual medication (PMI) can only be considered after an assessment of the outcome of this measure and in consultation with all actors in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u104	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I hear correctly, there is no opposition to this measure. On the contrary, there is support for the approach after consultation and evaluation with the sector! I take note of that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u105	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u106	Madam Minister, you have partially replied to my written question that you agree with me that we need a registration in order to get a complete picture and that by the end of 2015 you would make a proposal for a minimum data set to be registered, beyond the limits of competence. I would nevertheless like to ask you about the federal information you have at your disposal, in other words the part of the use of care that is visible through national health insurance. I have four partial questions. How many children and young people with mental health problems are currently being cared for and supervised according to the national health insurance figures? How many of these children and young people are waiting for this moment in one place? Is the reception and guidance well distributed geographically? How many acute hospital beds could be eligible for change, according to the federally available statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u107	Mrs Dedry, the first phase of our new policy is aimed at installing and coordinating these networks. The definition of the persons eligible for these networks has already begun, although the programme law which gives me the funds will be discussed in plenary tomorrow, to tell you that we are moving forward. As regards the second phase, a crisis management programme will also be implemented at the level of each network. Therefore, each network has been asked to complete a model by the end of September 2015 at the latest. That is what is happening in the field where we can really assess the needs. I have always said that implementation will take place in consultation with the field. From 2016 we will go to a third and a fourth phase. There we will work on the realisation of the programmes "Assertive Care" and "Liaison." With regard to the content of the new mental health policy for children and young people, I refer to the presentation that took place in this committee on 26 May. It contains a lot of information about the timetable, but certainly also a detailed presentation of the policy. The RIZIV cannot give figures about the inclusion of children and young people with mental problems in any institution. Indeed, a large part of these institutions are located at the level of the Communities and the Regions. I have therefore requested figures based on the minimum psychiatric data applicable to general and psychiatric hospitals in Belgium. The most recent full figures date from 2012. Then, according to the minimum psychiatric data, 2 155 admissions were registered in a K service or service for the treatment of children and adolescents under 18 years of psychiatric hospitals. There were 2 071 recordings by the psychiatric departments of general hospitals. This is about a ratio of 50.99 % compared with 49.01 %. That's almost fifty-fifty. The difference is 70 patients per year. There were no records of waiting lists in general or psychiatric hospitals. The programming for K-beds in both general and psychiatric hospitals was set at 0.32 beds per thousand children. 371 beds were recognized in the Flemish Community; in Brussels at the level of the Joint Commission there are 120 beds, in the French-speaking Community the number of approved beds is 225. These are historical differences between the Community, which have arisen over many successive years. With the new policy, all governments place the emphasis on avoiding hospitalisations and the intervention of, among other things, multidisciplinary mobile teams at home. For this purpose, however, an equal distribution across the provinces was envisaged. We did not repeat the historical error of drawing out these teams. We have proposed an equal distribution across all provinces. We are fully engaged in the implementation of the additional measures. However, the funds will still have to be voted on in plenary tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u108	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have nothing to add to that for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u109	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp can indeed agree with her similar question on the findings of the civil lab of the King Baudouin Foundation. Madam Secretary, prevention is better than cure. It's also cheaper than cure. And above all, better living is more important than living longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u110	We're gonna live differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u111	That's right. The civilian lab, set up by the King Baudouin Foundation, has produced very interesting results and the RIZIV has already promised to take them into account. Will you seize this momentum, too? We would make health insurance better. It is always said that the federal level has no competence in prevention, but that is not entirely true. Should we switch from acute medicine to a medicine that helps patients to avoid problems, it goes beyond the division of powers through the sixth state reform. What's your opinion on the matter? Do you agree with the interesting results of the King Baudouin Foundation? Do you also find it interesting or important that citizens, consumers or patients can be involved in the decision-making bodies of the Medicomut? I am thinking of a reform of the mutualities. You can support the Länder in their prevention policies from the federal government. Have you made use of that yet? Could you possibly do that? I am thinking, for example, of the pilot project on mother-child path. Here it could be a possibility. It is reported that the Public Health Office and the RIZIV will soon share the same building. Is this a stepping stone to a merger? I am often sent from the locker to the wall when I ask questions to Minister Borsus or Minister Marghem. They have a lot of powers that can have a major impact on health. You too have already referred me to these ministers. All that has to do with the environment and health is pinged back and forth in this government. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u112	Madam Minister, this question is also part of the new findings of the civil lab of the King Baudouin Foundation. The RIZIV expressed the will to take these results into account. What is that supposed to mean? I would also like to refer to my questions at the beginning of the legislative term, in particular to work with genuinely established QALYScientists at the Committee on Medicinal Products. You then referred to this civil consultation. Citizens' consultation clearly shows that a better life than a longer life is more important. A fixed QALY could therefore be used perfectly as a starting base. Will you do something with that? The RIZIV also stated in the article that a priority list for next year is currently being worked on. Is that list ready yet? Can we look at the list? How was the list updated in response to the results of the civilian lab? Could you give a specific overview of the cases that have been modified or rewritten in the light of the results of the civilian lab? What are the factors involved in drawing up that list? How are they weighed? How much do the results of the civilian lab weigh on this? For my final question, I fully agree with what Mr Dedry has just said. Another point that really came up from the civilian lab was raising the budget for prevention, in order to put more emphasis on it. In this context, are you considering transferring money from your budget to the Länder so that they can work more and better on prevention, which will ultimately also save the federal treasury the necessary savings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u113	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, first and foremost, the Burgerlabo initiative, which guides citizens to reimbursements in health care services provided by the King Baudouin Foundation, gives an insight into how citizens and patients want health policy to be implemented. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 30 March, the Federal Government, together with the Länder, reiterated its commitment to implement the Integrated Care for chronically ill, on the one hand, and to complete the prevention policy, on the other. These initiatives are closely in line with the findings of the civilian lab. One of the objectives of the Inter-Kabinette working group on chronic disease and prevention is to reach a protocol agreement on prevention. This agreement will regulate the more early detection of cancer, neonatal screening and the need for healthy food. I will give you an answer with regard to the various powers. If we want a healthy diet, it will of course be a concern not only for me, but also for the respective ministers responsible for agriculture and for the environment which, as you know, exist in all sizes and colours. In addition, I repeat that citizens aged between 45 and 74 can contact their general practitioner for a preventive consultation in the framework of a global medical file PLUS. The aim of the plan Integrated care for chronically ill is just to put the patient more at the heart of health policy. In that respect, we are really going to a paradigmashif. This plan includes a model in which appropriate guidance and care planning will take precedence over reactive occurrence in an acute condition. This can be done through early, multidisciplinary care planning in which the patient is central. This approach guarantees access to customised care. Also at the end of life, this advanced care planning becomes more important. This may include, where the patient is eligible for palliative care, the discussion of euthanasia and the exclusion of therapeutic persistence. At present, the patient organisations are represented in the Observatory for the chronic diseases in the womb of the RIZIV. Their role can also be further strengthened in the context of the modernisation of the consultation model. You know that the patient domes will be represented on the board of directors of the Knowledge Centre. This has already been included in the law on various provisions. They also receive funding for their satellites to be represented on the ground and to be able to carry out their tasks. This is a significant increase in their operating budget of EUR 250 000 per satellite. I can only point out that if health policy is to be implemented, and the cooperation of my fellow Members at federal or sub-state level is needed, we must work through the appropriate consultation procedures within the framework of the Council of Ministers and the Inter-Ministerial Conferences. At these Inter-Ministerial Conferences it is decided who should take on which part of the task. In fact, we will have to act in this way more and more often. We have had two Inter-Ministerial Conferences. We have put a great deal of work into this, and no conference has taken place for a year. We are therefore in the process of catching up. We are trying to organise two Inter-Ministerial Conferences this year so that progress can finally be made on a number of dossiers, in cooperation with the honourable Members from the Länder. You cannot believe the immobilism it produces in the field of health care if there are no Inter-Ministerial Conferences for a year. We must do something about this in the future. There was no Inter-Ministerial Conference even in current cases for two years. It is not easy or pleasant work for the people on the ground, but one can only work with the instruments that one has. Mrs Van Camp, the Committee on the Prevention of Medicinal Products takes into account the following elements when formulating its proposal on reimbursement: the therapeutic value of the proprietary medicinal product, both in terms of morbidity, mortality and, of course, quality of life; the price of the proprietary medicinal product and the reimbursement basis proposed by the applicant; the importance of the proprietary medicinal product in medical practice in terms of therapeutic and social needs; the budgetary impact on health insurance and the relationship between the cost of compulsory health insurance and therapeutic value. The amount per QALY is therefore part of the whole of the CTG evaluation criteria. The quality of life can also be found in these criteria. In itself, these are not, therefore, decisive factors in the preparation of the proposal that is being delivered to me, but they are already being considered. So I do not think it is necessary to change these evaluation criteria at this stage. However, the CTG is involved in the reflection on how these criteria in their application can be even better adapted to certain insights, as given by the civil lab. In accordance with Article 25 of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, applications for registration on the list of unanswered medical needs, unmedical needs, shall be submitted before 15 May 2015. Following this, the General Council should establish by 31 October 2015 and after examining the medical and economic impact, the list of unrequited medical needs to be maintained for 2016. This evaluation will also be based on the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Temporary Assistance and of the College of Medical Directors. If this list is drawn up, i.e. before the end of October 2015, it will be published on the RIZIV website. The Advisory Committee on Temporary Benefits for the Use of a Medicinal Product is also aware of the conclusions of the Civil Lab of the King Baudouin Foundation. In collaboration with the Knowledge Centre, she is also currently developing a methodology for setting priorities for medical needs in order to draw up the list of unrequited medical needs. A number of elements, including the study of similar methods, are taken into account in Belgium and abroad, of which the civil lab is an example. This method of setting priorities is not yet final. In any event, given that these are unrequited medical needs, the opinion of citizens expressed through the civil lab will be taken into account. In the womb of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, a group is also working on integrated care for chronically ill, with prevention as one of the focus areas. It also examines the extent to which joint initiatives can be taken after the sixth state reform, for example in the area of organised prevention. During Marc Justaert's retirement, after his career at CM, I called in my speech the sickness funds to set up joint prevention actions. At present, a sickness fund does a preventive action in a given direction and six months later, another sickness fund takes action in a different direction. I think that could be even better organised. Better coordination of prevention or sensitisation could, for example, be achieved with breast cancer screening and rotavirus vaccination. However, there are countless other examples to give. I think that we can use the resources there much more efficiently, when the hands are beaten up, with the aim of improving the overall health of all our citizens. In terms of sensitisation and prevention actions, I do not think that health insurance funds can catch each other much. As far as your question is concerned, I would like to explain to you, after the budget discussions, what a large area it contains: how many reforms, how many things that have been historically underfunded. I am thinking, for example, of the vast area of mental health care, where we need to add more than one tooth, where a denturist could add a whole set of teeth. To meet those needs, I must have my hands full. The financial flows relating to the distribution of powers are governed by successive state reforms and related financing laws. I have no need to change anything about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u114	Madam President, Minister, I understand that working better through the Interministerial Conference is very important and I welcome it. Now the same thing within the Federal Council of Ministers. Your colleague Marghem told me in committee that she wants to do something about it, because she herself is ashamed to have to send me from the locker to the wall. It would put this on the agenda of the Council of Ministers to tackle these environmental problems together with the three or four ministers involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u115	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u116	Madam President, Minister, I too welcome your answer, except for my last question. I believe that investing in prevention in the long term would generate the necessary profits, but perhaps we can talk about this again within four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u117	This is the whole difference between a health policy and a curative policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u118	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Capoen's 5406 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u119	The maintenance and operation of scans, both CT and NMR, are provisionally reserved for hospitals. To date, they cannot be performed in an extramural setting. A CT scan may be performed outside the hospital, but it will not be refunded. In practice, that is the same thing. However, it is not only aimed at extramuralization and dehospitalization, but also at reducing exposure to radiation. I would like to point out that programming in itself should be separate from the setting where investigations are carried out. That can't really be an argument against my statement. In a hospital setting, the cost of the same CT or NMR research is higher anyway due to personnel costs. The waiting times are also often there. Allowing a CT and NMR study in the extramural setting would not only reduce the price, but could also reduce waiting times. For example, by allowing NMRs in private practices, even a further shift could be achieved from CT to NMR to further reduce radiation exposure. Furthermore, private practices work completely independently and do not benefit from planning further interventions or investigations if they are not needed. After all, they work on referral from the GP. In the light of these findings, we see that CT and NMR studies can also be applied in the extramural setting. What is your position on allowing extramural CT and NMR examinations, without releasing the principle of programming and subject to referral to prescription by, for example, the GP? Why can CT and NMR studies take place in hospital satellite centres? That's basically the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u120	According to current legislation, CT and NMR devices can only be used in hospitals. This choice was made to avoid the proliferation of these devices, for budgetary reasons and because of the necessary multidisciplinary embedding of the devices. Hospitals' satellite centres are also covered by the hospital sector. If we compare it with other countries, international statistics do indeed show that the radiation tax at population level is much higher in our country. This is due to the overuse of certain radiological studies, especially conventional radiography and CT studies. In 2010, the federal government founded BELMIP, the Belgian Medical Imaging Platform. BELMIP supports various initiatives for the more efficient use of the different imaging techniques in order to reduce the radiation burden on the population and improve the quality of care provision. In 2014, a protocol agreement on medical imaging was signed by the various governments. It was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 26 June 2014. The protocol agreement agreed to create a register for heavy medical equipment and to establish an enforcement policy in order to control the overall range of medical imaging. It is intended to provide for a registration of the heavy medical equipment included in the list of heavy medical equipment, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014. The future enforcement policy will be based on that registration. In the protocol agreement, the various authorities have committed themselves to working on this. Following the protocol agreement, the programming of the NMR devices was also modified. This was also the case in the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 25 October 2006 setting the maximum number of services in which a magnetic resonance tomograph may be used. The publication in the Belgian Official Journal dates from 8 August 2014. The increased number of NMR devices discussed here today should allow for the substitution of the CT devices and thus reduce the radiation for our population. In addition to the substitution of CT devices by NMR devices, the effective application of the medical imaging guidelines by both prescribers and radiologists is a priority for BELMIP. Day-to-day practice shows that the directives are still not sufficiently known. The application of the guidelines will allow the exact application of appropriate tests to be prescribed and carried out, so that radiation can also be reduced for the patient. The extension of the NMR programming has been implemented with budget neutrality as an explicit condition. Moreover, the protocol agreement stipulates that a subsequent disc will not be released until it is demonstrated that budget neutrality has been achieved, as I have answered a question from Mr Frédéric. An initial evaluation can only happen if the new devices work. At the moment I have not received any new recognition from my fellow Members from the Länder, but I know that they are working on it. I have also read an article in the newspaper about the way in which the six NMRs are being distributed in Wallonia, but my services have not yet received anything. The principle of budget neutrality is extremely important, because the budget for medical imaging is already a very large item of expenditure. We fear that the existence of extramural devices could make the situation untenable, because a supply restriction cannot be achieved in an extramural setting. Monitoring the effective and correct application of the directives and compliance with quality standards is not easy. This is why governments are currently working on an enforcement policy. The impact on the radiation load of the patient could also allow for a change in future policy. The FPS Public Health has also set up an action around the slogan "Radiographies" are not holiday snapshots. We must protect ourselves from the known mutagenic effect of radiation. In particular, in the case of successive investigations, radiation could present a reasonable risk to public health. I don't want to cause a panic, but if an RX or CT isn't really necessary, I wouldn't let them either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u121	That is why it could be done just after referral by the general practitioner. Then the use would not increase, because then it only happens on indication. I'm assuming that general practitioners don't prescribe such things for their pleasure either. I hope that this can be addressed in the October evaluation, as shown by a previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u122	Madam President, I shall confine myself to the question myself, since I have spoken about this several times. The problem is that the Dutch guard post Terranova is extinct. The articles about this show that the RIZIV is not eager to finance him yet. We see, however, that in the new guard post that was set up, bilingualism is much more difficult to achieve than was thought. We are in a situation where bilingualism is absolutely not guaranteed, which was a requirement. You yourself confirmed that concern in a letter to both general practitioners. I regret that in that letter you are shifting responsibility for the fiasco from you to the circles. You say that they are responsible for guaranteeing bilingualism, although this situation would not have occurred if the RIZIV had not unilaterally changed the rules governing the reorganisation of guard services. I have already referred in previous questions to changing 70 % assent to 50 percent consent for de facto the same vote. The next point is the coordinator who does not know Dutch. According to the latest reports, she would now take a two-week rush course in Dutch. In summary, a perfectly trilingual watch service and a perfectly trilingual watch station will be shut down for the benefit of a watch service and a watch station, which you yourself state does not provide sufficient guarantees for proper, high-quality care in your own language for Dutch-speaking patients in Brussels. The only thing that stands in the way of a successful cooperation supported by all general practitioners is guarantees for a Dutch-language service. But that turns out to be a bridge too far. Can you guarantee that Terranova will continue to receive the necessary funds from the RIZIV, until the Athéna watch station offers sufficient guarantees on a Dutch-language service? Bilingualism was a prerequisite for the financing of Athéna. It can't be guaranteed. What consequences do you have for this? Will the funding be reviewed? You have formally confirmed that the guidelines of the new Guard Service Garde Bruxelloise-Brussels Watchkeeping do not provide sufficient guarantees for a Dutch-speaking service. Are you willing to assume your responsibility in this respect in order to demand the necessary guarantees on a Dutch-language service, prior to any cooperation? Do you think that BHAK's decision regarding the reorganisation of the watchkeeping service is valid? This is due to the fact that a reorganisation of a watchkeeping service generally requires 70% of the votes. This quorum was required at the first vote, but the second vote was the same as the first. Do you think it is enough that the coordinator, who has been working for the project for six years but still doesn't speak Dutch, is suddenly taking a rush course in Dutch? Do you think this is credible? From my colleague, Liesbet Dhaene, from Brussels, I am told that the Brussels competent college members, your fellow party member, Guy Vanhengel and FDF lecturer Didier Gosuin, formally support the project and regret any attempt to delay it. Have you contacted them yet to inform them of your concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u123	Mrs Van Camp, you are partly asking the same questions as in your question No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I have given the necessary explanation as to how it went. I don't have to come back to that. I like that you follow up on the problems you mentioned, but not that you always repeat all the questions. My answer now is no different than the answer I have already given to your oral question on the validity of the BHAK decisions concerning the reorganisation of the watchkeeping service. In reply to your first question, I can tell you that it is primarily up to the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds to draw up proposals on the financing of initiatives relating to the organisation of the GPs. With regard to Brussels, it is clear that a Dutch-language service is needed at every stage of funding. I will also follow up on the fact that, in its decisions on each stage, the said committee will monitor the requirement to also provide services in the Dutch language. It is in that spirit that I have written my letters, precisely to warn that I will watch over them. This applies in the same way to the general practitioner's post, which is mentioned in your second question, and whose name has perhaps been chosen a little unlucky these days. Athéna is no guarantee of success. On the global level and in relation to your third question, I would ask the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds that the possible decisions on the further financing of the global project should include additional mechanisms to achieve genuine bilingualism within the framework of cooperation within the Guardian Office of Bruxelloise-Brussels. The coordinator of the global project is now taking an intensive course in Dutch. I do not know how intensive or limited that course is, but the real bilingualism of coordination must be ensured. Bilingualism was one of the conditions for recruitment imposed on policy-makers at the time. I am therefore surprised that it took six years for the lady to take the course. The people in my policy cell and I are following this file carefully. There are also contacts with policy-makers of the other competent authorities. In general, I think it is important that there is a well-functioning watchkeeping service in Brussels. There must be bilingualism for all the things that work in Brussels. I have written these letters because of the need to change bilingualism. When I hear it like that, I would have to learn Dutch from the coordinator and I would have to make sure that every doctor on watch can take a language test there. I want to do a lot and take a lot of responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the guards to ensure that. It is the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds that oversees this. We have the funding in our hands. First of all, we need a well-functioning GP watch service in Brussels. The failure is one of the reasons why people go to the already overwhelmed hospitals and emergency services. I am very sensitive to the linguistic aspects. I've taken responsibility and written those letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u124	That is absolutely not enough for us. It is very easy to say that the guards are responsible for this. We do not agree with that. That service is indeed mandatory bilingual. It is up to the Minister to create the necessary framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u125	I told you. What do you want me to do? You're not listening. I'm just saying I put it on watch.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u126	By letter. There are no guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u127	I'd also like to do it by tammem, if that's all right with you. I wrote that letter and informed my fellow Members about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u128	It is your responsibility to ensure that this bilingualism is there. He's not here right now. Sending a simple letter might ease your conscience, but not ours. We know that there is no bilingualism in practice. You do have the tools in your hands. You can review the funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u129	I've already heard today that I'm too Flemish. Now I hear I'm not Flemish enough. I therefore believe that, as in asylum and migration, I am heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u130	It is not more Flemish or less Flemish. It is about the bilinguality of the watchkeeping services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u131	Everyone has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u132	That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u133	You are well aware that the guard service of the Flemish general practitioners was no longer able to sustain the work in Brussels. Those people had no life left. More and more doctors dropped out. That watchman couldn't stand it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u134	That's right. We are also aware of this. This does not mean that we are opposed to cooperation, but this cooperation must provide guarantees of bilingualism. We note that this is not the case in practice. You acknowledge that by means of that letter. We are not convinced that sending that letter will change that. This requires a more substantial measure. We can only regret that they are not being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, questions No 5455 by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and questions No 5508, No 5509, No 5510 and No 5511 are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u136	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that this Parliament has a regulation and that if we reach this late hour, it is because the rules are not respected. I very much appreciate the liveliness of our young colleagues, including members of the majority to control the government. But I would point out that the Rules of Procedure provide for a time limit of two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply. If we do not abide by the rules, Madam President, it is not surprising that some colleagues are moving into the background. As far as I am concerned, I shall in any case not exceed my speaking time. Minister, according to a report issued by the Vlerick Healthcare Management Centre, if the way in which innovative medicines are reimbursed is not changed, the Belgian patient risks being deprived of one third of the benefits promised by the arrival of a wave of so-called "targeted" treatments whose particularity is to associate a cancer drug with a detection test. As these new drugs are much more expensive, they could significantly increase the drug budget of INAMI. Experts estimate that this budget could almost double within five years, rising to 9.5%, or nearly 500 million. According to these experts, these drugs will not be available to patients without an increase in this budget or a change in the conditions for reimbursement of medicines. Minister, have you read this report? What conclusions do you draw? Are you considering measures in this context? Do you consider it necessary to take account of the developments announced? Are new specific measures envisaged in the context of reimbursements of medicinal products? In the context of these treatments where a molecule is associated with a diagnostic test, experts also seem to point out the different time frames available to the reimbursement committee and the diagnostic devices committee. In their view, both claims should be synchronized. What do you think? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u137	Madam President, I am not going to take that criticism. I would like to point out that I have also completed some of the questions within half a minute, and that there are fellow Members who have exceeded their speaking time. I believe the rules apply to everyone. That one question for which I have exceeded my speaking time was on an important subject. You do not have to judge us, Mr Frédéric. It's up to the chairman to guard the time. My question is actually the same: the new cancer cures. Researchers estimate that by 2020 around 500 million additional funds will be needed to finance the new funds. However, this would be partly a saving, because it is estimated that these new resources could save between 208 and 461 million in other sectors of health care. Madam Secretary, do you think those figures are correct? What budgets will have to fall in order to continue to pay for innovative medicines such as the new generation of cancer medicines, on which we have recently held a round table? Do you have a plan ready to reduce or prevent excessive cost increases in the future? What does that plan look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u138	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, Mrs Van Camp, the Vlerick study has examined, in the field of oncology, what medicines we can reasonably expect in Belgium within five years. In this context, he studied therapeutic drugs and diagnostics as we are increasingly moving towards personalized medicine. The objective of the study was to verify whether and under what conditions the innovations we can expect will be financially affordable within the framework of the health insurance budgets. I am myself negotiating a multi-year framework for the benefit of the patient. The aim of this multi-annual pact is to anticipate the innovations of tomorrow, precisely so that all patients can be guaranteed that they will continue to have access to the most innovative therapies in oncology but also in other syndromes. I also use a study to develop a budget framework until 2019. To manage, you have to anticipate and anticipate. The Vlerick study recommends that future reimbursement decisions for therapies and diagnostics be harmonized. This aspect is also addressed in the negotiations. It is true that we must ensure access to innovative medicines for Belgian patients, including during a budgetaryly difficult period. According to the Vlerick study, the usual price reductions in the conventional drug budget make it possible to repay 66% of the foreseeable innovations within five years. Indeed, the study estimates the growth in expenditure over five years on innovative oncological diagnostics and therapies at an average of between 0.89 and 2.05%. Therefore, the study suggests taking into account the lower expenditures estimated at $208 to $461 million over five years in other care expenditures. This is also in line with the recommendations of the study and with my commitment to a more transversal or holistic approach to the budget calculation in the future, in that we really need to get out of silomenality, so that less expenditure in other sectors, such as hospitalization and surgery, could also be offset. The negotiations on that multi-annual framework began in November 2014. We're finalizing them. I can tell you that the figures and conclusions of the two studies, those of Vlerick and ours, are keeping pace. Everyone realizes that it is difficult to plan four or five years ahead very concretely, especially in such a dynamic sector as pharmacology. They give particularly interesting indications and suggestions, but reality may be different. We must also be aware of this and take it into account in the negotiations. Legally, budgets should be drawn up each year. Therefore, I will consult with all those involved on the guarantee of maximum access for all patients in Belgium to innovative medicines in the context of affordability of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u139	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister very briefly. I think she's aware of reality. It is essential to anticipate. We are talking about innovative medicines in the fight against cancer. The Chair, your representative and I recently participated in a conference on hepatitis C in the Congress Hall. We learned that some innovative medicines allow in fifteen years, if my memory is good, to increase from 10% of healing rate to more than 90%. However, the patients in front of whom we found ourselves – we who, for the most part, are not doctors – have raised that the major problem remains, not the difficulty of finding the right medicine, but its price.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u140	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u141	Minister, the Supreme Council of Health (SHC) has just revised its nutrition recommendations for vitamins and trace elements. It has also set the maximum amounts for the addition of these two types of nutrients to food or their marketing as food supplements. The recommendations identify the limits of a balanced diet of these various nutrients for the various population groups envisaged (children, adolescents, pregnant and nursing women, the elderly) and describe the various ways in which this can be achieved, including through dietary supplements. However, the CSS particularly warns against the use of excessive amounts of these nutrients, whether through fortified foods or inadequate nutritional supplements. It also denounces the abuse of certain unsubstantiated practices which may ultimately prove to be very dangerous to health. For iron, for example, the recommended amount has been reduced from 20 to 15 mg per day because current scientific evidence indicates that a smaller intake appears sufficient. Yet, according to experts, "many supplements deliver mega-doses, like 65 or 525 mg! They should therefore only be used under strict medical supervision." With regard to vitamin D, it also appears that caution should be exercised. According to the same experts, "the vitamin D intake is already done through exposure to the sun and through food, where foods enriched with vitamin D are available. The mega-doses available on the market are therefore a danger and we must also be wary of unjustified promises, such as an effect against cancer or cardiovascular health, which are not proven." Have you ever heard of these new recommendations? Is there currently control over these dietary supplements? Could some of them be banned on the market if their values were unreasonable with respect to the new CSS recommendations? Are you considering further informing citizens, pharmacists and general practitioners about best practices in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u142	Mr. Frédéric, I have taken note with interest of the new nutrition recommendations of the Higher Health Council (SHC) on vitamins and trace elements. The quantities of these nutrients in food supplements and in fortified foods are regulated by the Royal Decree of 3 March 1992. These products must be notified to the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, which verifies the nutrient content specified in the notification file. The maximum levels set by this Order will be adjusted on the basis of new conclusions of the CSS. Products bringing daily doses that may lead to a health risk will be prohibited. As far as controls are concerned, they are the responsibility of the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA), whose management is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Agriculture Willy Borsus. In addition to the communications on these new recommendations made by the CSS, the new provisions will be published on the SPF website and will be the subject of a specific update. Despite the fact that these are two different competences, we will also publish them on our website in order to make citizens aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u143	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u144	Question No 5011 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u145	Madam Minister, if I ask you this question, it is because Belgium is lagging behind other countries regarding access to a class of specific analgesics for paroxysmal pain in cancer patients, fentanyl citrate transmucosal. Paroxystic pain is non-predictive, very intense and short-lived pain, which quickly reaches a maximum threshold of pain, sometimes in less than two minutes. They take an average of 30 to 45 minutes. The problem is that the alternatives administered are only effective after 45 minutes. In fact, they act too late compared to such particularly intense pains, pains that one wants to understand and try to eliminate a maximum, especially in the context of palliative care and accompaniment of cancer patients. Several cases have been submitted to the Commission de réimbursement des Medicinal Products (CRM) for reimbursement of this treatment and each time this request has been refused. According to the information given to me, this is mainly because this treatment is compared to the usual analgesic treatments and therefore seems too expensive compared to the others. It would appear that the specificity of the rapid action of this medicinal product is not taken into account in the comparative measures. Minister, you are aware of the matter since you have already asked questions about it, including a 2010 question to Minister Onkelinx. So you know that this is a complex but very relevant subject. Are you considering and is it possible to review the CRM opinion? I met with the manufacturers who tell me that it is impossible for them to reduce the cost and price in line with what the CRM is considering. So we find ourselves in a paradoxical situation but with patients who are suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u146	Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your question. You're referring to one of my 2010 questions. I didn't know it's been five years. In the past, several dossiers have been submitted to the Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products (CRM) relating to the reimbursement of fast-acting opioids in the treatment of paroxysmal cancer pain. These files received negative advice from CRM for a variety of well-founded scientific reasons. In some cases, there is a complete lack of data from patients with cancer-related pain. The request was for cancer-related pain but was very rarely included in clinical studies, i.e. fewer than 10 cancer patients were included in the data collected. As there are not enough, this is not significant. Some new drugs have been able to show very little difference and are probably not clinically relevant at the beginning of treatment compared to the preparations already available. Finally, in a number of studies, no comparison was made with an active comparator available. However, there are already fast-acting opioid preparations based on morphine, hydromorphone and oxycodone for the treatment of paroxystic pain. The added value of the new medicinal product should therefore be scientifically demonstrated by equianalgesic comparison with an existing preparation. Moreover, at the time of the introduction, there was still much uncertainty as to how the exact and patient-specific titration of such fast-acting opioid preparation was to take place. Scientific evidence on this subject was only available later. The MRC submitted proposals to produce randomized studies with an active comparator in cancer patients, which would serve as the basis for a validated refund file. However, this suggestion has never been implemented. I invite them to accept this offer, which will not only be helpful to patients, but will also provide us with the data necessary for reimbursement. We cannot take a position until we have been provided with any new elements. But here, it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u147	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that they will be attentive to it and that they will not fail to follow it up and argue. I will not fail to relay your recommendation. What is surprising is that it is taken into account, available and reimbursed in other European countries, but not at home. This may be due to our working methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u148	Question No 5589 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is transformed into a written question. The same applies to questions No 5590 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and No 5608 by Mrs Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u149	Minister, the Centre for Perinatal Epidemiology (CEPIP) and the Studicentrum voor Perinatal Epidemiology (SPE) aim to "create a permanent and comprehensive register of perinatal data". Their reports are public and therefore accessible in a comprehensive manner for births in different parts of the country. However, it seems impossible to have access to these practices carried out by each hospital. It is important that patients and health professionals have access to practices in different hospitals, including delivery. Indeed, the use of the activation of childbirth, the practice of episiotomy, caesareans, etc., all the acts carried out according to the good will of the doctors, because these are the usual practices of some hospitals, all this has an influence on the way in which births take place. This should also be of interest to future mothers, so that they can know these practices and choose the hospital centre with knowledge. Would it be possible to make the annual report available to each hospital on an individual basis, thereby identifying its practices? How can parents be made aware of KCE's physiological birth recommendations and made more accessible to future parents? Can one imagine an awareness campaign about physiological birth, because the majority of parents find it normal to trigger the birth, to have a peridural, usual practices promoted by a large number of gynaecologists? This means valuing and defending a greater place for midwives, who are responsible for accompanying physiological deliveries, with gynaecologists devoting themselves to more difficult deliveries. Do you have an agenda and strategy in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u150	Mrs Gerkens, I share your concern about the overmedicalization of perinatal care. A proper publication of the data by the SPE and the CEPIP may help to enable pregnant women and their partners to make an informed choice. However, as you know, both the Perinatal Epidemiology Centre and the Studicentrum voor Perinatal Epidemiology are administratively and financially supported by the Walloon Region, the French Community, the Joint Community Commission and the Flemish Community. It is therefore to these Community and regional bodies that you should be addressed as a matter of priority. A publication of encrypted data must necessarily be accompanied by a valid interpretation in terms of content because the risk of misinterpretation is real. I am thinking, in particular, of the caesarean figures of the university centres. WHO is in the process of developing a guideline – Robson's classification system – which can help to better interpret Caesarean rates based on the characteristics of parturients. Caution should therefore be exercised in the interpretation and comparison of this type of numerical data. My strategic cell carefully examines what actions can be taken to reduce the medicalization of perinatal care, whether it be prenatal, perinatal or postnatal care. The update of the KCE Prenatal Care Directive has recently been published. WHO has also published a report on the abuse of caesarean section. There are various Midlife-led care initiatives in Belgium, in which the midwife monitors normal pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum care in close collaboration with doctors and re-addressing when indicated. These initiatives will be further examined in light of the contribution they can make to the reduction of high levels of medical intervention during childbirth. In the meantime, I note that various initiatives have been implemented such as the Normale geborte campaign: your vistregels voor moeders, van de Vlaamse Organisatie voor Vroedvrouwen or the "Manifeste pour la naissance respectée", an initiative of Francophone non-governmental associations. So there is a lot of movement on the premises. At the federal level, there is the development of quality projects and possibly accreditations to improve the care process in hospitals, especially in maternity. One example is the WHO/UNICEF Baby-Friendly Hospital initiative, which awards an international label to maternity mothers who have developed quality practices in maternal support, information and child feeding. You also know that we are evaluating good practices, getting in touch with midwives and gynaecologists working on multidisciplinary teams. In our country, by comparing with neighbouring countries, England or the Netherlands, we see that there has been a medicalization of birth for years. There is a need to review the quality of care provided to mothers and children. Moreover, we must be very careful. The quality of care is the most important point, but we are not convinced that the presence of a whole team of gynaecologists is always necessary. As I always say, pregnancy is a sign of good health, not disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u151	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I think there are indeed initiatives that it is interesting to support. With the policies of reimbursement, organization of hospital structures or other, these initiatives can be supported and perhaps generalised. I agree with you when you say that you have to be able to give correct readings and interpretations. Hence my idea of using surveys, data that already exist. Perhaps we can use them more cross-sectionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u152	There are centres that specialize in neonatalogy and deal with 28 or 30 weeks of premature pregnancy. Babies are transported to their mother, they are high-risk patients. There are obviously more caesareans, because these babies are not ready to come into the world by the normal route. If the figures for the percentage of caesareans are published, these figures will be very high because all the hospitals around them send these patients to the centre of expertise. These figures must be interpreted with knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u153	That's right. But there are data collections. It would therefore be silly to carry out other collections. The information that is available must be used and then made available intelligently in order to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u154	Questions Nos 5649 and 5682 by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Joined Questions Nos 5729 by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and 5759 by Mr Benoît Pieboeuf, Question No 5700 by Mr Daniel Senesael, Question No 5740 by Mrs Renate Hufkens, Questions Nos 5749, 5751, 5754, 5792, 5802 and 5803 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Question No 5770 by Mr Philippe Blanchart are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u155	Madam President, thank you for the good cooperation that has prevailed in this committee. I invite you to take stock of all the issues and topics we have dealt with. This commission is very dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-14-54-commissie-ic226x.u156	Before the end of the year, we must bring to fruition the texts that we have begun to work on. Minister, thank you for being here and for making your office available to us as well.
