ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u1	Colleagues, as planned, today we are proceeding with the hearing of Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, President of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. The purpose of this hearing, which has been requested by several of you, is for Mr Vandenbroucke to explain to us the Commission's proposals and the supplementary opinion which he gave in response to the Minister's request. Mr Vandenbroucke will put all this in a current perspective. After that, we are going to have a debate with Professor Vandenbroucke. Afterwards you will have the opportunity to ask your questions. An integral report is being drawn up on this part-session so that we can read all the comments in full. Unless there are any further comments, I would now like to give the floor to Mr Vandenbroucke. We work with a slideshow in PowerPoint. Mr Vandenbroucke has told me that the introduction will take about an hour. Mr Vandenbroucke, I welcome you and I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u2	Mr President, I would like to thank you and the members of the committee for being here at your invitation. I have indeed produced a presentation, but that will require that the screen be lowered. You will find my presentation, both in French and in Dutch, in the back of the room. The secretariat of the committee provided copies. So there is both a version in French and in Dutch. I'll show you the French version on the screen. The first part of my speech will be in Dutch, after which I will switch to French. You will find that in the first part of my speech there are some English terms, because I am based on an English-language report. The translation of these English terms can also be found in the presentation, in particular in the fourth slide. You should not worry about that in this way. First of all, I would like to say something about the documents to which I refer. First of all, I would like to take a look with you at the latest report published by the European Commission in its series Ageing Reports. The last report was published early this month, especially The 2015 Ageing Report. I think that's an interesting report I'd like to look into with you. As I said, for someone who has little time, it is enough to read the first eight pages of it, because it actually contains the essentials. I shall then briefly refer to two notes from the Federal Planning Office, published in February and March. Of course, I will also refer to the two reports published by the Commission on Pension Reform 2020-2040. A first report was published in June 2014 and a second one in April 2015 and of course I will discuss this in detail. I would like to look at three issues in this introduction. Firstly, what can we learn from the European Commission's latest report on ageing and pensions in Europe? Would it be the case, if you read that report, that you may decide that there is no need for reform anymore? I'd like to talk about that, among other things. I would then like to comment in detail on the two opinions published by our committee. I would particularly like to refer to the objective of the reform that we are proposing. So I will not go over the two reports completely, this would take too much time. I would like to talk about the objective that we have in mind. Then I will end my speech with a few slides where I give questions, which I think are important. I am not going to put up with the debate. I would like to highlight what are important questions for me in this discussion. The European Report The 2015 Ageing Report first contains predictions about the evolution of social spending in all European countries. This concerns predictions that take into account all measures taken in different European countries until December 2014. This means, in concrete terms, that these are predictions, including for Belgium the impact of the measures taken by the Di Rupo Government, but not including the measures already announced and taken by the Michael Government. We are looking here at the picture officially presented by the European Commission on the evolution of our social expenditure, should any new decisions be taken after the decisions taken during the previous legislature. I have indicated on this slide how to understand the English terminology used. I am skipping this now, but there is a brief description of how to understand this terminology in English, French or Dutch and what it means. I would like to begin with a statement which at first sight is a little paradoxical. On this drawing, the blue line in the middle is life expectancy at the age of 65, as is thought to develop between today and the year 2060. You can see on that blue line that life expectancy is rising significantly, today about 20 years after the age of 65, on average for men and women. According to this prediction, it rises to close to 24 years. That is a very significant evolution. After all, one must imagine that for pension systems the question is indeed how many years of retirement time we have to cover. From 20 to 24 is 20 percent more, so very significant. You can also see that it is actually just a straight line, a linear trend. That's because it's merely a prophecy. That prediction is purely linear: it rises. We are uncertain about that. I come to the first paradox. Look at the grey line at the bottom, because it's really important. It represents the ratio between the number of people aged 65 and over and the number of people aged 15-64. This is called age dependency, demographic dependency, and that is really important. If you look closely at the grey line, you will see that it is not a straight line up. Older people's dependency rises, but ends up somewhere on a plateau, after the end of the 1940s. If you look at it a little more closely, however, you do not see that very well here, then you can actually see that it is a kind of S-formula. I'll show that to Belgium in a moment. You can see that a little better on the red line. In a sense, she's even more important. The red line is economic dependence. This means the number of people who are not at work, children, adults and the elderly, shared by those who are at work. The red line is sensitive to the economic situation. We expect the red line to improve a little. This means that it will fall when the crisis is consumed. You can see the same wave movement, where the line does not continue to rise, but goes to a plateau. It is clearer if we say that for Belgium over a very long period. I'll start in 1950 and go until 2060. This is the age dependency, although defined at an age between 20 and 64 years in the denominator. This is the demographic dependency. You can see that it has increased steadily since World War II. Only since 2010 has there been a real acceleration, a very rapid increase in age dependency. However, it then reaches a plateau and does not actually rise as strongly. How come? That's the first paradox. Life expectancy is always rising, but age dependency is on a plateau. The reason for this is that there are two different dynamics behind it. The first dynamic is the grandpa tree. Because of the baby tree, a big birth cohort after the war, many people retire today. Those people are retiring today. The grandpa tree causes a spectacular rise, but those people will die too, and so this will pass. In June, we made a calculation in our report asking ourselves what would happen if life expectancy did not rise and life expectancy remained as it is until 2019. We made a prediction for two years, 2040 and 2060. Those are the red diamonds on the drawing. That's the age dependency when it's just the grandpa tree playing, not life expectancy. You can see that the red diamond in 2040 is not so far below the red line. From that we can conclude that the big impact is the grandfather tree, not life expectancy. You will see that the grandfather tree, if life expectancy did not increase, is gradually dying out. Why is that important? Well, the grandfather's tree is an absolute certainty. After all, they were born. We can count them. The rest is insecure. We do not really know what will happen in terms of life expectancy and migration. Pension policy can be summarized in one word. You have to turn uncertainty into maximum certainty. That's what this is about. I cannot stress enough that our committee's report is not based on any prediction, but on the fact that predictions are not possible. The report is therefore based on uncertainty. Although we are already very sure of a certain evolution for the first period. But in the long run, we're not so sure about that. So let me return to the European Commission's report and say: the further we look in the future, the less certain we are about it. In such an uncertain world, therefore, pension reform is essentially providing young people with maximum guarantees about the quality of their pensions. That is the essence of the debate. I now come to a second point which seems paradoxical at first sight. If you read the European Commission's report that is just out, and look at what the European Commission is predicting about average expenditure on pensions in Europe, you will see that it does not increase. That's the black line on the chart. Average 11.3 %, exactly the same in 2060. Mr President, we could now say that we are stopping this sitting, because there is no problem anymore. We can have a quiet coffee or go to another topic, because there is no problem anymore. However, that is not a correct conclusion, it is a very wrong conclusion. Let us first try to understand what is happening. The red line you see on the chart indicates what would happen to statutory pension expenditure if the landscape did not change when people retire, the number of people working and the quality of pensions. The only thing that would change is the aging. If only the ageing changes, you can see on the red line that pension expenditure is rising very sharply. Why is the European Commission predicting that pension expenditure is not increasing anymore? Essentially, there are three factors at work. A first factor is coverage, coverage. The number of pensioners in relation to the number of older people is falling significantly in this forecast. Today, the number of people with a pension in relation to the number of people aged 65 or over is 133 on average in Europe, falling to around 105. The number of people with a pension is therefore very low in relation to the number of older people in that prediction. This is due to the measures taken, which make it less easy for people to retire, and also due to a number of sociological evolutions. Secondly, employment is expected to increase. If employment increases, there is more economic product and then the denominator in the break-up of pension expenditure is higher as a percentage of the domestic product, which reduces the result of the break-up. A third element is called the benefit ratio, an expression that we also use in our report. It is about the quality of pensions. The ratio between an average pension and an average wage is considered. I simplify, because it's a little more complicated, but let me say that it's an average pension compared to an average wage. Now I will show you how we go from the red line in the graph to the black line; I will show you what is going on, to explain why we see that at first glance very reassuring result of the impact of ageing in Europe. Part of the explanation lies in the fact that in 2060 there will be far fewer people with a pension compared to today in relation to the number of older people. This is due to a retirement at a later age and a generalised tighter access to the pension. That's part of the statement, the cover, and that brings me from the red line to the blue line. A part of the statement, but not so important, is the fact that there will be more employment. Which brings me from the blue line to the green line. Half of the explanation is the decline in the quality of pensions, so the benefit ratio, the ratio between the average pension and the average wage, is falling. It is, of course, an average. One has to be careful with averages. There are countries in Europe where pension expenditure will continue to rise very sharply, there are countries where pension expenditure will fall sharply. So that black line is an average. Also the story of the benefit ratio is an average. I would like to draw a small map of Europe with you and then arrive at Belgium. I believe that this is really at the heart of the debate. What have I done here? I continue to work with this benefit ratio: what is an average pension in relation to an average wage of active people? Take all pensioners and calculate their average pension. Take all the people who work and calculate their average income. What's this affair? The horizontal axis has that ratio on it today. The more you go to the right, the better. You can see on the left, but I don't want to insinuate anything. Greece, EL. There is a very favourable relationship between pensions and active incomes. They're all the way to the right. You see Latvia, LV. The pensions aren't that big of a deal. They're all the way to the left. You can see Belgium there in the middle, on the blue line. On the vertical axis, we see the ratio between pensions and active income as spelled out by the European Commission before 2060. The higher one sits on the vertical axis, the better one does in 2060 according to that prediction. The blue line is a line where they do equally well in 2060 and 2013. The blue line is therefore the line where there is no change in the quality of pensions. I'll take you with me. These are Spain and Portugal. What you are actually seeing is a very drastic decline in the average quality of pensions in Spain and Portugal. That's what people predict. Today they're still pretty good. The ratio between pension and active income is 60%. The European Commission's prediction is based on the fact that it goes to 40% in Spain and Portugal. In Poland today it is 47 %. This will fall sharply, below 30%. Latvia will fall to 13 %. That's totally untenable, if you ask me. So that's the prophecy. I would like to conclude from this that the report states that there is still a lot of pension reform to be done. What is financially sustainable is therefore not yet socially and politically sustainable. It must be taken into account that private pensions are also under development. In Spain, Poland and Latvia this is a rather unclear matter. Belgium is about on the blue line. The forecast assumes that in 2060 the average quality of an average pension versus an average active income is equal to today. So we're about on the blue line. We're in the middle of the platoon. If one has to ask a question about pension reform, it is this one. Do you want to be on the blue line? Do we want the ratio between an average pension and an average active income to stabilise? Where do they want to sit on that blue line? You have to answer that. So you want to be on the blue line? Do you want the average quality of pension versus active income to remain stable? Or may that descend for you? Or should that improve? Where do you want to be on that blue line? Would you like to sit where Luxembourg, Belgium or Ireland, for example? In particular, do you want to stabilize the ratio? The report of our pension committee can be summarised in a sentence: we want to be on the blue line. That's it. Now we have to ask ourselves which pension system we need. Why? Because we also want to be able to tell young people that the quality of future pensions will be what the quality of pensions is today. The question is, of course, what quality. You can make the same exercise for Belgium as for the average of Europe. I did. In Belgium, pension expenditure increases relatively significantly, approximately to 2040. Then they clip. So it's mostly the baby tree that plays. You can also see why we in Belgium do not rise according to the red line. That is the purely ageing effect. If that were to play, we would go to over 18 percent. We're going to go to 15%. This has to do with the fact that coverage is tightening up and that fewer people will be able to retire through measures taken by the Di Rupo Government. This has to do with increasing employment, but not with a deterioration in quality. Let me put Belgium against the European average. The red line is Belgium, the blue the European average. It is a question of statutory pensions as a percentage of GDP. At European level, stabilisation is forecast, an increase of 15% of GDP in Belgium by 2040 and a stabilisation thereafter. An important difference between the European average picture and the Belgian picture is the quality of pensions. On average, the quality of European pensions falls considerably, from a ratio of 44% to a ratio of 35%. That's the blue dotted line underneath. That is not the prediction that is being made for Belgium. It's different for Belgium. The average quality of our pensions is improving in relation to active income, it peaks and then starts to decline. You can see that on the red dotted line, an inverted U. We read this in the European Commission's material, but we have documented it in detail in the report. We must distinguish between employee pensions, civil servants' pensions and self-employed pensions. After all, this is a synthesis. Official pensions improve and will continue to improve. It is the workers' pensions, in particular, which make you an inverse person, who first improve and then begin to decline. The reasons for this are complex, but they have to do with the calculation formula itself. They have to do with the degree of stability of welfare, not with the prosperity of the pensions that are in payout, but with the calculation formula for the pension that is granted. That is very important in our report. We want to think about the calculation formula, because it leads to that unfortunate course. This trend is a course in which the baby boom generation will have had the best pensions ever, while we will have to tell the young people that their pensions are unfortunately starting to decline. In fact, we do not want that; in fact, we want to stabilise the relationship. Looking at the report, the immediate question is what the impact of the measures taken by the Michael administration is. We can say something about this in very general terms. I shall come back to that in more detail later. We can say something about it on the basis of the notes published by the Planning Bureau. The Planning Bureau published a note in February and then one in March. I would like to stress that I think the Planning Bureau has done an excellent job for our committee. It has a very strong analytical capacity. The Planning Bureau can put a lot more on the table than what is now on the table. The first estimate of the Plan Bureau, I believe, learns from this and I say that, in my view, the impact of the measures decided and announced by the Michel Government, such as raising the statutory retirement age, abolishing the diploma certificates for access to the pension, not for the purposes of the calculation of public office and some other measures, have a gross impact of 1.5 percentage points of gross domestic product. That's my assessment. Why am I making that assessment? The Planning Bureau refers to 1.7 percentage points in its February memo. However, this also includes the impact of diploma certificates on the calculation of civil servants' pensions, which is not included in the latest official estimate of the Planning Office. It is not clear whether this decision has been taken. If you take that out, you have to subtract 0.2 percentage points and you get to about 1.5. There is much more to be said about this, because the Planning Bureau has done the preliminary exercise on the basis of an optimistic hypothesis of how the labour market will react. The Planning Bureau is also very transparent about this. You'll need to study section 16 of our report on that. In our report, we simulated the impact of raising the statutory retirement age on the basis of two assumptions about the labour market response. The first hypothesis, which the Planning Bureau identifies as a shift, translation, is actually an optimistic hypothesis. The second hypothesis, which we have mentioned in consultation with the Planbureau le report minimal, a minimum delay in pension behaviour, is a more pessimistic hypothesis. The optimistic hypothesis is that if the retirement age is shifted, the whole person of behaviour of the people will shift and people who retire two years before the age of 65 will retire two years before the age of 67 in 2030. Everything just shifts. That's an optimistic hypothesis. The pessimistic hypothesis is that people simply allow themselves to be forced and postpone their retirement until when they can go. That's le report minimal. Quite a few international studies assume that this hypothesis is more realistic. The European Commission is working with the shift hypothesis and therefore the Planbureau has also used the shift hypothesis in its publications so far. However, we are dealing here with a fork. If one ultimately wants to make a good assessment of the impact, it is important to look at that fork. I'll come back to that later. Of course, it also has to do with employment policy, for example with what is being done to help older people get into work. It also has to do with the incentives to work longer. If you allow me to give a personal consideration to this: the optimistic shift hypothesis is, of course, less likely if the incentive to work longer is abolished, because in that case the financial motivation is reduced. I refer to the whole debate on what we should do to reward people who stay longer at work. I now come to the report of our committee. I'm moving on quickly, because I assume you know these things, but I'm trying to reflect the essence of them. The essential objective is the following. Thanks to the pension reform, providing people with maximum security about the quality of the pension system and its sustainability. That certainty is not absolute and we must therefore understand what certainty that really is. Our report does not say that we will go bankrupt if we do not continue to reform and if we say that the Di Rupo government has already taken difficult measures and that we will leave it at that. That's just not right. Incorrect arguments should not be used. We're not going bankrupt. Our report does indicate three problems if we do not reform further. Firstly, we will indeed spend more and more money on pensions, to this extent, this is a judgment that we will be short of money for other needs. That's my deep conviction. There is therefore a reason to reduce the increase in pension expenditure, namely other social needs. Secondly, what will happen if we do not reform? Our pension system is increasingly not adapted to the way people live together. It only knows married or unmarried in the traditional legal sense. More and more young people choose to live together, a completely unknown parameter in our pension system. That is why the system is increasingly not in line with social reality. The inescapable question is what we want to do with the legal figure "living together" in our pension system. We can't leave it the way it is. We cannot create rights for people who are married and do not create them for people who live together legally. And creating the same rights for people who live together legally as for people who are married is priceless. This whole family dimension needs to be reviewed and modernised. That is as important in itself as the ageing story, but I am not going into that family dimension today. However, it is as important a reason for structural reform as an ageing population. What are we going to see if we don't reform? The quality of workers' pensions improves first and then starts to deteriorate. We will pay more for a system that no longer matches social reality in terms of marriage and living together. A growing group of employees will be disappointed with the result. We absolutely need to reform thoroughly. We are therefore taking structural reform by making it clear at the same time that we are not proposing integration of the three regimes. There are legitimate reasons for the desire to maintain different formulae for the calculation of the pension of an appointed employee - more advantageous formula - and of a private sector employee. In addition, it should be noted that the occupational risk associated with the self-employed profession and that related to the status of an employee cannot easily be placed in the same bag. On the other hand, we want to strengthen the collective responsibility of the actors in the three regimes, in particular that of the independents, including in the area of financing. That is why we want to maintain a separate identity for the three regimes. We therefore do not propose integration, but convergence, particularly as regards raw material which is part of the calculation systems. What is the raw material on which the formulae apply? That's the notion of a year of work. What is meant by a year of work? There is an extremely delicate debate in this area. My answer will be quick and therefore brutal, but it will have the merit of being clear. The main difference between the situation of appointed and other staff members is that the former may accumulate entitlements on the basis of years of study. This is due to historical reasons. But in the long run, this difference is not tenable. Why? First of all, because – and I insist on this – it is not the physical age of the persons concerned that will serve as a pivot, but the length of the career. But can we say that it is this aspect that determines while maintaining a system according to which, for some, the number of years of study is decisive, whereas this is not possible for others? It is therefore essential to find convergence on this subject, even though I know that the issue is delicate and will take time. That is why the upgrading of diplomas is an inevitable problem. If it is said that it is career duration that is essential for reasons of social justice, the notion of career duration must be the same for all. Secondly, one of the reasons why we observe an increasing division in all the forecasts between the average pension of an appointed official, who continues to improve, and the average pension of a worker, who will erode within ten years, is education. Everyone's starting to study longer. For some, it gives access to pension rights; for others, it is a loss. This problem of upgrading the diploma is inevitable but very delicate. It is an element of convergence. There are other elements of convergence. In the report, we outlined 'common principles' on the basis of which the three regimes that must remain separate must converge. Then we realized a point system. This system is not strictly necessary. The calculation formulas must be reviewed. But it is extremely interesting for two reasons, both for the citizens and for those who have to manage the system. It makes it possible to distinguish very clearly, in a very transparent way, two issues. The first is equity between people of the same generation: the number of points accumulated by pay relative to the number of points of people in the same generational group. The second is the value of the point, the conversion of a quantity of points to a pension that occurs at the time of the pension. It organizes equity between generations. By calculating the point value, we can ensure a decent, stabilized relationship, in any uncertain case, between the average pension of a person with a normal career and the income of the assets. The accumulation of points symbolizes justice within generations and the value of the point, justice between generations. Making this readable, both for the citizen and for the people who run the system, seems to us to be extremely important. You probably know the formulas, but I would like to stress one point which I think is very important. Suppose we're in 2025 with a point system. I've been a pensioner for a few years. We can determine my pension as being a number of points accumulated during my career multiplied by the point value decided upon at retirement. When I retire, the architecture of the system will be determined on the basis of my personal decision, a positive or negative correction (an Actuarial correction) and the link to well-being to ensure balance, a decent and stable relationship with the income of the assets. The number of points depends on the career. The Lambda citizen earning the average salary of the assets will receive a point. The wage may be higher but taking into account ceilings and floors and periods of inactivity such as unemployment, disability, sickness or maternity rest may be treated as periods of activity, while benefiting from points. Thus, in the report, we strongly stress the need for this principle of assimilation of involuntary unemployment. In the case of difficult activities, we propose that the points may be increased for the calculation of the pension which will be more favourable. The way in which we define the calculation of points marks a return to an old traditional principle of application until the mid-1990s, the real revalorisation of old wages in the calculation of pension. Perhaps some of you may recall that in the early 1980s this system of revalorisation of wages was still in place in the individual account, taking into account not only prices, but also real wage developments. Gradually, this system was abolished for reasons of savings. The Dehaene II government – I am also responsible for it, so I am not making any criticism in this regard – has completely eliminated this practice. This is one of the factors contributing to the instability of the current system. We want to re-establish this real re-evaluation to stabilize the system. The value of the point at the time the pension is taken ensures that the pension of the individual with a normal career will be in a decent and stable relationship with the income of the assets at the time the pension is taken. I said something quite curious. Did I talk about a "normal" career? What is this? This is another important issue in the debate. We propose that in the basic architecture of the system, the notion of normal career, of reference career, be evolutionary, and that it be decided now. We think it's better. You can reply that this is an insurance contract with small print entries. Yes, but it is a real insurance contract that creates a certain result and is conditioned by a context that is not entirely predictable. That's the idea. There is, of course, an alternative. If you do not like this proposal, the alternative is obvious: every government, after every election, announces a great reform. We can do it too! But this is not the most interesting alternative. Indeed, all these reforms developed in haste always cast doubt on the fact that this is the right formula. That is why we propose to include in the system itself parameters that will evolve endogenously with the context. I'll show you with a little algebra that it's not a revolution. The first ball is the current formula. I will take the example of an employee in private, isolated, who takes his pension. Let's imagine he started his career in 1970. So he has 45 years of career. What are we doing? We're going to revitalise his old wages according to the prices. We'll calculate 1/45th, that's the career fraction and take 60%. Returning to the old formula is the second ball. Instead of referring to price indexation, reference is made to wage indexation. So this is a nominal and real upgrade, as the system in principle was designed in the 1960s-70s. Of course, indexing with the evolution of real wages is stabilising, but it costs more. The second fracture is higher than the first. For this reason, instead of 60 per cent, a lower delta must be defined in order to have budgetary neutrality between the two formulas. With a little algebra, we re-engineer the formulas and find ourselves with the dot formula. The point formula is very close to the current formula of the private sector with only this difference: old wages will be relavored with the evolution of wages and not only the evolution of prices. As a result, 60 per cent or 75 per cent of household rates must be adjusted and calibrated on a delta. We can stabilize this delta. That is an essential part of our proposal. The point system is not a revolution. Both systems are even quite close, despite this difference. I come to a tricky thing, the actuarial correction. We believe that, in an appropriate pension system, the amount at the individual level should be adjusted according to the amount of the individual's departure from the pension. It's a question of fairness. If it really is a free choice when I take my pension at 63 and when a colleague, who has the same life expectancy as me, takes his pension at 65, I get two years more than he does. An actuarial correction is a financial neutralization of this benefit. It's very delicate. This no longer exists in Belgium, it has been removed. The great disadvantage of removing the actuarial correction is that flexibility can no longer be truly organized. If you want to allow people to leave earlier in the legal system and if you want to allow significant flexibility, for example with a five-year range – implicitly mentioned in our report, because that is what separates the minimum age from the legal age – then you have to provide for corrections in both negative and positive. It's essential. There are two major problems here. You have to look them in front of you. Firstly, it is good to say that, but if the average pensions are not very good, the negative corrections will make them even worse. The average pensions must therefore be decent before we can talk about flexibility around the average and about corrections. Second, not all people have the same life expectancy. There is a very marked social stratification between people like me, teachers, who have a much greater healthy life expectancy, and a construction worker, for example. Telling a teacher that his pension will be adjusted according to the time he took it, and so that one more year will cost him money, it's not like telling a worker. This year less – regardless of the fact that my work is not a real job, because I do what I want, unlike a building worker – is much less important to me, because my life expectancy is longer. The denominator in the formula is more important. For the building worker, a year counts more than for me, for my life is longer, a thirtieth is less than a twentieth. Also, telling people that we are going to organize a trade-off with corrections without taking into account this social stratification will not pass! That is why we propose in the report a rather original formula, that is, corrections based not on the physical age of people but on their careers. Thus, if the university professor wishes to retire at the age of 63, he will be penalized. If the building worker who started at the age of 18 wants to retire at the age of 63, there will be no penalty. Why? Because career time is the same. In this way, this social stratification of longevity can be neutralized significantly. Linking to well-being is an essential factor. We must not be closed to criticism of a point system. We can discuss it. I have synthesized the debate we may have on this subject. What are the objectives? In fact, our report marks a deliberate departure from a cliché debate between the so-called "defined benefit" option and the "defined contribution" option. Many debates on the future of pensions have been simplisticly photographed between these two options. It is said that we must choose between defined benefit and defined contribution. Defined benefit means that the burden of demographic transition unilaterally weighs on assets. Defined contribution means that the burden of demographic transition is unilaterally on pensioners. But we can split the problem. We call this "defined ambition". This means that one wants to stabilize the relationship between pension and income of the assets. If there is a demographic transition, everyone makes an effort, but the report is maintained. We stay on the blue line I indicated on one of my slides. That is the essential idea. It's between defined benefit and defined contribution. To achieve this, the point system is extremely useful. In fact, this is a little more nuanced in the report because we are adding another objective. We say that if we have to spend more on pensions – which is inevitable because we are very close to the significant impact of the papy boom – we must avoid a strategy where the assets will contribute, contributing more and more according to their income from work. This must be avoided. For this reason, the report states: "Insofar as additional funding is needed, which is inevitable, it is necessary to seek funding that does not weigh on income from work. The heritage factor, for example, has a role to play." The essential thing for us is that these objectives must be achieved in part on the basis of mechanisms which are integrated into the system and which are not necessarily automatic but indeed endogenous in the system. Does that mean that there is no longer a role for politics and social consultation? No, not at all! We even want to strengthen the role of social actors. For us, the creation of the National Pension Committee was the creation not only of an advisory body but also of a management and decision-making body. In the report, we have what we call common principles. I'm making a list of them on the different slides. There's ten of them. The first principle is to say that we do not want a defeatist message. This may be the difference with the reforms currently taking place in Europe, where 50% of the positive impact is an impact by reducing the quality of pensions. That's not our idea. We want to maintain the quality of pensions, but it means working longer and extending the career. It's easier to say than to achieve, but it's absolutely necessary. However, we do not have a defeatist vision in this area. Secondly, as the concept of a career year needs to be standardized, we really want convergence in this area, so the conditions for access to early retirement will be standardized. Does this mean that there is never a need to differentiate between the required career or age? Yes, for example, for security reasons. There are safety reasons why you can tell someone that when you're 65, it's still a bit dangerous, for example. But we need objective reasons. As I will explain at times, with regard to the tenability of trades, we believe that it is better to differentiate between the calculation of the pension amount and the criteria of career or age. It is also a very important choice. Flexibility presupposes a correction mechanism. Last ball, sensitive: age criteria. I repeat that the philosophy of our report was that the essential pivot is the length of the career, the mileage, and not the date of birth of the people. If you have to compare a teacher and a construction worker, it's about the length of the career. Does that mean that we can write pension legislation without age criteria? No, we also need age criteria: minimum age, legal age. Should these criteria change? To be clear, I will mention what we said in a press release on 6 June when our report was presented. We said: "The length of the career is the central element, but in the long term, the age criteria for early retirement and legal pension will also have to evolve. The Commission has examined different scenarios in this regard." [[cut off of the microphone]] (...) and the conditions for success, and stresses the importance of adjustment mechanisms integrated into the system. It does not make specific and definitive proposals in this regard. It presents a way of thinking and a strategy to be implemented in a later phase. Of the 200 pages of the June Central Report, one fifth, and thus 40 pages, were devoted to this question: should we reduce age or not? If we had been absolutely against it, we could have written a sentence: "We are against it." If we believed that it was extremely easy, that this decision was not a problem, we would have devoted a paragraph to it. But we have devoted 40 pages to it, trying to fuel the debate. We have shown the benefits but also the risks, which you know. If we decide to reduce the legal age to 67 for those who do not have a full career, if the result is an increase in the number of unemployed and invalids, the gain is zero. We must therefore consider employment policy, the labour market, the conditions for success and all the social consequences. That is why, in the report, we have put forward two hypotheses. One is rather optimistic about the response of the labour market. The other rather pessimistic hypothesis is that age-based segmentation currently observed will persist. That's what we need to study, I think. Then we have to make decisions. The minimum pension must be simplified - it is fiercely complicated today, with six regulations in force at the same time - and improved. There is an important societal debate on minimum rights for those who have part-time jobs and small jobs. We want a totally neutral system, which even integrates very small jobs into the creation of minimum rights. We can discuss it. It's an option. It also simplifies things. We want an improved system of minima. The family dimension: I told you it's as important as everything else. In fact, what we do is reconnect a little with interesting old feminist debates of the 1960s and 1970s – feminists who advocated individualization. We said not to be totally individualized. In the long run, interest rates must be individualized by maintaining derivative rights, but correct and fair derivative rights. From there, we can extrapolate the whole system to the co-habitants. Divorce: The point system allows splitting. Splitting is impossible in the current formulae. I am speeding up my remarks because I think I have exceeded my speaking time; the second pillar is very important. Transition strategy: We have described a transition strategy that consists of stopping the reform now in this legislature and writing new legislation, but with a thoughtful transition strategy. If we decide to integrate endogenous or even automatic adjustment mechanisms, we must test them before we finally decide. We were twelve experts from quite different backgrounds, socialists like me, people with a liberal vision of society, Christian Democrats, sociologists, economists, lawyers, francophones, Dutch speakers. Everything you can imagine. We wrote a consensus report. We now have 900 pages of consensus. With such a commission, reaching 900 pages of consensus is necessarily a somewhat balanced result. It's not the Bible, but it's quite balanced. I think it's balanced because we say we have to control spending, but we also have to provide for sufficient funding, not traditional funding that only weighs on work, we're talking about heritage. We say we need to work longer, but with corrections that take into account the social stratification of longevity, which is an injustice, alas, but real in people's lives. We have to take that into account. We say that we need to think about job creation policy and the nature of jobs. So I think it's a balance, but obviously it's not a Bible. A few weeks ago, we published a supplementary opinion on the issue of difficult jobs and flexibility, with specific questions to be resolved. We believe that there are arguments for the integration of penitentiality not in differentiation of age or career criteria but in calculation; and that flexibility must be open to everyone. Those who have a difficult job must be able to benefit from general flexibility and therefore leave much earlier if they wish, with an amount nevertheless adequate thanks to increases in the calculation. We explain in our last April opinion why this method is much more clever, easier to manage and much more appropriate if we are to continually adapt the system to an evolving reality. If we really want to give a role to the social partners, and I believe that the social partners really have to be the masters of the game with regard to the definition of difficult jobs, our proposal allows us to give responsibility to the social actors by giving them an envelope of additional points which they can decide on the allocation on the basis of their conception of the tenability of certain professions. This makes it possible to control the system and at the same time to create this freedom and flexibility for the social partners. Many other questions arise, I pass. We need a coherent reform, we need to think "the gear" - that is why we use this expression - between a generic conception of flexibility, the corrections then necessary in the calculation on the basis of the moment of taking the pension, and the corrections for difficult jobs. It's a whole. We expressed our concern in our last April opinion. I believe that Parliament, the government and social actors need to define the chronology of issues. First question: what is our ambition? What quality of future pensions do we want to ensure? Second question: do we want to stabilize this quality? Are we going to create a system that guarantees the stability of this quality? Secondly, do we want flexibility? If we want it, we need a correction system. Will the average amounts be sufficient to actually imagine corrections? Secondly, we need to think about issues such as the part-time pension. At the same time, consideration must be given to the family dimension and minima. It's a whole. The chronology of questions must be clearly defined. We have said that an interesting idea such as part-time pension, which is an opportunity for various reasons, is easier to implement in a point system than in the current one. If we want to do this in the current system, it is not easy; we must certainly think carefully about the coherence of our actions and the aim to be achieved. What are the questions? I quoted them. I think there are policy issues to be discussed. Do we want this idea of defined ambition? Do we want to stabilize? What level do we want? Do we want to incorporate adjustment mechanisms? How? Do we want convergence between regimes by still managing them separately? Do we want to take account of the length of the trades at the level of calculation? Do we want to hold social actors accountable for this? Do we want to modernise the family dimension? Do we want to improve minima? All of this needs to be addressed if we really want to prepare for the future. There are important technical issues. Our report is only a beginning; it leaves open extremely important technical questions. Technology obviously has consequences. There are things we haven't studied. One example: if we keep three separate diets, how do we define the balance we want by diet? It is an unknown territory in Belgium. How to define the balance between diets? It's an important social issue. What solidarity between regimes? How can the business cycle be taken into account in a point system? This question is contained in a footnote to our report, but it itself deserves consideration. Let me go back to the measures that have been decided upon by this government. As I said, the Planning Office is truly capable of providing extensive analysis. They have a well-developed instrument. More forecasting and simulation tools are needed if we really want to simulate a reform in depth. We must first clarify, in what has been presented so far, the pure impact of the measures envisaged by the Michel government and the impact of the demographic assumptions that are evolving. In my opinion, back-of-the-envelope, the pure impact, in an optimistic hypothesis, is 1.5. But I think we also need to look at the other assumptions. The assumption of minimum carry-over, which is described in our report, is less optimistic. It is then necessary to examine the evolution of the benefit ratio of the quality of average pensions in these perspectives. What is the impact of removing the pension bonus in these simulations? What is the evolution of the relationship between civil servants' pensions and employees' pensions? In my view, public servants' pensions will continue to improve. They are being pushed to work longer, so their pensions will improve more than those of private sector employees. That's what we're gonna see if we unblock the simulations. All this has been studied. Perhaps the most important thing is that, given the need to manage uncertainty and create a corporate contract in a context of uncertainty, a risk analysis is needed. One important thing that emerges from the European Commission's report is that, in their risk analysis, the Belgian system is one of the systems that has the most impact on alternative assumptions in terms of migration, longevity, employment, productivity, etc. If you look at pages 99 to 102 of the European Commission's report, you will see elaborate tables on risk analyses and other assumptions in terms of productivity, employment, migration, etc. Belgium is still at or near the extreme, in terms of risk analysis. Therefore, not only should a scenario be simulated, but a risk analysis should be carried out. Mr President, I may have been a little long, but I felt it necessary to explain all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u3	Thank you, Professor, for this statement. It was extensive, but it had the merit of updating it with the latest figures from the European Commission. This gives us the advantage that we recognise that we must continue to reform if we want to keep pension quality at the level, as you yourself said. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Members, by group. We shall then give the floor to Mr Vandenbroucke for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u4	Mr President, Professor, thank you for your detailed presentation and for the work of the committee and of your fellow Members, so that the debate on pensions is raised at a high level. In the interests of this subject, I believe that this should also be done. I have some questions. You say we should stay on the blue line when it comes to the benefit ratio. I understand that the benefit ratio is the first pillar. If one stays on the blue line, this means that the ratio with all other pillars remains intact. That's a choice, too. Staying on the blue line, of course, is one thing. You're assuming we're in the right place. You don't want to be on that blue line higher or lower. You assume that our current position in the benefit ratio is the right one. You are talking about other sources of funding. They're already here today. The contributions of employers and employees are not enough today to finance total social security. Can you give me an order of magnitude? Perhaps this will have an impact on social dialogue, because when we start to draw on the general resources, the principle that the system is owned by employers and employees, which is the basis of the current joint social dialogue, is actually going to erode a little. I have a question about the heavy professions. Very often this discussion is conducted in black and white, it is a heavy occupation or it is not a heavy occupation. What is the scope for the concept of heavy tasks? Otherwise, the approach may be a bit impertinent. You also talked about life expectancy, and what you said about it is very interesting, but not so evident in its application. For example, what does one do with mixed professions? One can spend a time in a profession that has the qualification to give greater wear and tear and at a later age switch to another profession. What does one do with individual choices? I could almost be naughty as to whether we should give a bonus to smokers because they have a positive impact on the pension account, as they reduce their own life expectancy? It's provocative, of course. Then there is the difference between man and woman, which is also an element that plays a part in this. Should we come back to the idea of the unitary statute, in which we have various statutes with a different impact on life expectancy? Those are just questions that occur to me, because the idea of life expectancy is without doubt theoretically highly justifiable, but in the practical application it should almost lead to, I think, we have to calculate a sort of score for everyone individually, which is therefore very uncertain, because it is about expectations. Finally, you say that we need to be aware of the transition. This is of the utmost importance in any reform. One has to bear in mind that the proof of the pudding is always in the eating. How much time do we have for that transition? After all, the timetable you are drawing runs into the fact that the most acute period will fall before the 2030-2040s. Are we not threatening to come up with a solution at a time when the bulk of the problem is over, or should it have already been digested, or has the system been eroded? In other words, how much time is there for the transition? How acute do we have to introduce the definitive system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u5	First of all, I would like to thank you, Professor, for your very interesting presentation and for the work done by your committee. It is clear that this is a complex problem, as we have seen again today. This is a technically complex problem, which affects many disciplines. I am pleased that your approach and that of your committee is as comprehensive as possible. It's an important element. On the other hand, I blame the government for saucissoning its reform, when this theme is so global that it can only settle itself in a global logic. If I may, I find that you may not yet address it in a sufficiently comprehensive manner, because the reflection on pensions must be integrated into a reflection on the impact on poverty, the impact on older people's employment and youth employment. One labour market situation is not another. And pension decisions can influence these elements and, more generally, the various branches of social security. You mentioned it, but the model doesn't fit it. I realize the complexity of integrating all aspects of the model, but it is clear that this has an impact on the other branches of social security, including unemployment and disability. Another element that asks me about this reasoning, which from a theoretical point of view is interesting, even if I am not convinced by everything, is that you are working on medium logics. However, different situations exist. When you talk about the replacement rate, for example, when you have a low income, it's not the same as when you have a high income. You mentioned healthy life expectancy. I found this argument not present in the written report, but you mentioned it in your presentation. It is clear that, depending on the occupation, this healthy life expectancy is not the same. But it doesn't just depend on the job. There are other influences and I'm not sure that having the career as the only reference can erase differences. If we start working at the age of 18 in some difficult jobs, it is normal to stop earlier because we will reach the number of years of career sooner. But these years of career also weigh heavier. Should they not be fewer? When you do heavy work — you mentioned the building, but there are other forms of penitibility — 45 years do not represent the same thing. Maybe after 35, 38 or 40 years, you're much more used and you can't get to the number of theoretical average years you're talking about in your model. As far as the concept of replacement rates is concerned, is this reasoning purely intended for the first pillar or should it also include the second and third pillars? You refer to the second pillar in the written document, but, for lack of time, you did not mention it in your presentation. This second pillar obviously represents an important dimension. I consider it increasingly fragile and not yet very widespread. However, this creates significant differences between those entitled to it and the nature of it. With regard to the decisions that are now being taken, we are going, from a piece of reform to a piece of reform, towards more and more obligations to work longer. I understand that the real age must be raised if the system is to be balanced and sustainable. In your system, I have the feeling that the notion of inciting is more interesting than the notion of obligation, especially that of working until the age of 67. Can you give me your opinion? In other countries, such as Germany, there are setbacks for this age of 67. What do you think of this age logic? Age is linked to entitlement. Is it the right reference or is it the number of years of career? I think you're heading for the career. I would like to address the tax advantages for the second pillar, and the concept of solidarity, which is important. There are the number of points that have been acquired, for the first pillar, or the individualization of rights. I believe that this concept of solidarity is essential, that it must be maintained or even strengthened, because not everyone is under the same conditions in order to achieve a decent pension. What worries me most about the point system is the variableness of the adjustment. This variable adjustment character is the point value. We've already had an opportunity to discuss it and all this needs to be fine-tuned. However, it would be unfair if, depending on when one takes up his pension and the overall budgetary context, one had a point value, and thus a pension, which was penalized because of a negative economic context. In this case, does it not require markers, thresholds, correction elements to avoid deviations and, at some point, to be below the poverty line or the welfare line? Should not corrective elements be included in the form: tag, floor, ceiling? Many questions could be asked about the themes of penitibility, the closed envelope on penitibility, and partial pension. What is ultimately the advantage of a partial pension over time credit, where the concept of solidarity seems more important to me than at the level of partial pension, where the choice seems more individual to me with individual consequences? Developments and end-of-career conditions are important concepts in this reflection. However, they are not really addressed in your report. I am pleased that you have recalled some basic principles, which unfortunately I do not find in the government's current methodology, namely the importance of increased funding, which is not just about work but also about heritage. There should be a great deal of involvement of the social partners and of society as a whole, because it is ultimately a social reform. We must therefore take our time and give a management role to these social partners, which I do not find in the current reform. On the other hand, every government must not engage in a major and hasty reform. Indeed, that is my feeling. These are my questions, but this topic deserves multiple hours of debate and point-by-point dialogue. Nevertheless, I will remain there at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u6	Mr President, I too would like to thank Mr Vandenbroucke for the quality of the work done and for the clarity of his presentation. I would like to stress that 900 pages of consensus on this topic are an important document, which must be taken into account. I will focus my questions on three areas. The first problem is raising the legal retirement age. This important debate gives rise to controversy. The press this weekend tells us that Mr Di Rupo has not read the 900 pages of your report. In this case, he would not have said that he would return to departures at 67 years of age. I note that in your presentation, you have been very clear. There are two scenarios, an optimist and a pessimist. It's important that they be put on the table. However, in the consolidated text of the Commission's first report, on page 20, the conditions for access to the pension were even clearer. I quote: "The conditions for access to the pension must be partly linked to life expectancy, but in order to cope with the baby boom, this link must be implemented speedily. This means in concrete terms that the legal pension age would rise to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030". Clearly, the choice was made in relation to the scenarios discussed today. I would therefore like to have your opinion on the two scenarios presented. With regard to the legal retirement age, a member of the Commission, Mr Hindricks, recently published a book in which the scenario refers to retirement at the age of 70 by 2050. I would have liked to know your opinion on this. Have any other scenarios been studied? The OECD recommends raising the effective legal retirement age. The European Union and the Commission also recommend adjusting age according to life expectancy. It is on this specific element that I would like to know your point of view. How can we, without having a huge debate on the subject in each new government, be able to adapt automatically in a much more flexible way, a mechanism that would work like an index to the legal retirement age? Can you give us your point of view on this matter? The second chapter of the questions concerns the reference career. The report of the Pension Reform Commission calls for the extension of the reference career (currently 45 years) in the event of an increase in the legal age of the pension in order to prevent the extension of the career from ultimately leading to a higher pension. It is specified that the reference career is, in the calculation of the pension, an adjustment variable, which changes according to the demographic and economic context. Do you think that the government should have planned to raise this reference career, as long as it has planned to raise the legal age? The government agreement does not affect the reference career. What is the vote on this? Do you confirm that raising the legal age without raising the reference career will lead to an increase in the average pension amount? It's obvious, because you don't touch the length of your career, but you allow people to take their pension later. Inevitably, the average pension should be higher. Do you confirm this analysis, Mr. Vandenbroucke? The third theme relates to actuarial corrections; Mr. Daerden directly understood that these were malus bonuses. On many occasions, you have referred to positive or negative actuarial corrections. You cited the example of the mason and the professor, which is very understandable. Do these actuarial corrections mean that the Commission proposes to reintroduce a form of malus in the event of early departure? Can you refine your point of view in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u7	Professor, I join my colleagues in thanking you for this presentation in which you are juggling. After hearing you, it seems simpler. Nevertheless, there are still areas of shadow in view of the complexity of the matter. You have highlighted the fact that, with the same policy, our pension system is not, in the long run, financially sustainable. You have in one of the slides demonstrated the impact of certain measures decided by the Michel government. It is noted that by 2060 it would be 1.5% of GDP. But you refer to your 2015 report. However, when we look at this report from the Planning Office, we find that it was 1.7 per cent for March and -1.9 per cent for February. I wonder about the difference in the points awarded in the sense that you mentioned that it was due to the abolition of a diploma bonus under career conditions. It seems to me that this condition was already reflected in the report of the March 2015 Plan Office. I would like further explanation on this point. Do the various reforms implemented by the government strengthen the financial sustainability of our pension system? You also referred to the harmonisation of schemes by advocating that the common principles for the three pension schemes should be strengthened and not intertwined. Normally, the point system pursues this objective. An important step has already been taken by the government with the phasing out of the diploma bonus in the calculation of career for early retirement. According to the Commission, this was a sensitive issue. You talked about it during your presentation. I suppose you think the reform is going in the right direction. However, did the Commission recommend other measures such as this? It was only this last one that you put forward, stating that it was delicate. My last question will be about hard jobs. You have indicated quite quickly that it is appropriate to objectify the penitibility of certain professions. We know that it will be up to the National Pension Committee to define the criteria for objectivation. However, once they have been established, it will still be necessary to determine how they will have to influence pension rights. You have shown us that, in calculating a point system, we can incorporate several criteria. I did not understand whether this penitentiality would promote early retirement or whether it would lead to a better pension. In the Commission's first report, it is stated: "Those who work in difficult jobs will therefore be able to opt for an early pension or obtain an additional benefit from their efforts through a better pension if they decide not to take it in anticipation". You seemed to indicate that penitibility would only be involved in the calculation of the pension, but not in the age or career requirement. It was taken from the slide that you showed us. What about the end of the day? Is it necessary to take account of penitibility in the calculation of the pension, for the career condition allowing for the early pension, or both? I would therefore like some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u8	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, thank you for your presentation of the report and the supplementary report, but above all for the work you have done and for the debate. During the previous legislature it was said that it was important to get some more input and to do research on this subject. From the introduction you have made, I understand that you believe that we need to do something about our pensions, that it is important that there is reform and that it is done systematically. It is also said that in this case additional resources should be sought to finance social security balances. There has already been reference to the proposals made by your committee. It is the idea of the baby tree, which makes adjustments to our pension legislation urgent, in order to safeguard the future of our younger generations. In this sense, the question of timing has already been asked. I'm also stuck with a knot. We are providing for a number of measures. At the same time, we also provide for a number of transitional formulas and periods for certain groups and age categories. As a result, those who are just covered and may no longer be able to adjust their careers will perhaps have to bear the full burden of the other rules we provide for. There are transitional periods which will help to soften this situation, particularly for the 56+ and 57+. But the group that's just after that is having a hard time. At the same time, the problem arises that as we provide for more transitional measures and thus proceed more gradually, the invoice is passed on to the younger generation, although we want to offer them just more certainty. Can you clarify that? How far does that go? You can understand my question, but I think it is a difficult point in the whole of the measures we are proposing. With regard to your points system and the formula you use, there is intragenerational solidarity on the one hand and, on the other hand, solidarity between generations on the other. That actually means that we should not wait too long for this regulation. You also provide for different schemes for self-employed persons, employees or civil servants. It is positive that one looks within one's own system, because it is also one's own responsibility within each system. The self-employed group could be said to be encouraged in this way to indicate as much income as possible, because that is an element in the pension calculation. That's how I understood it from your report. On the other hand, they also say that there has been an understatement earlier by the PS..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this group there is a fear that this fluctuation will be large. Is that correct when they say that? Is that element correctable or does something else have to happen? Maybe I didn't understand the calculation system that well. Let me give you an example. When one retires, the value of the point is calculated at the time one retires. For the calculation of the value of that point, an average is taken over a past. If there is a high level of economic activity or if there is a much higher level of pensions when people have been retired for five years, is a correction still being made? Is that the rating coefficient? Or is this not taken into account at all? Here's what I'm talking about. Suppose I have a setback and retire during years of bad economics, with low incomes. Is that a disadvantage, or is it corrected later? That's not entirely clear to me. Perhaps you could explain this a little further. I suspect that, in response to questions from fellow Members, you will also be addressing the serious professions and your vision of them. The most important thing I understand is that the whole package is given to the social partners, who then have to determine the criteria within that particular envelope. That is, of course, the simplest or most complex solution, depending on the angle of view. Everything is returned to the social partners. It is not clear to me, however, whether this will play a part in calculating the level of pension or whether it will play a part in the career? Or is it a combination of both? I do not think I have heard enough about supplementary pensions. I would have liked to have heard more about this, especially in view of the current debate on the guarantee of return. With regard to the replacement ratio, to which reference was made earlier, I would have liked to know the extent to which this is involved. It has been a while since I read your report, but I thought you were also talking about officials changing systems. A supplementary pension should be made possible for contractual employees in the public sector, whereas it is now much less so. I therefore wonder what importance you attach to supplementary pensions and to the guarantee of return that is included in them. You also refer to the fact that the bonus has been abolished. I had always understood that people were not convinced that this bonus really helps, because not everyone knows that it exists and so on. Studies would also show that a bonus is only important if there is a malus. It is actually the malus that achieves efficiency, and not so much the bonus. That's how I understood the studies that existed. I can only hear you say now that it is a pity that the bonus has been abolished. My question is, what do you think are real incentives that make people work longer? Part of the reasoning for leaving early retirement is that one wants to apply a minimum before people can retire earlier, which at the same time can build up some security to protect people from themselves. If one only works with a bonus-malus and one stops after X years, then one is faced with a low pension. Society must therefore provide a minimum. So my question is what your vision is and that of your group in this matter, linked to the malus. You have also mentioned the new forms of society: there are different consequences of living together and marriage today. However, if I have understood you correctly, in the report, you are actually arguing for a gradual phasing-out of family pensions over time and for individual pensions to be built up for everyone. Then the problem, if I may put it this way, of the difference between marriage, legal cohabitation and actual cohabitation is solved automatically, to the extent that this is no longer granted. You know that we are in favour of a form of solidarity when people break up. That split will no longer be needed in that system if each individual is to build up his pension. How do you see that? I'll let you explain. At the same time, the guarantee for your minimum pensions will continue to exist. I would have liked to have had some clarification on this, on the guarantees for minimum pensions, including for people working part-time. That is effectively a serious concern. If people have part-time jobs in shorter careers, how do they guarantee justice to those who work full-time? On the part-time pension, I would have liked some more explanation, but I do not know if we have the time to do so. Then I come to the debate on life expectancy. I thought life expectancy had something to do with socio-economic status. That's not the same as "heavy" profession. In my view, that is another debate. In fact, we have always argued for the maximum inclusion of careers rather than ages when we talk about pensions. However, I do not think that this is enough to cover the shorter life expectancy of a socio-economically lower class. I did not hear an answer to that directly. Not to count on individual level, but at group level. Can't do that or can't do it at all? Is that in your slopes? It is simply said that the life expectancy of people with a lower socio-economic level is seven years less. Professor De Witte has a much more complicated calculation in which the difference is even greater, but I stick to the seven years. The question is how is it to be taken care of. This is not done by calculating in careers. A career of 45 years is 45 years, regardless of whether or not one has studied. This does not reduce the difference in life expectancy. How can that be? I didn't hear you speak about the equality of care. I'm guessing that's what you put into the equations. In your slides, I did find unemployment and illness. It seems equally important to me in the context of care to include equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u9	Let me briefly list a few points. Colleague Van Quickenborne will soon raise some issues as ex-Minister of Pensions. Mr Vandenbroucke, your views were already somewhat known to us. Your vision is clear in itself. You have touched on a number of points on which this government has already taken decisions. Some of them were also needed to complete the budgetary picture in order to bear the ageing population. Did that fit into a global plan? No, it wasn't. That was also one of your points. With the institutions set up by the Chamber, we need to engage in the debate in order to provide for the wider framework. In the debate on pensions and the end of our careers, an adjustment for budgetary reasons, which has sometimes happened, is very difficult for those who are just before retirement age or at the end of their careers. People are touching rights that people thought they had finally acquired. Although that is certainly not always clear, they do have that impression or expectation. Here we actually have the opportunity, I think, to draw up a framework for the future generation, for a new contract with the young generation at the start of the professional career today. Thus one can clearly reflect expectations of that career, the length of the career, the way in which we work, in order ultimately to arrive at a justified retirement expectation at the end of that career. You said that in a number of interviews, we actually need a new social contract with the young generation. I support that, too. The coming period must be used to really do so, because then one can argue in a theoretically correct way, without people cramping because they are looking at their own situation. The pension debate can never be seen apart from the career debate, because the way in which we organise our careers is actually linked to the time when the career ends and to the rights that they have built up. The commitment you have to start this debate now is very valuable, a debate on both the quality of the careers and the retirement age and on the rights of the pension. I have a few more questions. You explained the point system. However, how do you see the transition from the current pension system to a point system? If we then have to come to a count where people are in a mixed system, the classic system and the point system, that will not be obvious. Do you see that possible or do you see people starting their careers today end up in that point system, while the others still retain rights in the other system? Do you foresee such a transitional period? How do you see that? Of course that is relevant in terms of timing. Originally, it has been said that we want a pension reform to come into force in 2030 and there will be another statutory retirement age. If we only then have the entry into a point system, then a new generation will actually pass before we actually arrive at a point system. The question is how you see that timing and how you see the transition. How could that be? In any case, you and the committee assume that longer work will be needed to keep pensions affordable. I believe that this is entirely justified. It is also proven abroad that longer careers are perfectly possible. However, I do hear voices... Members of Parliament may still have a different opinion on this, but longer working is not genetically impossible at all. It's possible. However, there are other voices, which refer to the politics that we once wanted to adopt in the 1970s, by passing on older people's jobs to young people with the bridge pension. In the end, statistics have shown that this was a completely incorrect reasoning. After 30 to 35 years, it had to be said that, despite all these systems, we in Belgium had high levels of old age unemployment and high youth unemployment. So that turned out to be a wrong policy. One of the criticisms of the committee is that, according to some parties, it should include people who claim that this reasoning is correct: older people need to move faster off the labour market to provide jobs for young people. I think this is pertinently wrong. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that. You also said that the point system is being introduced. The three current social statutes, which are civil servant, employee and self-employed, may be retained. If we're gonna make a long-term story, I don't need this. We're gonna have to get rid of it eventually. Each worker contributes to the social system. There may be harmonisation of contributions. In a few decades' time, I believe that we must be able to achieve a single statute for working people, together with a pension system that is equal for all. Why don't we shift our ambition and realize it in the long run?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u10	Thank you, Mr Vandenbroucke, for the clear statement and the additional slides. The many questions put by my fellow Members make it clear that there are still a lot of questions. I shall therefore begin with a question to you, Mr President. I would ask that we continue to be involved in the future pension debate and that the committee, in whatever form, can maintain the dialogue. This is absolutely necessary. The many questions put by my fellow Members also prove that. Mr Vandenbroucke, you show very clearly that your committee's report is about global reform and about a global approach. One is connected to the other. This government usually takes out the things that suit her best. That's her right. But what doesn't suit her, she doesn't. Your series of questions on the last slides clearly indicates that we need to think about what we want in the future and where we are going. The whole of society, not just this committee, must work towards that. I believe that is also the strength of the report. You said at the end that the report was the result of the reflection of very different people with different starting points. In this sense, it is a compromise, which is essentially global in nature. By getting a number of things out of it each time, as the government does, and not fully implementing it, the whole debate is being demolished. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to stop doing so. One must want and continue to have the pension debate in all its consequences, in a global way. One thing that comes out very clearly, for example, is broad public support. I believe that there is actually a consensus on the whole of the pension reform. If we want the reform to succeed and to be carried out in a general way, then we must also be able to allow social dialogue to play to the full. There are also a number of things which must not be overlooked. What was approved in plenary last week is actually problematic to me. Last week, a bill was passed that regulates the way the pension committee operates. The majority of the committee has already cut short, because it can only give advice on measures taken by the government. However, it may no longer make its own contribution or give unsolicited advice. In this way, I believe that we are hypothesizing the future debate and, above all, the outcome of the whole pension reform. I think that Mr Vandenbroucke's speech proves that once again. It has to be a total approach. We must dare to pursue this overall approach. I read in the summary of the first report on the government's stick horse, namely half the pension expenditure, because they are far too high. It is already much less clear where we will end up with that, because the questions that are being asked are not really being answered. For budgetary reasons, pension expenditure should be reduced. It is claimed that the measures taken will cut expenditure by half. I believe that it has now been clearly demonstrated that this is not the case. Then stop saying that. A pension reform presupposes a different funding. You have said that funding is now mainly from labour. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to look for something else. The report clearly shows that the capacity must also play a role in this. Maybe that's something to take with you. Other Members have already referred to it. My main question concerns the transition. Mrs Becq has already referred to it. Suppose the government had a global plan, which is not the case, and that it had a clear vision of where it was going. The questions that have all been asked here have been answered clearly. We are going to a point system which contains all the elements you have mentioned. Then, of course, the question remains how it will be implemented. How should we organise the transition? Should we at some point allow a number of systems to exist, the old and the new? Should we try to move very gradually towards a level playing field, which would increase social support for the new system, always assuming that young people must now know how their pension will be paid in the future and what their pension will be? I will not repeat the many questions put by my fellow Members. There are still a lot of questions about the practical effects. Those were the general concerns that I would like to give to Professor Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vandenbroucke, for your presentation. Congratulations! You have become the guru, the reference of the majority. You are often referred to, be it colleagues of the majority or ministers. I don't know how you take it and how you explain it. With regard to the figures that the European Commission has just given, you have explained them perfectly. It was very clear and very interesting. What seemed less clear to me was how you refuted those numbers. Indeed, this report runs counter to the whole policy of this government and previous governments, which is to make people work longer. This report proves that this need does not exist. First, it shows that the total number of assets relative to the total number of non-active assets does not change. The proportion of assets even improved until 2040, and in 2060 there was a slight decline of 4%, compared to an economic growth of 100% between now and 2060. So it's pretty marginal. These figures clearly run counter to what is being advocated by your Commission and by the Michel government. Secondly, this report shows that pensions are perfectly financial. In 2060, pensions will account for 11.2% of GDP, whereas today they are at 11.3% of GDP. The amount of pensions in relation to GDP does not change and even decreases by one tenth of a percentage point. Pensions are therefore perfectly payable, except, let me do that, if we burn the money, as we did at a certain time. Getting people to work longer is therefore pointless. It is a short-sighted choice and other options are possible. One point that should really be stressed is the fact that pensions are far too low in Belgium. What the current government is doing is still reducing them, while private pensions are too low, unlike those of civil servants, who are in the European average. In any case, private pensions are far too low compared to other countries and even in absolute terms. Pensioners don't get away with it. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. I would also like to speak to the bill that was submitted to us last week, which transforms your Commission into an Academic Council by giving it an expert status. His composition doesn't seem ideal to us. You were talking earlier about 900 pages of consensus. I do not necessarily find this very positive. These 900 pages are summed up in three words: "Work longer." It would be interesting to have people on this Commission who are developing a different point of view. The PTB defends the presence in this Commission of someone such as Patrick Deboosere, professor at the VUB, whose theses differ from those of the members of this Committee. With regard to your proposal for a point-based system, it seems to me that we can make several criticisms of its consequences – and several colleagues have listed some of the perverse effects of such a system. In practice, this system will reduce pensions. First of all, as my colleague Daerden has mentioned, there is a risk that the costs of an economic crisis will be passed on to pensioners who are unhappy at that time. Secondly, this will make it possible to assess the assimilated periods differently and more easily. This will result in a greater distinction between those who extend their careers through work benefits and those who do so through similar periods. Again, there will be a downward effect on the amount of pensions. Finally, a system of malus will then be put in place to strike early retirements. I would like to quote the anthropologist Lévi-Strauss, who wrote: "A civilization is judged by the lot it reserves to its elders". In this case, the one that is reserved for them through this proposal is not very happy. I believe that a completely different policy can be pursued. The introduction of the point system, inspired by the Swedish model, would significantly lower the level of our society. Ultimately, this means shifting the risk of pension financing to the elderly – which I think is rather immoral. In conclusion, this consensus, which brings together so many political parties and which emerges from these 900 pages, the dogma of wanting to make people work longer, is unfeasible, illogical and useless. It is unfeasible, because we do not all live longer, in any case not all longer in good health. In your presentation, you distinguished between living longer and living longer in good health. There are people who live less long today than before, less healthy. A woman without a diploma in 1997 lived up to 58 years in good health; she now lives only up to 49 years in good health. Healthy life expectancy is decreasing for some social categories. For this woman, who now has only a healthy life expectancy of 49 years, it is a life expectancy of 21 years less than a woman who is a graduate who has a healthy life expectancy of 70 years. There is a huge gap between social categories! He's illogical. Belgium has 650,000 unemployed. So it's amazing to leave people at work when there are plenty of young people who dream of one thing, to be able to work! It is useless because pensions are perfectly payable when compared to other European countries. For example, in 2060, we will not be at the level of France with regard to pension expenditure in relation to GDP. I refer here again to the report of the European Commission, which says things quite clearly. Mr Vandenbroucke, if I can join you somewhere, it is about the essential objectives of a new system. You were talking, first of all, about the lengthening of quarries. Now, I've been clear, I don't think that's the solution at all. But you have also put forward the option of additional funding that cannot weigh on income from work. Heritage-based funding must be able to play a role. As the successive governments say that there is an increasing problem of paying pensions, social contributions are being reduced more and more, which is indeed a way of "defining" the pension system. It is therefore crazy enough to say that we do not have enough money to pay pensions and at the same time reduce the natural payment of these pensions through social contributions. But where I join you, it's about saying that heritage-based funding must be able to play a role. It is not normal that today there is such a consensus to get people to work longer. The movement of history goes in the opposite direction, Mr. Vandenbroucke. We used to work longer, but there are productivity gains that allow us to work less per week, to work less over the life of the career. These are two different ways of working less. But the policy that has been followed over the past few years, and this government is further accentuated, is to work longer, longer, more hours a week. It goes against the tide of history. This is totally contradictory in relation to the productivity gains that are achieved. Economist Thomas Piketty has shown that these productivity gains are reflected in an increasing accumulation of wealth, with a process of self-accumulation that makes wealth grow naturally. For the PTB, the wealth contribution is an option to finance pensions but above all to increase the amount of pensions, which is far too low today. We need to introduce a millionaire tax, a wealth tax. I'll give you a single figure as an example. If we applied a tax on the twenty-five richest families in Belgium, the Spoelberch, Albert Frère and the company, the ones found in the Swissleaks, in the Luxleaks, in all cases of great tax evasion, we would have enough to increase the pension of a million pensioners by 173 euros a month. This is the choice for the government: to increase the pension of one million pensioners or to preserve twenty-five families who are not really in need!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u12	Mr President, I would first like to thank Professor Vandenbroucke for giving time to present Parliament with an explanation. Many questions have already been asked. I will concentrate on two questions. Firstly, in other European countries there is effective longer work. The question I am asking is the following. Are there any indications that working conditions are worse here than in those countries where longer working hours are effective? I believe that the debate should also be about working conditions. Are there any indications that things are worse here than in those countries where longer work is taking place? Secondly, I have a question about a debate that is often held in our society, that of the bridge pension. Professor, in your report, it's not that clear, I think, which way it should go. For example, it states that the Committee believes that in the long term benefit systems, in addition to the pension system that support permanent retirement from the labour market, would best disappear. My dad's a bridge-retired man after the mine closes. At that time, the age of taking a bridge pension was not 50 years, not 40 years, but even younger. When I talk to people like my father about that, I often hear the accusation that they have been put in a golden cage. They are wondering whether it is better to invest more in re-training? As a lawyer in labour law, I have very often drawn up social plans in the context of restructuring, and I have always been very sorry that one of the first demands of the trade unions is often the bridge pension, as is now again the case with the restructuring at Bosch. I regret that these social plans have very little regard for the reintegration and reorientation of these people. I think that's our responsibility. People have recently noticed, for example at Ford Genk, that they have more eye for that. I think it is essential that we think about how we can avoid pushing people towards their 50th or 55th bridge pension. Politicians must take responsibility for this and think about workable work. This brings me back to the first question on working conditions. Should we organise our labour market differently? Shouldn't we make sure that we keep people working longer? Then it's about working differently. I don't see one thing apart from the other. You say that one of the most important principles is a longer career. We need to be able to make that career longer. In this sense, it is already a step forward that this government has taken a number of measures to gradually increase the age of a bridge pension. You have that expertise. Can you tell me how you see an alternative to the bridge pension? That is a debate we must have in this House. If we say that we do not think the bridge pension is a good idea, alternatives must be put forward. I'm thinking about workable work. Perhaps you have some insights about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Vandenbroucke. Mrs Temmerman, the intention is to continue the debate on pensions in committee, not only with the Minister on the draft laws, but also with experts. To this end, a number of bodies have been set up with the draft law that we have adopted. Mr Vandenbroucke, are you prepared to resume the Presidency's role, which you have held for the Pension Reform Committee, within the framework of that new academic council, if you are asked to do so? The first question I would like to ask is the reform. There is a lot of discussion whether it is a real global reform or cherry picking. One of the most important prerequisites for the success of this reform that you set out in your report is that it should be implemented in a single legislative period. This cannot be spread over different legislative periods, taking into account, of course, the length of time. What will happen in 2100 is something different than in the next two or three decades. I know this is a political question, but you can also look at it academically. Do you have the impression that the reform outlined in this coalition agreement is a serious reform? Do you understand the fact that such a reform cannot be put into a single draft law, but that it is done step by step? You have some experience in this matter, so what is your assessment of this? A second question that comes to my mind concerns a very delicate point. A number of professional groups today have a reduced retirement age: police, military, train drivers. In the previous legislature, the opposition of a number of parties prevented me from aligning all of this. What's your vision on that? Is it justified that there are different lower ages for certain occupational groups? Do you think it would be wise to go to 59 years of age for the police, following the famous judgment of the Constitutional Court? Do you think that's a good position? Or do you think we should align everything and then make any corrections on the basis of the points? How do you see that? Then I have a question about the pension bonus. There was a lot of discussion about this in committee. You have also expressed your opinion on this. Can you confirm that the pension bonus in its current form, which strengthens the requirements for early retirement, both career requirements and age requirements, still makes little sense? You're in favour of a bonus, but you're also in favour of a malus. Mrs Becq said that. Let's face it, I've been through moments where my party was the only one to argue for a malus. All the other parties thought a malus was a bad idea. In fact, Mr Dehaene abolished that malus for workers at the time. During the previous legislature we abolished the malus for the self-employed. The reasoning of this government is: if there is no more malus, then no more bonus. Of two things one: either everything, or nothing. Do you consider a malus feasible? I agree with Mrs Becq's questions. Is that wise? Will people handle that wisely? Another question. The duration of the career is for you the pilot, you said. Nevertheless, one must also look at ages. I have often asked myself that question. Is it really necessary to take into account ages? Can we not come up with a system in which we only assume a career of 40, 42 or 45 years, for example, in which this fixed age is completely abandoned? After all, I often feel that the debate on 65, 66 or 67 years of age is becoming a symbolic debate, which some people want to show how much they can reform, while the length of their careers can often have a greater impact. The VBO, for example, is against letting go of that fixed retirement age. I would like to know your position on this. One thing that struck me very strongly in your speech, Mr Vandenbroucke, is that the pensions of civil servants will increase. This is quite remarkable, ladies and gentlemen. I thought that without the debate on the harmonization of the systems, it was the intention that the amounts should converge. Does this have to do with the fact that we have not gone far enough in reforming this famous diploma certificate? We have reformed the right to do so, but the amount involved has remained unchanged. Do you think that we should have gone further in this area in order, in particular, to halt the possible increase, if I may put it that way? The sixth question is the demand for workable work. Mrs Demir and Mr Lachaert spoke about it. We read in the newspaper today that people at Bosch Tienen at the age of 53 would like to take up the bridge pension. If we then have debates on a higher retirement age, on a reform, then you must understand that many people are wondering how this is still possible at this time. In other words, do you have an alternative, so that there is a perspective for people on workable work, without necessarily having to leave the labour market? Then I have a question about the point system. You say that the point system in its calculation is not very different from the current system, but that the major difference is that you do not take into account wage indexation but rather the actual wage evolution. This is a system that was abolished by the Dehaene government at the time for savings. Do you have any idea what this would mean in the budget? Is reintroducing that correction costing hundreds of millions or are we talking about much larger amounts in the long term, probably billions? Is this included in your reforms? In other words, if we want to do this, we must also make other reforms that make it affordable. How do we fix this? Finally, are you prepared, if you are therefore asked by the government, Parliament and this committee, to continue your important role, which you have observed in the past, unless you would go back into politics? I don't know if you have the ambition to do that. I think you are fulfilling the role that you are now playing very well and correctly. There are many questions, ladies and gentlemen. I propose that we give the floor to Professor Vandenbroucke and that he take the time to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u14	Thank you very much for the many very pertinent questions. I think a very rich collection of questions has been asked and I will try to answer the most important of them. I shall begin with the very first point made by Mr De Roover, but Mr Daerden and other people have also come back to it. How do we see the role of the second pillar of supplementary pensions? That's why I'd like to return to the scatter plot with the blue line. That is, after all, the basis on which we need to think. On the horizontal axis we see what the situation is like today. On the vertical axis we see what the situation is according to the predictions in the year 2060. Belgium is more or less on that blue line. In other words, the average ratio between the average pension today and the average wage today will be about the same in 2060 according to the forecasts submitted to the European Commission. The first thing I would like to say about the intervention of the representative of the PTB is that I do not contradict the figures of the European Commission. The graph is based on figures from the European Commission. What I say in a European debate is that this projection is not socially sustainable for a number of countries. She's not sustainable. That's what comes out of that. When Latvia goes to a benefit ratio of 13 %, that is a nice financial projection. However, it is a catastrophe in the social field. Another thing is to go from 70 to 50 %. That's something else. In other words, I use the figures of the European Commission to indicate that there is still a problem in this area. The question is, indeed, to what extent these relationships can be improved by effectively working longer successfully and to what extent additional funding is needed. That is a question that arises in every country. We would point out to Belgium that we should be on that blue line. Indeed, we have not made a very precise statement where we have to sit. That is precisely the political and social debate. We'll give you a line of reasoning. The political and social debate must determine where we want to sit. I would like to point out that this one point is indeed a synthesis of the position of employees, civil servants and the self-employed. This synthesis must also be looked at in isolation. How do we want the relationship between these groups to be? The question is also what the role of the second pillar is. Mr De Roover, I didn't really show that slide, but I do have some information on it. In particular, I have indicated with pink squares what I know on the basis of that same report on the second pillar. These pink squares indicate where the countries that have also transmitted data to the European Commission on the quality of their second pillar are located. What you can see is that Denmark and the Netherlands, thanks to an extensive second pillar, are significantly improving their position and are also on the blue line. So that's a completely different drawing. What you also see is that the problem is not solved with a second pillar in a number of countries. So you're looking at some very interesting things. What would happen to Belgium if we passed on our data on the second pillar? Not much would happen. We would improve our position a little bit and therefore move up a bit. We could probably also say with a little more peace of mind that we are close to that blue line, because according to all predictions, the role of the second pillar will increase. The question now is what we should think about it. The answer is in itself a statement that would take a very long time. So I'll do them a little staccato or very quickly. In the report we say that if one could start from a white sheet, and so one could wipe out history, one would make a choice in terms of funding for a mix between capitalization and repartition. However, we do not start from a white sheet, but from a sheet on which we mainly finance in a repartition system. Everyone agrees that the best thing to do is to stay there when people start doing so. There are a number of reasons for this. The transition would otherwise be particularly difficult. You'd better stick to repartition mostly. That system does not go bankrupt, but one can add a capitalization system to it. In the private sector, we are in favour of further generalisation and democratisation of the second pillar. However, we are not under any illusion as to what that will mean. That's about a few percent. This is about contributions from 1.5 or 2 to 3 %. What we are saying is that in all sectors the best way would be to reach a sufficiently high percentage to make sense. That is more than 1%, but one will not easily exceed 3 %, let alone 4 %, because it also weighs on labour costs. So try to democratize and generalize it, but that won't change the overall picture much. I did not say anything about the second pillar, but Mr Daerden made a few pertinent comments on this. If we say that we are counting on the second pillar, and if we want to democratize it, without a very large shift in the picture, then the question arises as to whether there is a fair and efficient social contract in relation to the important subsidies that the government de facto gives to the second pillar, through fiscal and parafiscal advantages. One can ask questions about this. I am the author of the second pillar law, but I am not uncritical of my own work. I come to a first question. Is there sufficient transparency with regard to the costs incurred by insurers, the fees they charge and those that weigh on the return? The answer is no. So there's work to be done. In the debate on the guarantee of returns, I would therefore say that there is no doubt a reason to reconsider the level of that guarantee. I'll say the level. I believe that a decent return guarantee is absolutely necessary, even if the financiers will say that a long-term return guarantee weighs on the return. This may be possible, but for fundamental and psychological reasons too, it is a question of providing a pension provision and a guarantee of return. It's not a casino. The level of this guarantee of return must be questioned openly today. In addition to this debate, however, I would raise the question of transparency of costs. That is what we say in our report. We are discussing taxation in our report. In doing so, we wonder whether it is fair that very large capitals paid out in the second pillar should be taxed in the same way and at exactly the same linear and actually reasonably low rate as small capitals. The question is whether or not these tax rates should be made progressive. I know a lot of people disagree with that, but we say that in our report. Our report contains a number of other points to which Mrs Becq has referred. Suppose we find another need that can be developed and is large. Well, such a need indeed exists among public service contractors. These are staff members without a permanent appointment and without a supplementary pension. So they're actually not well off. For those people, a complement could be built in the first pillar on the basis of capitalization. Could that be possible? Maybe. This is a kind of first pillar a, a legal system, generally mandatory for that group, but funded by capitalization. That might be possible, but the will must be there. It's not easy and that idea is embryonal in our report, but it could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u15	Mr Vandenbroucke, allow me to quickly ask a question about supplementary pensions. Did you also make statements in the discussion about benefits, interest and capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u16	No, we haven't had time. I myself am somewhat critical of the report because I believe that the section on supplementary pensions is not sufficiently developed. However, we did not have enough time. Actually, I'd rather have had more time. For such a report, a committee should normally have at least two years, but we did not have that much time. The section on supplementary pensions in the report is therefore too short, too little worked out. The idea of a benefit in interest is in the report. We are actually saying that the sector needs to look at the possibility of formulas that really encourage interest payments. Maybe innovative formulas can be developed to alleviate people's concerns. The objection is often that people have certainty about the absorption of capital, even in the event of death. Having is because the capital is intended for the wife or children in case of death. However, interest stops in case of death. That claim is correct. However, solutions can be developed to this end, financial formulas can be devised. In other words, the sector should think about how to come up with formulas that benefit from interest rates. Interest rates are really better from an economic point of view, no matter how amazing it may seem. How can one really create the advantage of a payment system in interest, which is really a pension system, and at the same time convince people that it is also interesting? Now people often tend to say: give me that capital, then I do. So that's an item on the agenda. I'm gonna get over it fast, or we're gonna run out of time. First of all, I would like to comment on the question of whether we are right there. We have not really taken a final position on this, because it is just the social debate. I honestly think we're not doing well enough for some groups. I think, in particular, that the average worker actually has a pension in the first pillar in the long term, which is increasingly weak. That should therefore be possible to improve. This brings me to very important questions that have been asked about what will now be the impact of the measures taken by the Michael administration and how we should understand the Plan Office's simulations. First of all, I would like to say something about the figures, and then about the mechanisms that are in place in a model like that of the Planning Bureau. As far as the figures are concerned, the situation is indeed a little complicated. In the February note, the Planning Bureau says: the impact of government decisions horizon 2060 is 1.9 percentage points less expenditure on ageing. However, this 1.9 does not only cover pensions. It also includes measures on unemployment and the like. If you look at that February note, and you look at pensions only, it is 1.7. That note says that this is merely the effect of the measures on pensions. Then there's the March note from the Planning Bureau. That note says that the basic assumptions have been changed in relation to demographics. The demographics are getting a little more favourable, there is a little less ageing. The definition of gross national product has changed. There are other assumptions about productivity. We are applying the measures taken by the Michel Government, which, oddly enough, brings us back to 1.7. That's a little weird. In February it is said that the basic assumptions do not change and that the pension impact is 1.7, in March it is said that the basic assumptions change and become more favourable, and that the impact is 1.7. The explanation is that the February note also provided that the diploma certificates would be abolished in the calculation of the level of civil servants' pensions, not just in terms of access, while the March note says that this is no longer in practice. Diplomacy is abolished with regard to access to the pension, but not with regard to its level. I think so, but who am I? On the basis of previous exercises and research that we have done, this will be taken into account for 0.2 percentage points. That is what I am saying, Mr President, you must verify with the Planning Bureau that it is about 1.5 percentage points. What happens in the simulations now? People will work longer, thus improving average pensions, both for workers and for civil servants, because they work longer. You must understand this model in such a way that there will be fewer pensioners, but they will have worked longer. You spend less money on pensions, but individual pensions improve a little. On the other hand, the pension bonus is abolished, which is a minus. I don't know what the net result is, because I don't have those models at my house; I'm just getting those notes from the Plan Bureau website as you do, I don't have any further insight into that. The Planning Office should be asked to separate it from one another in order to assess the extent to which average pensions for employees are being improved despite the abolition of the pension bonus, perhaps they improve because people are working longer and to what extent there is an improvement for civil servants, and how these figures relate. The Planning Bureau can answer that. Those people are beautiful and I think they are willing to do so without any difficulty. The question then arises: what happens if there is a less optimistic hypothesis about the labour market? The hypothesis they use is an optimistic hypothesis. It is explained neatly in the notes, you can read that there. The hypothesis is next. Suppose the statutory retirement age is increased from 65 to 67 years. Around 65 there is a division, in the sense that some people leave early, others leave at the legal age and others continue to work. The whole division is shifting. Whoever would have left at 63 leaves at 65, who would have left at 64, leaves at 66. It's called translation, shift. That's an optimistic hypothesis. They make it because the European Commission makes it. I am quite critical of the work of the European Commission in this respect, if you ask me. That also plays a part in the way I look at these figures, because they are based on an optimistic assumption of how people's behaviour will evolve. This is part of all these models. So imagine that reality is not so rosy and that people say that they are obliged to work longer, that they cannot retire, but that they will go as soon as possible. Then it doesn't shift the entire distribution, then it's compressed. We explained these two hypotheses quite thoroughly in our report in section 16. The second hypothesis, of course, means that people are working much less long, which also makes the increase in average pensions less important, or perhaps not. If one takes the less favourable hypothesis, it could be... I speak conditionally, because I don't know; I didn't ask the people of the Planning Bureau, I go to their website and I download the notes and try to think about it. It is therefore possible that the overall impact on employee pensions is not positive but negative, because people are working longer to a limited extent, while they are losing the pension bonus. That needs to be investigated. These are just numbers. Mr Daerden also raised the question of whether automatic adjustment mechanisms should be provided for in the calculation of pensions. This is something we propose in principle. Should it be assumed that if one lives longer, the calculation formula also needs to be adapted? You do not hear me saying that this must and will be. You hear me say that we need to think about that. The question is indeed: where does one want to get? What's the contract people want? What will happen if the retirement age increases? Will people actually work longer? Is that just okay with you? Shouldn't that calculation formula be adjusted? Is it just okay that there's more retirement? Can we afford that? All that needs to be looked at. All this should be carefully analysed with the instruments available to the Planning Bureau, and that is also possible. Two questions were asked. The President asked a question about the diploma bonus and Mr De Roover and Mrs Becq asked a question about the pension bonus. Mr President, members of the committee, my explanation may sound a little complicated and academic, for which I apologise, but I will have to explain things in that way. The debate on the pension bonus is actually a very complicated debate. In what was previously called the first candidacy economy, it was explained to the students that there are two effects if one increases or lowers an hourly wage. The Economy Handbook for the first candidacy says that there is a substitution and an income effect. If you look at Wikipedia, you will still find the income and substitution effect. What does that mean? If I raise your wages, you'll have more income. Will you work more? Maybe not. You might like to make more money and take some more time off. That's the income effect. The substitution effect is that you're motivated by the raise. After all, working is relatively more profitable than non-working. We do not know how these two elements relate. This requires econometric research, which can be used to fill cabinets. For the pension bonus, that's the same thing. There's the same problem. They say if you work longer, you'll have more retirement. Will people work longer? The income effect says no, the substitution effect says yes. One has to do empirical research to know what's weighing. That's why some critics of the pension bonus say I can put names on it... that one has to implement a malus in order to achieve a real effect. After all, the Economy Handbook for the first candidacy says that the income and substitution effect is both in the same direction in a malus. If one wants an effect, one must implement a malus. So it is a very complicated debate. One more element is added to that. The pension bonus as it existed before the Di Rupo government did not work well. The pension bonus as it was reformed by the Di Rupo government, I think is a very intelligent instrument. He's really smart. I wasn't there, so it's easy for me to say. Why? The pension bonus is well coordinated in terms of calibration. He encourages work. One has to work to get the pension bonus. Equivalence periods shall not apply. Moreover, the pension bonus is based on a notion of career duration. After all, he is worded as follows: "If someone continues to work longer than he actually has to, he starts to get the pension bonus." More effective than one has to be defined by a combination of age and career. The pension bonus is therefore close to what we are advocating. One has to look at the length of the career and correct it in function. So I think the pension bonus is an intelligent instrument. Does he have a clear positive effect on people's behaviour? We can put a few PhD students there and then we will have all kinds of econometric studies in ten years' time. My assumption is yes, but there is something else. There is also simply the question of social legitimacy. Then I'm not just talking about efficiency. Now I'm gonna leave the economics courses for what they're worth. They say work longer. Then the reward that hangs on it will be abolished. That's just a little weird. What I did not understand correctly is the argument that the bonus is abolished because there is no malus. That's just a little weird. I would integrate the bonus into a mechanism where there is also a negative correction. If you want to call that a malus, you can. So basically one has to have a bonus-malus. Then I come to Mr De Roover's point. It is not so complicated to link this to the problem of social stratification of life expectations. You may have misunderstood that by saying that we should then create a totally individualized system. The professor will have such a correction, the construction worker such a correction, then there is also the man who smokes and the man who does not smoke. Of course, we cannot do that. We need to create a very simple, general system. We're not done with that. The first annex of our latest opinion deals precisely with this question. We have collected a great deal of data and we are also proposing further research. Suppose one does a bonus-malus based on the career. Does the social inequality, which is unfortunately there and persistent in terms of life expectations, be sufficiently captured? Part of it. Why? That is where Mrs Becq's misunderstanding lies. Let's say that's what people do on the basis of their careers. The construction worker starts working at 18 years. The professor starts at 24 or 25 years. So one defines a normal age. For the construction worker that is 18 +45, for the professor that is much more, and one simply applies the correction to that normal age. For the construction worker who is less than 63 years old, one begins to correct. If he's over 63 years old, he gets a bonus. The professor doesn't, because his career isn't long enough. Thus, a large part of it is captured, although not completely. We document that. That's not hard. The pension bonus did. Moreover, the pension bonus in the legislation was evolving. So I would have kept the pension bonus and I would have thought about a negative correction. A negative correction is delicate. I agree with you on that. Of course, we must have enough good pensions to tell that construction worker that if he stops early, he will get less. It's got to be decent. The first question is whether pensions are good enough. Besides, if that construction worker gets sick and can't work anymore, he's not supposed to get a reduced pension. He's supposed to get a decent disability allowance. In addition, we must have other systems. That is really an important debate. I do not think it is easy, but there are general solutions to this very individual and differentiated problem. You can think of that. We are strongly in favour of this and indeed believe that the abolition of the pension bonus is a mistake. One should ask the Planning Bureau to take all these details out of their model. That's what it can do. What about average pensions, other hypotheses and so on? I think that would be a huge help to the debate. As far as life expectancy is concerned, look at the annex to our piece. I admit it's easy to write reports. It's less easy to do politics. As far as Diploma Bonification is concerned, our report says that the long-term logic is to abolish it, both for access to the profession and for calculation. That is, of course, very drastic, and it can only be done in the long term. The question then arises as to whether public office also allows people to work long enough. In the public office there are also the preferential tantiemes. That's a little bit like a majoration on points. In the report we say that the preferential tantiemes should be included in a debate on the heaviness of professions. What the preferential tantiemes do in the calculation is what a majoration does in the points. That's similar. In fact, that is the way we have to look at it. Easy to say, but it's a difficult debate. However, that is the logic of things. You ask what we think about the heavy professions. I understand the fact that today the government is reasoning in a framework of age and that a certain arrangement is being drawn up for police officers and a different one for other professional categories. Again, if one could depart from a white sheet, one would not do it with ages, but would differentiate in the calculation of the pension and its amount. It would then be said that anyone who has a heavy occupation or a heavy task gets some more points and can enjoy the general flexibility in the system. So he can leave early, because that backpack is filled enough by now. Indeed, there is no reason why you should define this in broad occupational categories. You can define that in functions. I come to Mr Daerden's questions. Maybe I'll repeat it a little bit. Is there a need for endogenous, system-based or even automatic adjustments both in terms of the definition of the required career (age criteria) and in terms of the calculation parameters? Do you need both? In our model, we actually have both. We believe that automatic adjustments are needed both in terms of requirements and in terms of calculation. But as I said a moment ago, I believe that we must first define an ambition with regard to the level where we want to arrive and, depending on that, see how we need adjustments in the calculation. It is therefore a question which still presupposes a deepening of the analysis as to where we are going. What we have presented in the report are theoretical models, reasoning, tools to define reasoning. What choice should be made? You obviously have to make political choices by defining ambitions to see where you want to go. Questions were also asked, including by Mr Daerden, about the variability of such a point system. For starters, technically there are a lot of options open. One could say that one does not want the value of the point to be determined by short-term evolutions. This means that people do not want the value of the point suddenly to be lower than in the previous year in the event of a cyclical downturn, because pensioners will be the victims of that bad moment throughout their lives. One can take a moving average. You can take a mobile scale, for example over five years. A moving average allows this to be flattened. In Germany there is a point system which I personally find rather complicated and which I think is fundamentally less secure. However, in the German point system there is a soil, it cannot work negatively; there is protection against a decline in incomes. That can be introduced if one so wishes. There are options. The essence is, and this is the social debate, that the pension of those who take up their pension should be in a fixed proportion to the income of those who work around them. It's about a replacement rate in the social field. This is a replacement rate at a macro level that we want to stabilize. Do I have to? That is precisely the social debate. The benefit ratio is not particularly high in Belgium. Stabilising seems to be the minimum objective. Of course, that also plays a part in the judgment. We would like to say to young people, let us say to my students, that they will be able to enjoy the same quality of pensions as those who retire today, expressed in terms of protecting living standards versus the living standards of the active people, and that we can guarantee that. I think that's essential. The other questions are more technical. Should we do that with a moving average? Should we build in a protection against negative evolutions? You can, you can do that. Those are choices that one has to make. I come to some of Mrs Becq's questions. I'm gonna say something that's a little complicated first. I apologize again for that. You are quite right, of course, and other people have noticed: the grandfather's tree is an absolute certainty. Those people were born, so we know that. Life expectancy and future migration balances are uncertain. We don't know him. Now we say in our report that we are giving one kind of strategic answer to this. To these various problems we give one kind of strategic answer, namely linking the parameters of the system to life expectancy. So you could say that this is weird because we have that grandfather tree, but it has nothing to do with life expectancy. That's just more people coming. Then we have life expectancy and we are told that the parameters of the system must be linked to life expectancy. We are actually quite explicit about this in the report. We say it's 2015 and the grandfather's tree is busy. So let's speed up the link to life expectancy a little bit, so to speak, to catch that grandfather tree. That grandpa tree gradually disappears again. Then the link to life expectancy must be such that one has a decent pension and further automatically evolves the system. So we are, as it were, giving one strategic answer to two strategically rather different problems, if I may say so intricately. You are quite right to say that we did not respond to economic shocks. That is a very important issue that we mention in the report but that we have not answered. Not only do we have to ensure that the value of the item is not completely cyclically sensitive, but one could work with a moving average or with a soil, as in Germany, one could also say that society should help these pension systems in a poor economic climate. One could say, for example, that in the event of a poor economic situation, the Treasury must support the systems to the extent that there is unemployment. One could, as it were, create a social contract in which one defines a balance, a mechanism in the systems, but with a damper against a bad economic situation based on the treasury. It's not that crazy to do that, but we haven't worked that out. What I did not understand is the argument that the split is not necessary when one individualizes. I believe that these are two completely different things. You described the rest well, so I'll leave it at that. Once again, the debate on the minima is not a simple social debate. I'll put it a little sharp to make it clear. The current minimum guaranteed pension in the statutory system of employees has a peculiar course. After all, we must have 30 years to do this, in which we must have had enough big jobs to get 258 days, and not many small part-time jobs. When one is ready, the door opens and from then on even one day that one has worked as a whole year counts. That's how it works now. That's a little weird, but that's how the system works now. Our proposal is to simplify and build up minimum rights pro rata. So it's not a basic pension. That would apply even to the smallest part-time job, but then there will be no break in the system, giving one the right to a full year, even if one has only worked one day. I believe that what we are proposing is logical, but I also know what the criticism is about it. If one focuses purely on the people who today enjoy the benefit of the discontinuous system, one sees that they are deteriorating. I'll say yes, but others will win. Moreover, it must be introduced in the long term. The debate on minimum pensions is a debate on how to look at part-time work. Part-time work is advancing very quickly. It is therefore necessary to build a pension system that treats part-time work correctly. Today is not really the case. Mr Lachaert, as far as the transition is concerned, we have followed a clear option in the report, namely to implement the reform at once. Do not create two parallel systems. That's terrible. We say that on a specific day we must do everything with points and not keep two calculation systems side by side. That is not easy, but it is not impossible. I do not therefore think that we should wait until 2030. That won't be necessary. That's what the coalition agreement says, but I didn't get that right. We can do that sooner, even if we can't do it tomorrow. Perhaps the 2030 misunderstanding has arisen for the following reason: if we want to allow the system to run completely endogenously, with the automatic adjustment mechanisms, we need to test it first. This can be done between 2025 and 2030, but the point system can be introduced earlier and the transition must be fully implemented. Several people have talked about working longer. Among other things, there was the question of whether the quality of our work is less good than in other countries. That depends on how it's measured. My answer is therefore no excuse. I can give you an indicator, which ensures that the quality is the same, and an indicator that produces a less good result. But at one important point, she's not as good. In Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway and countries of northern Europe people are found to work longer. There are more jobs there that are characterized by autonomy. One can measure to what extent one has independence in the job. The proportion of jobs that are well scored in terms of autonomy is significantly higher in those countries than in us. Personally, I think this is the key. Work is effort. Efforts can be tough. The question of whether it can be maintained depends on autonomy. One has everything in one's hands or one is under stress every day of things one has no control over. Why do professors or MEPs want to work until they are 85 years old? That's how we know some of them. They don't work, they do self-expression, like me. They have a very large autonomy. We are making an effort, but we have enormous autonomy. Many people want to retire because of freedom. So one also needs to build in more freedom in the lives of working people. In this respect, they score much better in northern Europe. Of course, that didn't just fall out of the sky. Mr Lachaert asked a question about the bridge pension. I will not say too much about that, because that is not the letter from our committee. So I'm not supposed to come and tell you about the bridge pension. Personally, I'd like to add a nuance. Has the bridge pension in the past helped young people to get to work? In the short term, I'm sure you will. In a study I published two weeks ago, this can be seen very clearly. In the 1980s, the employment of young people continued to improve. It continued to improve, at a time when the labour market was pretty bad. There was then a massive bridge retirement. In the short term, bridge-retirement did work. We must not deny that. That's just a fact. However, bridge-retirement does not work in the long term. In the long term, it is not right to allow the elderly to leave because more young people would then go to work. In the shorter term, we can. That's why these cases aren't done in the morning. We must take the time to do so. I do not believe in harmonisation. In particular, I do not believe in harmonisation between the self-employed and employees unless a totally different statute is created. Solidarity within the self-employed group is substantially different and much more limited. Throwing that in one pot with the employee group seems very difficult to me. We also note that self-employed workers themselves need to be responsive, which means, among other things, contributions. There were a few general comments from Mrs Temmerman and other Members on the need for consensus and coherence, in particular that a global approach is needed and that there are also difficult transitional problems. I agree with those remarks. So I will not repeat them. In fact, we have not really worked out these transitional problems in concrete terms. That wasn't our job either. However, we must be aware of these problems. I fully agree that a horizon is set and that people must be given time to prepare. This is also reflected in the debate on the statutory retirement age. I had also had questions about this. Should the statutory retirement age evolve? We actually confirm that, but the question arises when, under what conditions and with what mechanisms. Those points call for a very broad debate. That's why we didn't write in the report that it's sister or anything. We put things on the table and then we have to have a broad debate on them. That's how I've given up most of the cases. I think I've answered most of the questions. There was still a question from Mr. From Roover about the heritage. We have not quantified this, but it is a fact that has not been debated in the Commission. The need for heritage-based funding was not controversial at all. This seemed rational to us, but we did not discuss any measures or instruments. I believe that this is a logic that is necessary and that it does not diminish the need to have an advisory role but also to be a manager in the head of the traditional social actors, employers and trade unions. Today, there is alternative financing and no one has ever said that this is a reason to diminish the role of trade unions and employers in social consultation around social security. There's a connection, but it's not absolute. I think it is very important, and that was also the view of the National Pension Committee, that employers' organisations and trade union organisations can develop a certain ownership of this system and therefore that there is a genuine social dialogue, but also a permanent and in our view even more important role in the responsible management of the system. I am talking about the responsible management of the system. That is why we have developed a number of mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the end of my speech. I've given you most of the elements. There was still the question of what would happen if old wages were really revalued and not just prices. We calculated it and published it. If we do that and do not change anything else, expenditure will increase by 16% to 17% in the long term. Of course, that's priceless. That is why we are saying that for the sake of the stability of the system one should return to the old principle of real revaluation, but instead of 0.60 one should have a delta that is more limited, a lower figure. If one does not do so and one keeps it 0.60, since that breakage becomes much more interesting, then one has an explosion of expenditure in proportion to 17.6 %; so it was in a simulation that we have done. We must not, of course, do so because we believe that it is better in terms of architecture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-20-54-commissie-ic173x.u17	Under the motto "the king is dead," live the king, I will take over the role of the chairman of this committee, who has apologized for a moment. I thank the professor for his comprehensive answers to the questions. The committee is, of course, free to ask other questions in a second round if this is necessary. It also depends on the time frame available to the professor, because we cannot screw him down here as a hostage. Are there any committee members who would like to ask an additional question? By the way, I feel very much put in the spotlight here. This too may be slightly exaggerated. I would like to end the very interesting afternoon with this. Each speaker has expressed his appreciation not only for the work of the Pension Committee, but also for the work of Professor Vandenbroucke personally. I believe that this can be underlined once again. I thank him for his presence and for his comprehensive answer. I believe that we have received a whole sandwich which will greatly support the quality of our work as a Member of Parliament on this subject in the future. I wish everyone a safe journey home and until next time.
