ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u1	Mrs Claerhout is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u2	The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is an international financial institution founded by the People's Republic of China. Many see it as a competitor for the IMF, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. The United States openly criticises the AIIB, as they fear that the institution is a way to combat the American-Western influence on the world. Despite this criticism, the institution is extremely successful. It has both Asian and European members, including our neighbours. On 15 April 2015, the People's Republic of China announced the definitive list of founding members. Until 31 March 2015, countries could apply for membership. Many countries see this bank as an interesting financial and economic opportunity. For example, the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom and Germany have applied to become founding members. These countries have now also been recognised. Belgium has so far shown no interest in the institution. It is one of the few European countries that is not yet a member. What impact could the AIIB have on the IMF, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank? What is the impact of AllB at the moment? What can be the influence of AllB? Why has Belgium, unlike its neighbouring countries, not applied for membership? Can the fact that Belgium is not a member of the AIIB have a negative impact on us in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u3	It is still a little too early to draw conclusions on the impact that the AIIB could have on the World Bank, the IMF and the Asian Development Bank. The statutes and the basic rules of the AIIB are still being negotiated fairly intensively. The Chinese authorities explicitly set out for the AIIB a dynamic of cooperation and complementarity with the other multilateral development banks, in particular with the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Any accession to the AIIB will therefore not affect our position in the IMF or in the World Bank. In the meantime, these institutions have expressed their positive views on membership of the AIIB on several occasions. The proposal for the establishment of the AIIB was made by the Chinese authorities in the margins of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in Bali in October 2013. The bank was officially launched a year later by a group of purely Asian countries. In order to ensure smooth establishment, China has approached many countries directly. These are both Asian and non-Asian countries, including several European countries. However, Belgium was not approached in that first movement. The question of accession was addressed at European level in January 2015, without at that time leading to a consensus on a common position from Europe. Although Belgium was not approached directly, the government decided at the Council of Ministers about two weeks ago to apply to join the AIIB. That application was formally sent to the Chinese authorities during the past state visit. The fact that Belgium has not applied to become prospective founding member before the deadline has no impact on our relations with China or with the Asian continent in general. There is no doubt that Belgium and China have common interests. This has been confirmed again during the royal mission, which has just ended, and with the visit that the Chinese Prime Minister is currently bringing to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u5	My question concerns the implementation of Parliamentary Committee Recommendation 85. When we heard Mr. Philipsen, he noted that recommendation 85 had not been implemented, while Mr. Crombez had said that it was being implemented during his self-assessment. I wanted to know, minister, whether parliamentary initiatives need to be taken or whether you intend to implement them and how.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u6	Mr Piedboef, in August 2012, discussions on a cooperation agreement with OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, were unilaterally interrupted by OLAF at the last moment. You will find explanations in this regard in the Parliamentary Written Question No 66 put by Mr Dispa on 26 March 2015. In the new draft protocol received from OLAF in January 2014, any idea of reciprocity had been withdrawn and reference had been made only to the European Union's financial interest. OLAF has informed us that it is not prepared to renegotiate its version of the draft in order to return to a less unilateral formulation of the interests to be protected. The discussions thus failed. I can only note the lack of willingness shown by OLAF to achieve real cooperation. ISI and I, of course, regret that such a rich source of information is not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u7	Thank you, Minister. This is, of course, regrettable because it is one of the fundamental elements of this communication of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u8	Mr President, I have two other questions, but they will be very quick, since I sum them up and, in my opinion, the minister will not be able to answer them for long, do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u9	They agree, but you have to be very concise, Mr. Piedboef.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u10	Mr President, Minister, a circular from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg made recommendations to Luxembourg agents for their control. I am not aware of a Belgian circular on this subject. I'd like to know what's going on. Are we meeting the commitments made in the Gaichel agreements? My other question about these agreements concerns the increase of the Reynders Fund in the province of Luxembourg. When will the municipalities be able to receive information on the supplementary revenue in order to be able to incorporate it into their budgetary changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u11	Mr President, the agreement reached on 16 March 2014 was published on 23 March 2015 in the news of my department's website and is accessible to all. For the implementation of this agreement, the General Administration of Taxation has drafted a circular, also public, whose electronic dissemination via the Fisconetplus tax and legal database is launched today. For the practical questions raised, I can already inform you of the following. Leave days are not taken into account in assessing whether the 24-day threshold is met. This 24-day agreement is delegatory and therefore strictly applicable. Therefore, if the 24-day limit is exceeded by one day, the agreement does not apply. The 25 days spent outside Luxembourg therefore become taxable in Belgium. Belgian residents, as well as their colleagues resident in Luxembourg, can use telework. It goes without saying that these days of activities outside Luxembourg are included in the count of 24 days. As for the documents admissible to prove the worker's presence in one or the other State, my Luxembourg counterpart and I agreed on a vade mecum in the matter of evidence. Published at the same time as the text of the agreement itself, this vade mecum will also be attached to the circular. The foreign salary control action organised in 2014 by the General Tax Administration concerned taxpayers who declared a remuneration for employees of foreign origin and who requested exemption from it. Apart from employees employed in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, it targeted workers employed in another country bordering Belgium, namely the Netherlands, Germany and France, or in a country with which Belgium has not signed a preventive double taxation agreement. The total number of cases checked was 5,075, of which 2,584 concerned workers working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, i.e. slightly more than half. With regard specifically to workers employed in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, of the 2,584 cases under investigation, 1,817 were closed without further action, given the information provided by the taxpayer in response to the request for information. The total amount of basic taxable supplements is €23,897,027 for the remaining 767 cases, an average of just over €31,000 per case. Thanks to this agreement, the amount of financial compensation which Luxembourg pays to Belgium for the financing of Belgian municipalities with a significant number of residents working in Luxembourg has been increased to EUR 30 million. This amount will apply from 2015 and will be reviewed at a three-yearly rate. The effect of this revision for each municipality concerned can only be communicated after the calculation of the additional municipal cents for the 2014 tax year. Payment will be made in December 2015, as in previous years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u12	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his answers, which correspond to what I expected. I am delighted that the circular was released today, so I did well to ask my question! Given the many mobility problems between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, telework could be a solution, but I regret that, in view of tax standards, it cannot be implemented. As regards the municipalities concerned by the increase in revenue, I think that the previous revenue will be increased by about 80%. Is a rule of three applicable to adjust the budgetary modification of the forecast revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u13	How do you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u14	Since it is 30 million instead of 16, can we apply a rule of three to get an estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u16	It's a little risky.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u17	It's a little more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u18	All right. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u19	Mr President, Minister, when the rules on VAT and advance invoicing were amended in November 2012, I warned against the negative impact on business cash flow. There should also be a double flow of documents in order to ensure that the advance invoicing is consistent with VAT. In addition, accountants and accountants should keep the financial diary during the busy periods of the VAT return, while before the legislative change was carried out during the calm periods. All these comments were then snowed under the good news of the introduction of electronic invoicing. That was indeed good news. Meanwhile, we are living in 2015 and we are still in a transitional arrangement regarding the advance invoicing. In any case, I am hopeful that you intend to seek workable legislation. According to the decision of 17 April 2015, pending that amendment, the taxpayer is free to choose between the transitional arrangements or the definitive arrangements as laid down in the decision of 7 October 2014. In the transitional arrangement, the supplier may choose between the application of the old legal rules prior to 2013 or the new legal rules with the technique of the payment invitation, decision E.T.123.563 of 19 December 2012 or, third, the new legal rules with the technique of the additional entry on the invoice, namely decision E.T.124.705 of 22 November 2013. The co-contractor should follow that choice as to the deductibility of VAT. This is not the case in that definitive scheme. My questions therefore relate to the freedom of choice between the application of the transitional arrangements and the definitive arrangements and to the consequences when the supplier or service provider and the co-contractor make a different choice. First, if a supplier issues an advance invoice under the transitional arrangements with the indication of value added tax and value added taxApplication of the legislation on payment. Right of deduction arises after payment of the advance payment claim, can the customer apply the tolerance provided for in the final scheme and deduct VAT immediately upon receipt of the invoice? Or should he wait to deduct the VAT until he has paid the invoice? Secondly, if a supplier makes use of the transitional arrangements, he should not indicate a probable date of payment on the advance invoice. Is that advance invoice sufficient to allow the customer to exercise his right to deduct? In the definitive scheme, namely the decision of 7 October 2014, this is not a conform invoice if that invoice is issued more than seven days before the taxable event. Thirdly, why was the administrative decision of 7 October 2014 not repealed? I do not think that this decision is final, since the law will be amended. I have the impression that this window period makes everything more complex. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u20	According to the decision of 17 April 2015 on invoicing, Ms Wouters, the taxpayer currently has the possibility to apply either the old legal rules prior to 2013 or the new legal rules with an invitation to pay followed by the invoice, or the new legal rules on the basis of only one document, in particular the invoice with an additional indication, or the scheme with suspected due date and window. This is a transitional arrangement pending the entry into force of the new relevant legislation. If a supplier now issues an advance invoice under the transitional arrangements with the indication of the VAT and the debt-to-GDP ratioApplication of the legislation on payment. Right to deduct arises after payment of the advance payment, it is clear that one is in the third situation and the VAT can only be deducted after payment of the advance. If the supplier makes use of the old legal rules prior to 2013, the VAT will be reported separately, the supplier will have to pay the VAT immediately and the customer will be able to deduct the VAT immediately. The administrative decision of 7 October 2014 on the probably due date scheme and window, the fourth situation, was not withdrawn in order to allow those who had already adapted their systems to this scheme to continue to use it until the legislation is re-adapted. In any event, the administration will not criticise when the customer immediately deducts VAT in this situation and does not review this deduction at the end of the third month following the invoice, if the VAT would not have become due at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It all gets so complicated sometimes. I now understand why you have not withdrawn it: a number of companies have already complied with the new regime and have adapted the system. We are therefore pleased to see a final settlement and the new legislation, which I believe is coming. I hope that it will be there as soon as possible, so that we can clarify quickly for the entrepreneurs who all have to comply with it. I thank you for these precise and clear answers to very precise questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u22	Mr Minister, since January 2008, copyright fees, i.e. income from copyrighted work whose income is a remuneration for the assignment or concession of that work, have been explicitly taxed as movable income. This is stated in Article 17, § 1, 5° of the WIB 92. They are therefore not taxed as professional income, in particular below the ceiling of EUR 37 500, not indexed. In addition to this annual ceiling, Article 37 of the WIB 92 applies and, on a case-by-case basis, it will have to be determined whether this is movable income or income related to a professional activity. In the case of mixed contracts, the breakdown of such income shall be by nature, as movable income or as professional income. In so doing, the provisions of the Agreement as laid down in circular No. 36/2014. Despite the clear provision of Article 37 of the WIB 92, certain tax inspectors wish to tax the income from inheritance and copyright concession as professional income. They cite the principle of attraction in terms of managers. In the past, several rulings were granted on the percentage eligible for taxation under Article 17, § 1, 5°. Can these rulings serve as a benchmark for determining a key in the case of mixed contracts? Does the will of the parties prevail in determining a key or not? Once the breakdown has been made, can the principle of attraction, according to Article 32 of the WIB 92, be applied to copyright income falling under the ceiling of the unindexed 37 500 euros? Or is it the type of constraint that prevails here, in particular that if the legislator clearly qualifies the nature of certain income, it cannot have a different nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, the decisions of the Prior Decisions Department in tax matters are binding only on the applicant and any third parties involved in the application and decision and on the operation described therein. As I have already replied to the oral parliamentary questions by Mrs Smaers and Mr Dedecker in the Committee on Finance and the Budget of 19 November 2014, the agreement concluded by the parties is accepted by the administration in so far as that agreement corresponds to the reality. Tax law is based on that reality. In this respect, it is necessary to examine whether the revenue is actually derived from the assignment or concession of copyright. In so far as it appears that there is a concession or concession of copyright, the possible breakdown between movable income and professional income will be made on the basis of the provisions of the agreement. The principle of attraction does not apply to copyright revenue up to and including the ceiling of EUR 37 500. Such income therefore retains its status as movable income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u25	Mr President, Minister, it is the very nature of cooperative societies that they have fixed and variable capital. The fixed part of the capital can only be increased through an amendment of the statutes, which therefore requires notarial intervention. On the other hand, the variable part of the capital may be implemented without any change in the statutes and may fluctuate for the entry or exit of members. Pursuant to Article 34 of the Federal Code of Registration Rights, CVBA's are faced with an annual administrative and fiscal formality. To the extent that a capital increase has been made in specimens in the last year, the registration fee should be paid for this by offering a copy of the balance sheet for recording within four months of the closure of the balance sheet. The intention is that the tax on the net increase in capital in the past year should raise the so-called contribution fee. Since 1 January 2006, that input duty has been increased to 0 % and that rate cannot be increased under Directive 2008/7/EC of 12 February 2008. I come to my specific questions, Minister. Does it still make sense to maintain Article 34 of the Registration Rights Code? Is it not better to abolish this provision, so that CVBAs are freed from this annual recurring and tax unnecessary administrative burden? If not, what is the reason for retaining this provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, the successive European directives on indirect taxes on the raising of capital and its transposition into Belgian law have not in all cases brought the applicable registration fee to 0 %. A proportionate registration fee is still payable on the contribution by a natural person of an immovable property used or intended for residential use. Therefore, the type of contribution mentioned by you, in particular a contribution of money specifics, cannot be a contribution of a real estate used or intended for residential use. Indeed, as you say, the article in question could be better removed. Immediately, the administrative burden involved will also be eliminated. I have instructed the administration to include this abolition in the draft law on various tax provisions, which will be discussed in Parliament in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for this very positive answer. In any case, we welcome any simplification and any reduction in the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u28	The question dates back to 13 May and in the meantime we discussed it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u29	Mr President, we have already had a lot of discussions on the subject and we will do it again in plenary next week. Mr President, my question concerns a very specific point. I refer to the consultation that was planned and probably has taken place between you and the Flemish Association of Cities and Municipalities. At the time, that association said to consider going to the Constitutional Court, but to wait for consultation with the Minister. Hence my questions. How'd that meeting go? Has it provided any clarification?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u30	Mr Vanvelthoven, we have indeed had a rather long meeting with the representatives of the VVSG. We have taken note of the various aspects they raised in relation to the problem and, of course, we have discussed them with them. The amended valuation regime for the intercommunals, partnerships, project associations and autonomous municipal companies was further discussed in the government. It is part of the programme law, which you mentioned in your brief introduction and which was discussed for the first time in the Finance Committee on 23 June. Next Monday, the legal text will be discussed for the second time. The reports in committee will be clear on this point. Of course, like my cabinet and my administration, I always remain at my disposal to answer questions about the lack of clarity that would exist in cities and municipalities and to provide them with the appropriate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u31	I would like to point out, Minister, that there has been no specific adjustment in the course of the consultations? So the texts, as they were drafted, have been incorporated into the programme law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u32	In particular, we have made a number of clarifications to the VVSG delegation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u33	Fine. Or not fine, but I'll take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u34	You almost scared me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u35	Mr President, I understand that next Monday we will have the second reading of the programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u36	On Monday afternoon at 2 p.m., we will take the second reading and vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u37	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u38	Mr Gilkinet apologized because he had to attend another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u39	Minister, the press reported that the Société fédérale de Participations et d'Investissement (SFPI) had issued a call for tenders to assess the value of the Belgian State's assets. Two business banks would be responsible for this mission. Minister, do you confirm the invitation to tender issued by the SFPI? What assets will be assessed? How and according to what procedure will this mission be supervised? What will the cost be? How long are the results expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u40	Mr President, Mr Dispa, as part of the implementation of the government agreement, with a view to optimising the State shareholding strategy and in view of the objective of further reducing public debt, I have entrusted the SFPI with the task of conducting a financial and strategic analysis of the current holdings of the SFPI portfolio. In the case of BNP Paribas, Belfius, Ethias, Brussels Airport Company, Belgacom-Proximus, bpost and the National Lottery, this study must contain five main elements: the determination of a valuation range on the basis of different methods of valuation in the short and medium term; an analysis of the characteristics of the market concerned; an analysis of the company's strategy in the context of the overall economic policy; an analysis of the company's financial policy, in particular as regards the dividend policy and the financial structure; an analysis of the company's social value, taking into account the interest of all the stakeholders concerned, with particular attention to the aspect of job creation and maintenance. As far as all the other holdings in the SFPI portfolio are concerned, I also expect, and less in detail, proposals to optimize the shareholding strategy. The successful tenderer would have access to non-confidential information in the possession of the SFPI relating to the companies concerned. Where possible, consultation will also be organised with the Chairman of the Management Board, the CEO and/or the CFO of each undertaking concerned. The person in charge of the study should also naturally have an in-depth knowledge of the various sectors. In addition, the entire study will be followed by an accompanying committee composed of the SFPI and representatives of its shareholder. In order to ensure confidentiality and to avoid conflicts of interest, advisers will have to ensure that, in the course of carrying out this mission, any conflict of interest situations are avoided in their own and related companies. Upon acceptance of the mission, the advisers should clearly indicate what action will be taken in this regard. The successful tenderer must accept that, during a period of six months from the filing of the report, no personal assistance may be provided to any buyer or investor in connection with an increase in capital, a redemption of all or part of the holding or a reorganization of the undertaking concerned. As regards the award of the contract, SFPI opted for a negotiated procedure without publicity, in accordance with Article 26, § 1 of the Law of 15 June 2006 on public procurement. SFPI invited 15 investment banks to submit an offer. However, this had to be done in a consortium with local advisors. Both SFPI and I attach great importance to international financial knowledge and to the experience of the investment bank, combined on the one hand with technical knowledge that goes beyond the financial aspect such as accounting and strategic aspects and, on the other hand, with the integration of this knowledge into the specific local situation. On 18 May this process resulted in thirteen consortium offers still under the direction of an international investment bank with one or more local advisers. SFPI reviewed these offers and the consortia were able to explain their offers orally. The entire procedure was conducted at the legal level by the Liedekerke office, the legal adviser of the SFPI. On the basis of quality criteria, working methods and prices, in order of decreasing importance, the procedure resulted in a list of three consortia. In addition, I have requested that the consortium in first place on this list be presented to the Board of Directors of the SFPI as an adviser to be appointed. The Board of Directors of the SFPI then decided, on Monday 1 June, to award the contract to the consortium composed of Nomura and Leonardo for a fixed amount of €800,000 excluding VAT but all other charges included. The consortium's mission begins immediately and is due to end no later than 1 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u41	Minister, thank you for your full answer. Can you repeat the names of the organizations concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u42	There are two parts. There is a very in-depth study of BNP Paribas, Belfius, Ethias, Brussels Airport Company, Belgacom-Proximus, bpost and Loterie Nationale. For others, there will be a less in-depth analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister, like many colleagues in this House and in this committee in particular, I have been questioned by FPS Finance officials who express concern for their future and for the future of their department. They consider that their working and status conditions no longer permit them to carry out their public service tasks. On January 21 of this year, I asked you about the demotivation of the FPS Finance staff that had been revealed by a satisfaction survey. You said: "The results are currently being analysed. Working groups will be set up. It is crucial that field staff participate in interpreting results and identifying areas for improvement as a matter of priority." Minister, how do you respond to the concerns of FPS Finance staff? What follow-up did you give to the fall 2014 satisfaction survey? What are your department's objectives for staff reductions throughout the legislature? Finally, have you estimated the loss of revenue associated with the decrease in the number of controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, without going back to what has already been mentioned by my colleague Dispa, a number of e-mails are circulating, citing the difficulties encountered by some officials in your department because of the significant decrease in the number of agents. We're talking about a decrease of almost 5,000 people in six or seven years. This situation may seem paradoxical for a service that brings money into the State funds and that is needed in the fight against tax fraud. Minister, my questions are very simple. Is the reduction of staff members within your department an organizational problem or the effectiveness of your services and the missions entrusted to them? In a crucial period - including the filling of statements - should we fear difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u45	Mr President, I shall first answer Mr Dispa's questions. The results of the survey to which Mr Dispa refers do indeed show that we need to raise deficits in several areas. In terms of accountability and recognition, the establishment of a network of regional escorts allows employees to feel more involved in the policy set up by the FPS Finance. Training courses on various subjects are frequently organised in Brussels and in the Regions. In the area of well-being and diversity as well, various preventive and accompanying actions are carried out around current topics such as health or stress. In terms of career, attracting and retaining motivated talent is one of the department's most important challenges. Career accompaniment and internal coaching are developing within the Finance FPS. Several escorts are being trained at the moment. The aim is to support employees who wish to give their careers a new look or to help them evolve in their current position. Providing support to acquire or strengthen the necessary skills makes it possible to optimally propagate talent within the FPS and contributes to the motivation of employees. In order to improve the internal communication in force, 19 focus groups were organized across the country during January and February by FPS Finance communicators. For several hours, groups of collaborators composed by representative sampling were able to express themselves. Many lessons have been learned and the full results have been presented. A follow-up committee has been set up. The organizational culture is largely based on our leaders. By investing more and more in leadership, we want to raise awareness among leaders of these different roles. Their job is to distribute the objectives of their team among the employees and to ensure that these objectives are achieved, while cultivating a good working atmosphere while ensuring that everyone is motivated. As a key figure, they are both the voice of their collaborators in the hierarchy and the political ambassadors in place to their staff. The final improvement plan, following the satisfaction survey, is planned for this summer for the FPS as a whole. Actions will be cross-cutting, sometimes specific, sometimes local. The downsizing of the FPS Finances is not in itself an objective of the FPS Finances. The Department is governed by staff management rules on the basis of provisions of the civil service. It should be stressed that if the total staff of the department declines, it is useful to make the connection with the retirements of staff of the age of retirement. In addition, entry into service is carried out on the basis of the requirements set out in the staff plan and within the budget allocated to the department for recruitment. In 2015, 1,473 recruitments will continue to be carried out by the Finance FPS. A downsizing within the department does not automatically mean a reduction in the department's capacity to establish or collect taxes. The Department of Taxation has so far made many efforts to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in order to preserve its tax collection capacity. I now answer Mrs Jadin's questions. First, in recent years, the FPS Finance has actually experienced a reduction in staff. However, this does not automatically mean a reduction in service delivery. To ensure the delivery of services, some of them have been reorganized and the use of resources has been optimized. In addition, the most repetitive tasks have been automated, allowing more time to be released to ensure control tasks and better service delivery. I come to your second question. June is still a difficult time. However, every effort has been made by the FPS Finance to ensure better service delivery. To this end, the following actions have been undertaken: 1. The administration maintained the number of filling assistance sessions. For example, 1,241 filling sessions are held in 543 premises provided by the municipalities. 2. Nineteen sessions are held in shopping centres. 3. Our 290 tax services and our front offices will be open in June, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. to receive citizens. It's the last day! With regard to automation and administrative simplification, the FPS Finance is sending 2,123,596 proposals for simplified reporting this year. Citizens who receive this proposal should therefore no longer complete a paper statement or on Tax-on-web.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answer. In general, I would like to tell you that these human resources management issues are not subordinate issues and that, really, efforts must be made by the department as a whole and by you at its head, to support the motivation of the teams and improve their well-being at work and their career prospects. I am pleased that a number of actions have already been taken. I will take note with great interest of the improvement plan that you are telling us will be finalized this summer. In the head of parliamentarians, follow-up work will have to be done to encourage these efforts. On the other hand, you did mention 1,473 recruitments in 2015, but you did not hide the trend towards downsizing. On occasion, I will allow myself to rest other questions. I would like to know the evolution of the overall volume of employment, not only the recruitment figures, but also the more negative factors that influence the volume of staff in the department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u47	Mr Minister, as we know, the Copernicus project and the Coperfin Finance Department are an extensive project aimed at restructuring certain services and engaging in various phenomena of overexploitation of certain posts within your department. Of course, this is not new. We have been putting it in place for ten years and continue to put it in place! As a result, I was pleasantly surprised, Minister, by the fact that efforts to allow better harmonization between services are continuing. I have also learned of the existence of tax filing support services and I am pleased that the FPS Finance, as a public service to assist the public, is also working on these tasks. Thank you again for your very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to harass you with any questions, but you have taken a very interesting initiative and I found it important that we should be able to discuss this. If I believe the press, you have commissioned your administration to conduct a study to estimate the cost of a new cadastral equalization. It is no secret to anyone that the current real property estimate no longer reflects reality. The last equalization was in 1975. Since then, no finance minister has taken this problem with his arm. It is therefore positive that you are taking an initiative on this difficult and complex matter. One of the difficulties is the cost of such a reform. In 1997, the Conseil Supérieur des Finances valued it at 320 million Belgian francs per year. In addition to the fact that this inertia has led to large disparities in taxation, it also puts Belgium at risk with European legislation. In March 2012, for example, the European Commission issued a reasoned opinion in which it considered that the method of taxation of rents in Belgium was contrary to the free movement of capital. More recently, in September 2014, the Court of Justice rendered a judgment unfavourable to the Belgian State because of the outdated valuation of the rental value of real estate in Belgium. Minister, do you confirm that you asked the FPS Finance for a study on the cost of a cadastre review? Do you intend to proceed with equalization before the end of the legislature? Are you looking at other avenues to re-evaluate the value of real property? What are the options on your table, and perhaps on the government's side, to comply with European legislation on the free movement of capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u49	Mr Dispa, my administration has become aware of the judgment in question. This judgment, as well as the reasoned opinion sent by the European Commission on the difference in treatment between the taxation of taxable income from immovable property situated in Belgium or abroad, will require Belgium to review certain provisions relating to the taxation of property income against the tax of natural persons. Pathways should be developed and discussed within the government. I did indeed request a study to determine the operational means necessary to carry out a possible updating of cadastral revenues. This study will allow for a rational debate on the issue, a better comparison of the various options and an indication of any possible decision-making in this area. It is out of order to act with haste. Moreover, the government agreement does not provide for anything. Therefore, with all due respect, in answer to your most specific questions, I do not prejudge anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u50	Minister, thank you. You're careful and I understand it very well. It is indeed a complex subject. As long as you are not covered by the government policy statement, you are right to go step by step. Nevertheless, the problem is very real. You identified him, by the way. You would do a useful job by moving forward in a measured but nevertheless resolute manner in dealing with these problems, if only because Europe is forcing us to do so. In terms of fairness, it would probably also be an opportunity to put things down a little bit. But I understand that you need some time and advice from your administration to solve this problem. In any case, let's not let him sleep. I believe that this is a matter that really deserves to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u51	It will take a long time. Cadastral Equalization was already at the heart of the discussions in 1978; Minister Gaston Geens wanted to review this calculation. At that time, Mr. Tindemans was Prime Minister CVP and advised the Minister to discontinue these studies. This is more than thirty years old. The Prime Minister of Finance who can reform cadastral equalization will be back in history! You can try, Mr. Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u52	If I understand correctly, you advise me not to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u53	Certainly, as part of the tax shift!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u54	Mr President, before I ask my question, I would like to inform you of my wish to turn my question No 5219 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u55	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u56	Mr. Chair, Minister, we know that the government is considering other tax measures to ease the burden on labour. Among the suggested avenues, there is the taxation of rental income. We know the importance of private investment in our country's real estate assets. After the reduction in renovation and insulation premiums, the construction sector could suffer, even more than today, as the investment would be less attractive for the owners. This could slow down an important sector of our economy. Minister, isn't the rental income tax a double tax, knowing that a landlord already has to pay his property discount? With a rent tax, isn't there a risk of slowing down real estate investment in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u57	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this issue partially overlaps with the discussion we have just had. On 11 September 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union rendered a judgment unfavourable to Belgium. Indeed, Belgium's taking into account the rental value of property abroad is contrary to the principle of the free movement of capital. The problem is that Belgium taxes rents on a flat-rate basis on the basis of cadastral income. Since 1975, however, cadastral income has not been equalized, particularly because of the intervention of the then Prime Minister, Mr Tindemans. In doing so, the tax base has become obsolete. This situation has many consequences. First of all, there is an inequality of taxation between real estate situated on Belgian territory. Secondly, there is a disparity in the taxation of rents between Belgium and the other Member States of the Union. According to the press, the European Commission has decided to prosecute Belgium because it considers that property taxation in our country introduces discrimination and an advantage not in accordance with European law, to the benefit of investment in real estate in Belgium. At the same time, you asked your administration to do a study to estimate the cost of a cadastral equalization. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the European Commission has decided to prosecute Belgium following the judgment of the European Court of Justice? What does the government intend to do to respond to these potential prosecutions? Do you already have the results of the feasibility study that you entrusted to your administration regarding a new cadastral equalization? Finally, is the actual taxation of rent an option to respond to the criticisms of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, you are asking whether there is double taxation with a rental tax and a property discount. I would like to remind you that real estate revenues fall under federal jurisdiction while real estate prepayment is a regional tax. In answer to your second question, the government certainly does not aim to curb economic activity and will be careful not to discourage the creation of new jobs. Mr Dispa, to answer your question, I take the liberty of referring you to my answer to your question No 4479. I also confirm that the European Commission has referred the matter to the Court of Justice. The feasibility study that I have already mentioned in my answer to your above-mentioned question will be carefully analysed before any position is taken. I repeat once again that there is nothing in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the correction. We will consider the proposals that will be tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u60	Minister, you are consistent from one answer to another. You're always as careful as you are. There's one question you haven't answered. It's a theoretical question. It was not about a possible intention of the government: it was about whether the actual taxation of rents would be an assumption that would respond to the criticisms of the European Commission. Is that a possible answer? I imagine that the feasibility study to which you refer will bring a panel of possibilities and that this will be part of it. You will then see what follow-up you will reserve to these possible suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u61	Since Mr Mathot was absent, his question No 4470 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, the situation in Greece is changing from hour to hour and I will review my question, which was dated 4 May and which I had not had the opportunity to ask you. The Eurogroup, where you sit, plays an increasingly important or even crucial role in the management of this issue. Everyone is talking about the financial cost of the Greek dossier, which is obviously not negligible, but it cannot call into question the values of solidarity implied by European projects and the euro. No one seems to take into account the social, psychological and historical cost of exiting Greece from the euro area. For weeks, with the apotheosis we have experienced this weekend, we have seen a real denial of democracy vis-à-vis Greece. Austerity continues its course in defiance of the facts and the attitude of the European Union is unsustainable not only for the Greeks but for the European Union as a whole. For our group, if the reforms requested of Greece in exchange for a rescheduling of the debt involved administrative reforms, we can obviously be demanding, as in the fight against corruption. But reducing pensions, the salaries of state agents, increasing VAT are situations that the Greeks cannot accept after five years of suffering, and neither do we. Behind the brutality with which this Member State is treated, it is the very essence of the European project that is aimed at when it is a democratically elected government that defends for its people decent pensions, jobs, hope for its youth and health care for all. Minister, what position did you defend in the Eurogroup this Saturday? Where are we today? Several proposals are on the table. We're getting a little lost. There is a proposal on which Greece must vote by referendum. Another proposal followed. What requests are currently being made to Greece? How do you explain that none of the monetary revenues imposed on the euro area have generated the expected growth and prosperity? Beyond the Greek case, what is your position to provide structural solutions to improve European solidarity and to provide a structural solution to sovereign debts? What do you think about the announced increase in the weight of the Eurogroup in the European Semester and in the day-to-day management of the Member States? Is Ecofin not replacing Heads of State and Government, and above all parliaments, and more fundamentally our democratic values of policy choice in order to achieve European objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u63	Mr President, Minister, this dossier is currently evolving every hour, so my question is already somewhat dated, although I have put it constantly up to date by asking about the state of affairs. Last weekend, we learned that during the crucial night of negotiations, all negotiators were surprised by a tweet that insinuated that Prime Minister Tsipras was no longer waiting for the outcome of the negotiations, but simply announced a referendum immediately to see whether the people accepted the proposals of the IMF, the ECB and the European Commission. You might find such a referendum democratic, but personally, I think it is rather a concealment of responsibility or the discharge of responsibility for the failure of consultation on the people, which I find irresponsible. True leaders do not lead and hide behind the people. Unfortunately, we see the opposite in this dossier. Minister, I would have liked to know exactly what happened during that crucial night of negotiation. What proposals has the Greek Government made? Were some of these proposals acceptable or largely unacceptable? Did the Greek government stick to some kind of waiver until the last time? You know that I would find that irresponsible, because EUR 107 billion has already been forgiven to Greece. I assume that further forgiveness is impossible, but that a redeployment and spread over time can of course be done, because then there are always pistes to be found. In fact, a recast has already taken place to a large extent, but I think we should avoid that oil stain spreading to other countries which will then queue up to ask for a waiver. What's the next move? Within a few hours, there will be a deadline on which EUR 1.6 billion will have to be repaid to the IMF. What if that refund doesn't happen? That's a default, I suppose. How will that evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u64	Mr.Minister, I am glad to hear you live since on Thursday we had to ask Mr. Jambon who represented you and who is, it is not an insult to say so, less aware of the file than you are. We had an early debate this morning with the Prime Minister in debriefing of the European Summit. He told us that things were not much discussed at the European summit but were entrusted to the Eurogroup and also to the IMF, with the democratic questions that could arise. We are all concerned about the outcome of the relationship between Greece, the IMF and the euro area. In plenary, on behalf of our group, I felt that an exit from Greece from the euro area does not seem to us to be an option because everyone would lose both the Greek people and the other economies concerned, including ours. We must be able to respect the democratic sovereignty of the Greek Government, at least as regards the means to be used to improve the internal budgetary situation in Greece. We learn that the IMF would refuse some avenues for improving Greece's internal fiscal situation, including an increase in corporate taxation. Thirdly: in our view, the logic of austerity has shown its limits and if Greece is in this situation today, it is certainly because of historical mistakes, but also because of an too harsh austerity cure that risks killing the patient. Fourthly, it is necessary to give Greece time to be able to recover. What is the situation today? Every hour brings new information but you are probably one of the ones who is most aware of what is happening, hence our interest to hear from you. What is the latest information on this difficult negotiation? What is the role of the IMF in this negotiation? I distinguish between the democratically appointed members of the Eurogroup and the IMF which is not. Do you confirm that the IMF has refused any leads put on the table by the Greek government for new budgetary revenue? What is Belgium's position on this issue? I hear colleagues, including Mr Dedecker, commenting quite hard on the issue. What is the government's view? What is Belgium's preferred scenario for an exit from the crisis? What are the next steps in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, this also gives us the opportunity to get an up-to-date state of affairs from the Minister. It's crucial days and hours. We have had an exchange of views in Parliament on several occasions, but perhaps the Minister could give a more detailed account of the current state of affairs. Parliament is certainly entitled to information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u66	Mr President, I will try to answer the questions asked by first giving you an overview of what has happened over the last three days. On Friday, there was still some optimism that an agreement under the programme expiring at midnight was still possible between the Greek government and the three institutions (the European Central Bank, the IMF and the Commission). The latter received from the Eurogroup a negotiating mandate, not a decision-making mandate, with the Greeks or the Greek government. All of a sudden, to the surprise of all the parties present, the Greek negotiators left the table. Half an hour or an hour later, Prime Minister Tsipras announced the holding of a referendum. This was very surprising for all the parties involved in these negotiations or discussions within the Eurogroup or at the level of Heads of Government. There had been no previous reference to such an initiative. Even today, the purpose of the referendum is not clear at all. Many points were on the table between the institutions and the Greek government. There were no conclusions, there were a lot of discussions. In this case, it was agreed that the three institutions would submit a proposal to the Eurogroup, which was then studied and discussed within the Eurogroup with the institutions and the Greek government represented by its Finance Minister. This leads to a conclusion and most likely to changes in the proposals of the three institutions. This process could not take place because on Friday night the Greek negotiators suddenly left the negotiating table. That has, of course, created a less pleasant atmosphere with regard to the further development of things. During the discussion on Saturday, of course, the possible outcome of the referendum was discussed. Apart from the question of what exactly is being presented to the Greek people, there was mainly discussion about what would happen if the Greek people voted yes or no. Once again, I do not comment on the content of the question put. If the Greek people respond to the proposals of the three institutions and the Eurogroup, we heard that the Greek Government would indeed implement the proposals. It caused some consternation and silence. It seems rather strange to us that a government should ask citizens, on the one hand, to vote no but, on the other hand, to implement the proposals if they vote yes. That does not seem credible to me, to say the least. The question of what would happen if the Greek people voted no was actually not answered. I did not see it myself, but I heard yesterday that Mr Tsipras is promising his resignation in unclear terms. In this context, it seems to me a slightly more logical attitude. At least it's unclear. The IMF will lose EUR 1.6 billion. It seems that Greece will not be able to repay and thus de facto will be in a default state. Officially, the IMF talks about it in Arrears. That is a question of terminology. The reality is that at that time there will be a default situation which will have all kinds of legal and possibly political consequences. However, it is above all an important new feature for the European Central Bank. It treats countries with or without defaults in a different way. I will not comment on what that means for the ECB. I strictly respect the independence of the ECB. This institution has proved itself to be able to carry out its task very well during the period of its existence. I have every confidence that she will now. I'm not commenting on what she should or shouldn't do. I am convinced that everything will work out correctly, with due consideration for Greece and the Greek people. Let me make it clear again what else I have done in plenary: there are many misunderstandings about the implementation of the programme. A programme has indeed been agreed with Greece. Just look at the results. Where are we today? The economy has now shrunk for almost a third, the unemployment rate is between 25% and 30%, youth unemployment is 60%. Who doesn't get quiet about that? The point is, however, that further analysis shows that today's programme, which is so disputed, has been implemented at most in a very partial way. A few savings have indeed been made. There's no denying that. Sometimes this has been done in a fairly bold way. However, the whole programme agreed between Greece and the Eurogroup and the European entities in general included far more than budgetary savings. It included rather detailed plans for economic reform, including of the labour market but certainly not only the labour market, also of product markets and of the whole system of tax collection, which is medieval, with all due respect for the Greek state and population. The reform of the pension system has also had little or no impact in recent years. Today, saying that the programme for Greece has failed is, in fact, to a large extent not justified for the simple reason that the programme, as presented and agreed, has been partially implemented at most. What were the main reasons for Prime Minister Michel's attitude in the discussions at the level of the Heads of State or Government and my attitude at the level of the Eurogroup? This can actually be summarized around two themes. Of course there must be solidarity with the Greek people. That is a first point of departure. I make the bill: more than 300 billion have already gone to Greece. There's already been forgiveness. Greece, despite its very high public debt, in terms of interest burden as a percentage of GDP, has an interest burden that is lower than that of countries such as Italy and Portugal. It cannot therefore be said that there has been no substantial, great solidarity and that there is still a great willingness, with a loud voice, to confirm this solidarity. The second dimension of the government's attitude is that we should absolutely not do anything that would jeopardise the future of monetary union. That is also an important point. Of course, the Greek Government has its electoral and democratic legitimacy. No one's questioning that. Of course, the Greek Government has every right to hold a referendum. However, there is also a responsibility for both the Greek Government and the 18 other countries of the euro area to ensure that monetary union, which has been in difficulty for a few years now, does not become even more difficult due to decisions affecting a number of fundamentals of monetary union, and hence of the European Union. That has to do with discipline and credibility. In the short term, it also has to do with the following. If we were to respond to the demand for debt cancellations, it would be obvious that we would immediately be faced with similar questions from other countries, which today are also heavily indebted and which in the past, as far as the implementation of the programme is concerned, have always dealt with the programme in a much more complete and robust way than in the case of Greece. Finally, I would like to make it clear once again that there is no one who wants a Grexit. There is no one who wants to evict Greece from the eurozone. If that unfortunate fact were to occur, it could only be the result of decisions and attitudes of the Greek Government. To some extent we can try to respond to this, but ultimately the Greek Government is an autonomous government with its own legitimacy in Greece itself. But again, nobody wants a Grexit. If it ever comes to that, given the attitude adopted by the eighteen other countries, this is due to the attitude of the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u67	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I hear you speak of solidarity with the Greek people. If I welcome this, it would be high time to add the words. It is now that we need to show that Europe can also be a social Europe. I asked you about the different measures that were on the table, because several versions circulated. As you say yourself, we no longer know what the referendum will be about, which is regrettable. Indeed, there was a breakup, but we can wonder what led to that breakup. It is the proposals that are on the table that are difficult to accept for the Greek government, but ultimately also for the Greek people. Nevertheless, the Greeks must make an effort. You cited the example of the tax administration. In terms of improving administrations and public services, there is certainly a lot to be done, in terms of fighting corruption too, but when we ask a people who have been in arrears for so many years to make efforts in terms of pensions, wages, VAT, it is unacceptable and a government could not endorse such conditions. Since we do not have the latest details on the table, it is difficult to say. I call for the necessary solidarity and the fact that it would be high time for the Heads of State to take matters into their own hands, because we have the impression that it is within Eurogroup or IMF technicians that decisions are made, which is also a denial of democracy for me. We will be attentive to the events that will take place in the next few hours and before Sunday. I also asked the Prime Minister a question, which was withdrawn earlier so that he could be asked in plenary on Thursday, where the debate will certainly still take place. I hope that by then there will be progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. If the Greek people answer yes to the referendum, one may first ask whether the IMF's proposals will still be valid. This is not clear from the communication on this subject. As you say, it would be very unbelievable if a government that explicitly rejects these proposals would still implement them if the people said yes. That would be awesome. Indeed, it is striking that they have run away and systematically communicate about the proposals of the IMF, the ECB and the European Commission, without actually making constructive counter-proposals in which there is no debt discharge. It would be expected that the Syriza leadership party, the sister party of a number of parties in this Parliament, would come up with proposals for a genre of national taxes, for example by taxing the wealthy shipowners. I have seen very little of that, it is a pity that no constructive proposals have been made. I support your plea that it is not a question of a lack of solidarity. On the contrary, there has always been solidarity with the Greek people. I spoke of a previous debt discharge of 107 billion: it is the seventh time in history that Greece is getting a debt discharge. If we look at this in the longer term, there has always been solidarity. She's still here today, too. Looking at the offer made by Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, there is still some EUR 35 billion to be invested in the economy and development of Greece. The condition is that the country reform, that it tackles the rigid administration and corruption. These are substantive reforms that go further and are different from gross savings. We must continue to convey that message. Solidarity is still there. What happens there is something no one wants. Let it also be a lesson for us, especially for those who criticize the substance of the reforms. We can all decide that if one does not control one's debts, one falls into the hands of the creditors and is subject to their demands. In that case, any sovereignty must be forgotten. That is why my group supports this government's approach to reducing deficits and debt: that is the only way to preserve our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u69	Minister, thank you. A lot of things hit me in this case. First of all, these are the different interpretations of people sitting at the same table. You give us an explanation from the point of view of the members of the Eurogroup, while we hear from the representatives of the Greek Government a feeling of humiliation, a lack of respect for them, a disproportionate role of the IMF in the imposition of the way of returning to a certain form of budgetary balance. This raises the question of respect for democratic sovereignty. Our State would not accept it if it were to do so. In any case, it is important to avoid the waste of exiting Greece from the euro area, default, inability to repay, with budgetary or, at least, financial consequences for our country. I would therefore like to know whether, within the Eurogroup, anyone has taken the lead in finding a solution that is acceptable to everyone. This morning, I was surprised to learn that this issue had been discussed very little at the meeting of the Heads of State and Government and that it had been entrusted only to the Ministers of Finance. It is time to find a solution acceptable to everyone and which, I repeat, respects the sovereignty of the Greek people in the way of returning to balance. He himself must live up to his commitments, I do not disagree, as long as they are tenable. We are well aware of the limitations of austerity, especially in terms of poverty. It will probably take time and a renegotiated agenda with the Greek people. I hope that the latest proposals will lead to a consensus favouring an early exit from the crisis. The worst would be that no one would feel responsible for what is happening or that some would throw oil on the fire. You yourself have made quite harsh statements. I still intend to call into question the Greek people and the present government, which is solely responsible for the decisions taken since January, since it was not in place before. I am not going to import discussions that belong to Greek policy, but I find that we need to be measured and respectful. It's one of the conditions for getting out of it. Indeed, when a people feels humiliated, they hide. This is probably what is happening in Greece at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u70	We will certainly come back to that. President Zoé Konstanto-poulou did not come to Brussels on Monday because of the circumstances, but she wrote in a letter that she would like to come in the next few weeks. Allow me to add another personal note. I regret, however, that from Belgium, for example, Di Rupo's PS expresses its solidarity with Prime Minister Tsipras and actually agrees to a no-no-no with regard to the European institutions. This is surprising for a former Prime Minister and also for a party that has always approved the six-pack in the past and has always shown solidarity with the decision-making process at European level. Ecolo also supports Prime Minister Tsipras for a piece. I appreciate your nuanced attitude today, Mr Gilkinet, but I want to make it clear that a majority of this House supports the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in the events of recent weeks and months. This is in line with Belgium's views on currency union. There has always been sufficient flexibility in the negotiations. Mr Di Rupo is almost the only socialist in Europe to do so. Seventeen Ecofin members agree, including Minister Dijsselbloem of the Socialist Party in the Netherlands, French President Hollande and German Deputy Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel of the SPD. They are fully behind the line of the Ecofin Council and its representatives. Mrs Konstantopoulou did not come to Brussels this week. I regret that the voice of the opposition in Europe resounds as the voice of Belgium. It is polemical what I say, and it goes beyond my role as President, but in these circumstances it may be said that the majority in this House supports the government. It is very surprising to read in the press that the former Prime Minister of Belgium supports Prime Minister Tsipras in total rejecting European politics. I must say that I absolutely do not understand that in terms of opposition. Anyway, I've opened up the polemic. I'm not supposed to do that as chairman. I'm trying to push the limits a little bit. Mr. Crusnière, you probably feel addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u71	Mr President, I have little parliamentary experience, although in another life I have seen quite a lot of debate, and I must admit that I am really surprised at your attitude. It is not common for a president, in a question-and-answer session, to take positions like the one you have just taken. I really think that you are getting out of your role as president and that this kind of attitude is not very respectable. I will not reply here to the various criticisms you have made, because this dossier will certainly come back, no later than Thursday, in plenary session. I continue to say that our group is calling for a negotiated solution and certainly not for an imposed solution, as is the case at present. The democratic choices of that country must be respected. When we talk about solidarity, we need actions, not words. We will therefore have the opportunity to return to the subject next Thursday. Once again, I think you're out of your role as committee chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u72	Mr President, I was also very anxious earlier to interrupt previous speakers. It is not correct for the chairman to exercise the right to speak, while the other committee members are not allowed to do so. If it bothers you, you may also have to ask a question on a particular subject, but I do not think your approach is correct with regard to the other members of the committee. I'm not going into the content. We also have a nuanced idea about this. If you want it, it's allowed, while we don't like it when we want it. I regret that you have done so. You may criticize the opposition, but do so during a contradictory debate and not in a debate in which only the President may speak and the rest must remain silent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u73	Mr. President, you often provoke us. You're a little atypical president, Mr. Van Rompuy. I appreciate your freedom of speech, but that is indeed a limit. I am not defending Mr. Di Rupo here. In any case, we have the merit of seeking coherence. The Greens are part of the coalition in Greece with Alexis Tsipras. It's a small party with a government representative. His intention is to try to rebuild a country that was in bad shape at the time of the election and to get out of this crisis situation by questioning the austerity solutions that were brought to Greece and elsewhere in Europe and that, overall, we are contesting. I have proposed that you meet the President of the Greek Parliament. We understand why she didn't come on Monday. I regret this because I believe that a dialogue with people who are politically active in Greece will allow for a better understanding of each other's views. As I said in my speech, humiliation is not a solution. Today, however, it is widely felt by the Greek people and leaders, rightly or wrongly. I would really like to invite our colleagues to avoid plucky judgments. As Europeans, we have a collective responsibility to find a solution to the crisis. That is why I call on the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to moderate their remarks. We can be tough in negotiations without humiliating. I repeat: the austerity which is now being applied throughout Europe and particularly towards the most fragile countries leads them to a particularly difficult situation which is a democratic threat to the European edifice today. We are very concerned and we hope that people will take their responsibilities at European level to facilitate an exit from the crisis that will allow everyone to get out of it with their heads high.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u74	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, until the last moment efforts have been made to reach a solution. I just received a message announcing a telephonic conference at 4:30 p.m. Mr President, I apologize for this, but I will have to be away at 4:20 p.m. I believe that this proves that until the last moment attempts are being made to prevent the suffering. However, as I said on Sunday in the journal, it takes two to tango. The opposing party must be prepared to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u75	Thank you, Minister. I think it is important that we were able to exchange views during these crucial hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Wilmès' 4502 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 4540 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u77	Mr President, Mr Minister, on 19 May, in a hearing before the Walloon Parliament's Economy Committee, Mrs EI-Khoury, an analyst and legal inspector with the Financial Information Processing Unit (CTIF) said the following about the financing companies of the federated entities: "Public companies which depend, by or large, on federated entities, when confronted with suspicion, that they think that the funds examined appear to come from suspicious activities, they are not in a position at present to report this to the Financial Information Processing Unit. Only professions and entities that are listed in the 1993 Act may do so. Therefore, she will be helpless in the face of these suspicions, but it is only on the assumption that she will be given investigative power. It is only a marginal discretion that is intended to check whether all the entries are included in the loan. At that time, my remark is not worth it." (Summary report from the Walloon Parliament). Minister, do you confirm that the funding agencies of the federated entities cannot transmit information to CTIF? Do you consider this to be a problem in the fight against money laundering? If so, do you intend to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u78	Mr de Lamotte, as the law currently stands, only officials of the administrative services of the State are required to transmit information to the CTIF when, in the performance of their duties, they find facts which they know or suspect to be related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism. The funding bodies of federated entities cannot therefore transmit information that would enable CTIF to exercise its full analytical powers. While the fact that the funding agencies of the federated entities cannot report to the CTIF facts or transactions likely to be linked to money laundering or terrorist financing may appear to reduce the effectiveness of combating these phenomena, this assertion must certainly be nuanced. The same facts or operations may be found by other institutions which are subject to the anti-money laundering preventive mechanism and may therefore bring them to the attention of the CTIF. The law of 11 January 1993 should be revised as part of the transposition of the fourth European anti-money laundering directive. The issue of the submission to the preventive mechanism of bodies dependent on federated entities could be addressed at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer. Our wish is to be able to address this issue in the revision as you have announced, so that it can be part of your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u80	Question No 4584 by Mr Benoît Friart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Wouters had to leave the committee meeting earlier to go to another meeting. She was telling me that she might have a question with this one that she would have liked to ask. I'll wait for her to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u82	You can go on. The meeting is almost over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u83	You'd rather I ask the question. I guess she's not mad at me for asking the question about your request, Mr. President. Minister, the government wants to raise the VAT exemption to EUR 25 000 from 1 January next. In January 2013, the European Council authorised Belgium to exempt taxable persons whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 25 000 from VAT. In April 2014, the ceiling for the VAT exemption was raised from €5,580 to €15,000. Minister, do you intend to raise the ceiling for the VAT exemption to 25 000 euros as of 1 January 2016? What has led the government to change its views on this issue? How can we justify an increase in the franchise? Did you evaluate the increase in the deductible to EUR 15 000 in the fight against tax fraud? What is the budgetary impact of an increase to EUR 25 000?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u84	Mr President, Mr Dispa, as announced in the Government Agreement and after evaluation, the Council of Ministers has in fact approved a preliminary draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code, raising the threshold for duty-free treatment from EUR 15 000 to EUR 25 000. This amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2016 provided that Belgium obtains authorisation from the Council on the basis of Article 395 of the VAT Directive. Given the limited number of obligations to which taxable persons benefiting from this particular scheme are bound, this measure will have an additional stimulating effect on the development of small businesses and will be an incentive to start an activity as an independent. However, certain activities remain excluded from this scheme in order to avoid possible fraud and ensure fair competition. These include taxable persons who regularly perform real estate work and those who are active in the Horeca sector, who are required to use the cash register system. The budgetary impact of this threshold increase is estimated on an annual basis at EUR 44 million against the Treasury. However, this is the estimate of the net loss of VAT revenues. Potential returns to the rest of the economy are not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u85	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive information. I assume that once the draft is finally approved by the Council of Ministers, we will have an opportunity to discuss it again. This will allow us to establish the right measure between the advantages you expect and the disadvantages, in particular in terms of budgetary impact or the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u86	Mr President, Minister, this issue has been important since the banking crisis we have experienced. On 27 May, the European Parliament's Economy Committee voted against the proposal for a reform of the banking model proposed by the Commission to isolate the most risky activities. Following this vote, the European Commission's proposal may never materialise. Minister, what is the government's position on the Commission's text and on the follow-up to this negative vote? In the event of a definitive rejection of the current text, will you support a new proposal from the European Commission on this matter? On the substance, do you think that the problem of the banks too big to fail is completely solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u87	Mr President, Mr Dispa, we do not interpret the European Parliament's negative vote as a signal of definitive failure of the European Commission's proposal. We see significant progress in the negotiations on the proposal in the Council. Compromise seems to have been found on many aspects of the original proposal, which was originally controversial. These compromises have resulted in major changes to the draft regulation compared to the original text published by the European Commission. The Belgian Government maintains its support for structural reforms and notes that such measures have already been incorporated into the 2014 Banking Act, notably in Articles 117 to 133 of the said Act, as well as in the Royal Decree approving the Regulation of the National Bank of Belgium on own account trading activity. In the event of a failure of the proposal for structural reform at European level, the Belgian measures will continue to apply. At the same time, the Government considers it desirable that a European regulation on this matter be adopted provided that objectives similar to Belgian measures are pursued. They have indeed served as a model in the negotiations in the Council. Several elements of the Belgian trading regime have been incorporated into the amendments to the European Commission's proposal. The issue of too big to fail is finally resolved. Structural banking reforms are driven by the idea that allowing banks to combine commercial banking and trading activities could help increase their risks and complexity, making the orderly resolution of a failing bank more difficult. This objective is even more important with regard to banks of systemic importance. We believe that structural reforms are an integral part of the reforms introduced since the crisis to strengthen the solvency of banks and to improve the ability to solve, if necessary, a failing bank. Therefore, I believe that we have made a great deal of progress in the treatment of too big to fail syndrome, but we must certainly remain very vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u88	Mr Minister, I fully agree with your conclusion and I note positively the glimmers of hope that you have shown with regard to the follow-up given by the Commission and by the Council to the negative vote. I understand that discussions are still under way and that agreement could very well be reached on the measures to be adopted. This must be done and I encourage you to maintain our country's ability to promote compromises on this issue. Indeed, an agreement at European level would be desirable in all respects, especially if it were based on measures taken at Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u89	Mr President, Minister, on 29 May the Court of Auditors published an audit report on transactions involving tax offences. This report was carried out on the basis of recommendation 37 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases, which aimed to "record the actions of the administration in terms of friendly settlements in a register transmitted to the Court of Auditors which will report annually to the House, respecting the privacy and anonymity of the taxpayers". The Court of Auditors' report mentions the existence of an instruction of 29 September 2014 and states: "However, the instruction remains vague as regards the treatment of the substance and the conditions under which the tax administration might agree to the proposal." In order to ensure uniform treatment, the Court of Auditors recommends in particular "to register the agreements for the transaction which took place between 16 May 2011 and 29 September 2014 and to draw up a report on the follow-up to them." Minister, have you read the final version of the Court of Auditors' report? Do you intend to adapt the instruction of 29 September 2014 to respond to the observations and remarks of the Court? Do you intend to follow the recommendations contained in this audit report? Will you create a register with all transactions, as provided for in Recommendation 37 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry and the report of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u90	Mr President, Mr Dispa, the Court of Auditors itself writes in its report that prior to the publication of the joint statement of 29 September 2014, "no registration or reporting was organised. It was therefore impossible during the preliminary study to obtain a correct list of agreements already given in respect of tax transactions." The Court of Auditors, however, rightly adds that "the new instruction therefore seems to regulate in a formal way the treatment, registration and uniform reporting for the future." The investigation therefore takes into account the recommendations contained in the Court of Auditors' report in this respect. As mentioned by the Court of Auditors, the SPF has previously pointed out that a report on transactions concluded before the date of publication of the above-mentioned instruction "cannot generate exhaustive and reliable statistics because it could only be based on the memory of the agents concerned." I confirm this point of view, but I note that a report will be completed for any transaction file initiated prior to the effective date of the investigation and completed after September 29, 2014. So far, the reporting figures are as follows. Tax transactions: 44 of which 4 are in the process of being concluded. As far as refusal decisions are concerned, the figures of the reporting established by the above-mentioned circular investigation show that they are particularly rare. Three quarters were identified and were motivated either by the fact that the number of existing tax offences was higher than the number included in the transaction proposal, or by the fact that the proposal did not result in the full refund of the tax owing. In view of the fact that refusal decisions remain isolated, the establishment of a list of possible grounds for refusal has so far not been considered appropriate. However, the above-mentioned instruction could be adapted to this effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u92	Mr President, Minister, since 2011, income from stocks, fairs, book rentals and so on has been regarded as movable income by the tax authorities. The granting of concessions is also covered by that scheme. Since cities and municipalities are covered by the tax on legal persons, that income was subject to the withholding tax. It is interesting to note that the city of Turnhout has gotten right in a dispute with the tax authorities about the taxable value of market and fairground rights. Those stands are considered to be real estate. The income from certain concessions for cafeterias is also considered as real estate income, in so far as the main purpose of the agreements is the passive provision of immovable property. In that case, the federal government must repay the amounts collected, as well as any interest and court fees. There is no clear statement on or solution for the lending of books yet. An exception should actually be applied to this, in the sense that such income should be added to the exceptional list of income from products subject to withholding tax. It is important to consider what we can do as a result of the verdict. I have already prepared a legislative proposal on this subject and have already put forward questions about it. Minister, will the tax administration accept the court's ruling or, if necessary, appeal? Will a circular be developed in order to arrive at a clear interpretation? After all, the judgment is problematic for cities, municipalities and provinces that want legal certainty. What exactly is the withholding tax collected? Are we talking about peanuts or substantial amounts? Will the administration pay back or will it organise the cases in such a way that not everyone has to sue and that what has been wrongly collected or which is not in line with the interpretation that has been given in the judgment on the city of Turnhout will simply be repaid? I also have a political question. Are you considering an exception for local authorities or are you thinking of including this in a tax pact with the cities and municipalities? That is the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u93	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, I can tell you that my administration is currently examining whether the judgment of the Antwerp Court of First Instance of 10 December 2014 will be appealed. It therefore seems premature at present to draw up a circular which would show that the administration is in line with the position set out in the judgment. With regard to the introduction of an exemption from withholding tax for local authorities, it should be noted that, in accordance with Article 221, 2° of the Income Tax Code 1992, all legal persons subject to the tax are taxable on the income and income of movable property and capital. The income tax referred to in Article 221 2° shall, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 225, be equal to the withholding tax. These are both legal persons governed by public law who are unconditionally subject to legal personality tax and legal persons governed by private and public law who do not operate an undertaking or engage in profitable transactions or are not subject to corporation tax under Articles 181 and 182. The introduction of an exemption from withholding tax for local authorities in the case of non-profit-making transactions is therefore not evident, as this could lead to local authorities no longer being liable for withholding tax, whereas another private or public legal person who is also subject to the tax on legal persons is liable for withholding tax on such or similar transactions. However, I can tell you that the services of the General Administration of Taxation have set up a working group, together with representatives of the municipalities, where the problem of withholding tax mentioned will be discussed further and where it will be considered whether possible sustainable solutions can be developed. At present, it is therefore necessary to wait and see whether or not the FPS Finance will appeal against the judgment cited and what the outcome of the discussions in the above-mentioned working group will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u94	I note, Mr Minister, that the judgment of the Court of Justice, and not the judgment of the Court of Justice, as I have just said, must therefore be examined further. This issue, as you say, is not evident. The establishment of a working group is a very good thing. In this way the possibilities can already be explored, together with the municipalities. I look forward to the conclusions of that working party before further intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u95	Mr President, this is a question that was tabled in early June. Maybe it's out of date. We learned from the press, Mr. Minister, that a circular would be being prepared to place Luxembourg on the list of tax havens. This circular is the result of a 2010 law which states that countries on the OECD list of tax havens must be recognized as such by Belgium. In concrete terms, all Belgian companies will now have to declare any transaction with this country in excess of 100 000 euros, if in fact you had to confirm the content of this circular. This concerns a large number of Belgian companies, Luxembourg being a privileged financial centre for Belgians. The objective of the law was very clear: it was necessary to have transparency in relation to the activities of Belgian companies established in Luxembourg. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this circular? Could you tell us exactly what it contains? Does this position follow the OECD decision in February 2015 to classify Luxembourg as "non-compliant"? If not, what are the motivations? Will this position be taken into account by your services in the context of the ongoing renegotiation of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation with Luxembourg? This renegotiation seems to be moving towards a relaxation, which does not seem to be consistent with the categorisation of Luxembourg as a tax haven? Can you tell us how remittance returns are currently processed and how many officers (full-time equivalents) are still assigned to this follow-up? What follow-up will you order once the information is collected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u96	Mr Laaouej, the circular mentioned by the press does exist and will be published very soon. With regard to your second question, this is an addendum to the circular of 30 November 2010. This circular concerns the obligation to report payments made to persons established in two categories of State and the tax deductibility of such payments. The addendum deals only with the category of States that do not effectively and substantially implement the international standard for transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes. In concrete terms, they are those States that have been assigned a non-compliant assessment by the global forum, which ensures the implementation of the international standard. In this regard, it is important to emphasize that these are not tax havens but cooperative States, i.e. States that have committed themselves to the international standard. Belgium is convinced that the vast majority of co-operative States which, at first stage, have not achieved a positive result, will make every effort to align themselves in the short term with the international standard. Third, the development of the addendum was already announced in the initial circular of 2010 and is a follow-up to the publication, as early as November 2013, of the ratings by the global forum. Last year, my predecessor had already informed Parliament of the consequences of the publication of these reports. This is not a new Belgian position but a confirmation, by means of a circular, of what had already been announced earlier. Fourthly, I would like once again to stress that neither Belgium nor the global forum regard co-operative countries, which are currently considered non-compliant, as tax havens. As far as Luxembourg is concerned, an amendment was signed on 16 July 2009 in order to bring the Belgian-Luxembourg double taxation convention into line with the international standard. Fifth, the FCA analyses the payments in question via Form 275F attached to the annual income tax return. After analysis, some files are submitted for pre-investigation or investigation to the operational department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u97	Mr Minister, thank you for confirming that, in future, financial transactions to Luxembourg will have to be the subject of an ad hoc declaration. We will therefore await the publication of the circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u98	Question No 4764 by Mr Gilkinet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u99	Mr President, Minister, in an answer to a written question published last May, you said that in 2010, the French tax authorities had given the ISI a cd-rom with information about 829 taxpayers, customers of the HSBC Bank. After analysing this information, the ISI selected 494 potential files for further investigation. The tax control of the selected files was distributed between the ISI and the tax authorities. A number of files selected by the ISI have not been subject to tax control due to lack of concrete evidence, prescription, spontaneous regularization by the taxpayer or for other reasons. According to the site of the consortium of journalists at the base of the SwissLeaks, Belgium is the tenth country in terms of capital present in the Swiss subsidiary of HSBC with an amount of $6.3 billion for 3,002 customers. Finally, the press relayed information that the ISI had completed 1,000 cases. Thus, the estimated revenue for the Federal State would be € 540 million. Minister, how many files are managed by the FPS Finances related to HSBC? What is the extent of the amounts hidden from the Belgian tax system that the SPF Finances has been able to identify? How many taxpayers are involved? How are the files divided between the ISI and the general tax administration? How many cases have been closed to date? What is the share of the $6.3 billion involved in the cases closed to date? Do you confirm the figure of 540 million additional revenues expected for the federal government budget? How is this figure broken down between the tax owing and the increase? How many files were reached by the prescription? How many files have been subject to spontaneous regularization? How many files have been closed for lack of concrete evidence? How many files will not be tracked for other reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u100	Minister, I do not want to prolong the debate. My questions are similar to those of Mr. Dispa. Therefore, in order not to delay you, I would like to ask you how many unprocessed files remained and why they had not been examined at the same time as the others. Did the ISI take care of it alone? How many officers are assigned to this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the data received by the ISI AG in 2010 were not in all cases usable for a further tax investigation. A total of 829 potential files were retained. For files that were ultimately the subject of a further tax investigation by the ISI AG, the following results were obtained as of April 27, 2015. In total, 724 enlistments have already been made for a total of taxes to be enlisted, including tax increases, of just over 518 million euros, from 2011 to 2015. All files processed by the ISI are stored in the STIR-Fraude application. The processing of the results in this application shall be carried out immediately on the basis of the recruitment decision and shall therefore provide a statement of the situation which also concerns the cases in progress. The figure I have just quoted does not, therefore, concern only closed cases. A total of 335 cases were forwarded to the General Tax Administration. The total amount of tax supplements, including tax increases, is just over EUR 15 million. I can also confirm that in response to a request from the ISI dated 16 February 2015 following the publication in the press of the "722 new names", the competent service of the French tax administration transmitted, on 19 May 2015, a new cd-rom containing HSBC banking data. The data recorded on cd-rom are currently being reviewed by a specialized team within the ISI and compared with the data obtained in 2010.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u102	Mr President, I will not delay the minister any longer. I didn't get a precise answer to all my questions, but I can't blame him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u103	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-30-54-commissie-ic202x.u104	Mr. Secretary, you're leaving for your conference call now. We wish you every success. Question No 4843 and Question No 4844 by Mr Van de Velde Mr Dedecker's 4925 were converted into written questions. The first question on our agenda next Wednesday is Question No Mr Dispa. The next meeting will begin with questions No 4986 by Mr Benoît Dispa and No 5334 by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet. We will see each other on Monday for the examination of the Tax Programme Act and perhaps on Wednesday for the oral questions. However, it is possible that the Fiscal Programme Act will be on the agenda of the plenary on Wednesday if we can vote on it on Monday. However, this depends on the Conference of Presidents.
