ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, The Belgian political world loses in Leo Tindemans, a man of exceptional size. Leo Tindemans has been active and alert in many areas and has left an indelible mark on the country's internal and external policies. Leo Tindemans was born in Zwijndrecht in 1922. At three different universities he obtained no less than three degree degrees: in the trade and consular sciences in Antwerp, in the economic sciences in Ghent and in the social sciences in Leuven. His professors and fellow students agreed: Tindemans was wise, articulate and above all highly learning and reading. Leo Tindemans actually began his professional life in 1948, as editor of the daily Gazet van Antwerpen, where he stayed for a year and a half. He then passed examinations and became secretary of administration in the Department of Agriculture. He also worked for some time at the Economic Council of the province of Antwerp. This first work experience made him aware of the urgent need for better information for the various actors in the agricultural sector and in the business world. Leo Tindemans also felt keenly that many circles then gave too little attention to communication. He would have long conversations with Frans Van Cauwelaert, among other things. This dialogue brought him into contact with the study department of the CVP-PSC at the time, where he started working in 1950. He did several study and information assignments there. Pretty soon he worked closely with top figures like Robert Houben, Theo Lefevre and Paul Van den Boeynants. His ability to think, his dynamism and his commitment were greatly appreciated, to the extent that he was asked in 1958 to become the national secretary of the Christian Democrats. The political virus had definitely struck at that time. Tindemans would now be directly involved in the policy. In the spring of 1961 the influential thinker and statesman Frans Van Cauwelaert died. Leo Tindemans succeeds him as MP, and he stays in our assembly until 1989. In his own arrondissement of Antwerp he became known and also highly appreciated. With each election, his popularity rose. During the formation of the Eyskens-Merlot Government in 1968, Tindemans was entrusted with the Community Relations portfolio, then a fairly difficult task for a starting minister. The organisation of the state had to be made more transparent, the antagonisms between Walloons and Flamands had to be managed, and the Brussels skein had to be dismantled as quickly as possible. The mastery of these files resulted in many insomnia. But Leo Tindemans didn't spare his time. His office turned into a kind of study centre, a laboratory that analyzed these multiple contradictions and built solutions, adjustments, revisions. In 1972, Leo Tindemans inherited from Gaston Eyskens' last ephemeral government the portfolio of Agriculture and the Middle Classes; his mission was to provide farmers with a decent income. At the same time, he had to implement the changing European structural policy. It also had to create and strengthen instruments that could benefit labour-intensive SMEs. In 1973, Leo Tindemans became Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Budget in the Tripartite Government of Edmond Leburton. Since the accession of that government, Tindemans has also been actively involved in the talks on regional development. Later in mid-October 1973 he received the portfolio of Institutional Reforms. As the Minister for the Budget, he had to ensure that the Treasury's borrowing deficit was reduced as much as possible, while budget preparation and implementation also took up much of its time. After the 1974 elections, Leo Tindemans became a reformer. That appointment was almost self-evident to all political observers. Tindemans had government experience, was appreciated throughout the country and had achieved an overwhelming personal success in Antwerp. Leo Tindemans would be the head of government twice. The first time with the liberals, later expanded with Rassemblement Wallon. But in the mid-1970s the economic crisis broke out. First and foremost, economic recovery and employment recovery should be pursued. As a result of the savings measures it had decided, the government became increasingly unpopular, with all the resulting consequences. The second Tindemans government – the Egmont government – was marked by community disputes. The events of Egmont-Stuyvenberg and the policy of financial recovery generated many reactions, both within and outside the firm. In October 1978, Leo Tindemans resigned his government under spectacular conditions. A few months later, in June 1979, Tindemans obtained a little less than one million votes in preference in the European elections, an absolute record in Belgium. In December 1979, Tindemans became chairman of the CVP. He was supposed to be president for about two years. In this difficult position, Tindemans once again demonstrated seriousness and great work force, and always managed to take the right tone in difficult situations. In the Martens V to VIII governments, Leo Tindemans received the important foreign affairs post. A sober approach quickly made him realize that European awareness needed to be revived. The "Atlantic Malaise" also tried to reduce Tindemans through consultation and countless contacts. But at the same time he was in favour of a pan-European dialogue, along the lines of Pierre Harmel. The Belgian Africa policy would also be better adjusted by Tindemans, while new, mostly commercial, relations were established with Asia. Tindemans would also ensure that Parliament was fully involved in the decision-making process and was able to respond more actively to the events. He has perhaps been the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has been the most on the schedule in this hemisphere. The prestigious career of Leo Tindemans ended in mid-1999 in the European Parliament, an assembly of which he was also an influential member. His speeches showed a great deal of knowledge of the files and a great deal of conviction. From 1994 to 1995, he led the "Tindemans Group", a think tank that produced an important report on the future of the European institutions with a view to the enlargement of the Union to include new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe. Leo Tindemans was appointed Minister of State by the King in 1992. He will go into history as someone who had the heart in the right place, was deeply inspired by high ideals and values, and who at crucial moments primarily sought reconciliation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u3	Mr President, a real icon of Belgian politics left us a few weeks ago. Leo Tindemans is born on 16 April 1922 in Zwijndrecht. He is one of the multi-qualified CVP generation that Belgium has given so many great statesmen. As a diploma in trade and consular sciences, a PhD in economics and a PhD in political and social sciences, he opts for a career of journalist and civil servant. He goes into politics after that. He became a member of the CVP from 1961 to 1989, Secretary-General of the European Union of Christian Democrats, Chairman of the EPP and Chairman of the CVP from 1979 to 1981. From 1968 onwards, he held several ministerial posts: Community Relations, Agriculture and Middle Classes, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Budget in charge of the Coordination of Institutional Reforms, and finally Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Leo Tindemans was a popular tribune, he was hugely popular. To date, an unprecedented record has been recorded, in particular the record of the number of preferred votes, which was almost one million. Only former Prime Minister Yves Leterme ever approached his score with about 800 000 votes in 2007. Tindemans was the first Belgian to add a personal touch to politics with his slogan: "With this man it becomes different." He served as Prime Minister for two legislatures. During that period the government was rearranged four times. His last government was interrupted prematurely by the Egmont Pact crisis for Community pacification. He was one of the founders of Belgian federalism. He confirmed the birth of the three Communities in Belgium and is known for his famous statement: "For me, the Constitution is not a piece of paper. I'm leaving this gallery. I'm going to the King and I'm offering to resign the government. It is Wilfried Martens who will continue the federalisation of Belgium afterwards. A true Atlanticist and supporter of the installation of American missiles in Belgium, Leo Tindemans was Minister of Foreign Affairs under the Martens V government. Today, we have forgotten what the Cold War was; a primary objective of Leo Tindemans was global relaxation. It will also play a very active role in the promotion of human rights around the world. He also sat in the European Parliament. He was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, and of the Subcommittee on Security and Disarmament, and he developed a reputation for building Europe. When he was appointed Prime Minister in 1974, the European Council instructed him to define an overall approach to the European Union. According to him, "the European Union is not an end in itself, but a step on the road to unification". His visionary report on Europe was presented and published in December 1975. It calls for a monetary union, which has since materialised through the introduction of the euro. His memoirs and his political will are two fascinating testimonies about Belgian politics in the second half of the last century. The author was a cultivated and well-read man. He is awarded the title of Professor of Emeritus of the KU Leuven and that of Doctor of Honoris Causa of the City University London, the Heriot-Watt University Edinburgh and the University of Georgetown. In 1992 he became Minister of State. From 1965 to 1976 he was mayor of Edegem. He died on 26 December at the age of 92.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u4	I greet the family of Leo Tindemans in our gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u5	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, died on 27 December last in Wilrijk, at the age of 94, Minister of State Charles Baron Poma, a member of the Chamber of Representatives from 1971 to 1981. Karel Poma was born on 14 March 1920 in Antwerp, as the son of a lieutenant in the Antwerp fire department who was also a liberal city council member in Wilrijk between 1946 and 1958, and between 1953 and 1958 mayor. After high school at the Royal Athena of Antwerp, the young Poma enrolled at the University of Ghent where he obtained a degree in chemistry. Three years later, he obtained a doctorate in chemistry from Ghent and was awarded a degree in bacteriology at the Université Libre de Bruxelles. While studying in Ghent during the war, Karel Poma, like his father, joined the Liberal movement and became a prominent member of the Liberaal Vlaams Studentenverbond. He was a freedom lover and took part in the resistance against the German occupier. He took the lead of the Ghent department of the National Student Group - a partial organization of the Independence Front - and collaborated in the preparation and distribution of illegal student magazines and organized arms shipments, which almost killed him. In 1945, Karel Poma joined the Intercommunal Antwerp Waterworks as a chemical bacteriologist, where he became head of the laboratory. In the 1960s and 1970s he noticed how the quality of watercourses in Belgium was constantly deteriorating. In 1965, Karel Poma became a provincial senator for the PVV. Six years later, in 1971, he switched to the Chamber, and gave up his job at the Antwerp Waterworks in order to fully focus on his political career. As a free-minded humanist, Poma submitted a bill to regulate the classes of non-confessional morals in state education, as well as a bill to remove the formula "So help me God" from the oath in judicial and administrative matters. The latter proposal was adopted unanimously by the Chamber in December 1973. Karel Poma was the first parliamentarian to bring the issue of ecology to the agenda. Its main legislative proposals include those on surface water sanitation, groundwater protection, the fight against air pollution by motor vehicles, and the treatment of industrial waste. Many of the bills he put forward were subsequently translated into laws or decrees. Between 1974 and 1977 Poma served in the Tindemans I government as the first State Secretary for the Environment. During that period he also published two books, Cut with our environment and Energy and democracy, which bear witness to his great interest in all aspects of ecology. From 1981 to 1985, Karel Poma was Vice-President of the Flemish Executive and Flemish Minister of Culture, responsible for, among other things, the fine arts, the cultural heritage, the cultural centres, media policy, sport, youth policy, vocational training and applied scientific research. Without exaggeration, it can be said that he has left his mark on all these domains. His achievements include the founding of the Philharmonie de Flandre, the reorganization of the Ballet de Flandre and the Festival de Flandre, and the creation of the Advisory Council of the Theatre. It has also provided a long-term stimulus to film production and artistic creation. It allowed the creation of the Museum of Contemporary Art of Antwerp, installed the provincial museum of Modern Art of Ostend in its definitive setting and supported several small museums. He made the preservation of works of art – including the Mystic Lamb of the Ghent Cathedral – and the restoration of classified buildings – such as the Antwerp theatre Bourla – priorities, as well as the creation of cultural centres. Karel Poma also managed to save the Zoo of Antwerp from a certain closure thanks to a thorough reorganisation of the policy and the voting of a decree to annual donation. In 1985 the then 65-year-old Charles Poma decided not to hold a national political mandate. Three years later, in 1988, he also said goodbye to local politics, which he sometimes forgets: between 1976 and 1982, Poma was a city council member in Wilrijk, and between 1982 and 1988, after the merger to Great Antwerp, a city council member in Antwerp. After his farewell to active politics, however, Karel Poma continued to play in the background with the Flemish liberals: for example, he was chairman of the National Statutory Commission of the VLD from 1993 to 2005. In 2009 he became Minister of State. Dear Colleagues, With Karel Poma disappears a political personality animated by a great conviction and endowed with a vision of the future, a man who carried high tolerance and pluralism, a refined intellectual with great power of relativization who shared with all his joy of life, his unwavering optimism and his overflowing humour. On behalf of the House, I presented my sincere condolences to his wife and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u6	Mr President, Belgium has lost a great liberal humanist and animated ecologist. All his life he fought extremism and religious fundamentalism. Karel Poma was born on 14 March 1920 in Antwerp. As a former member of the PVV, today the Open Vld, Karel Poma was Flemish liberal minister, honorator and member of the Chamber of Representatives. His liberal colleagues often called him a man who was way ahead of his time. From 1974 to 1977 he is Secretary of State for the Environment, a position that was for the first time fully assigned to a member of the government. That was the opportunity for him to publish two works on this oh so important problem today. For Karel Poma, the environment was, I quote, a new human right, as was the right to holiday, the right to work, the right to pension, which had to be recognised as such by the Constitution. He felt that environmental pollution was not inherent in our economic and social system, but was caused by individual negligence. Technical progress and legislation punishing abuse should protect people from any form of pollution of their environment. From 1981 to 1985, he was Vice-President of the Flemish Executive and Minister of Culture of the Flemish Community, in particular in charge of the media, sport and youth. It was he who ended the monopoly on public radio in Flanders and allowed the appearance of free radios. He is the originator of the Museum voor Hedendaagse Kunst in Antwerp. He has thoroughly reformed the Symphony Orchestra of Flanders. He left the political scene in 1985, remaining very active in the Flemish Liberal Party. He is the author of several publications. He was also mayor of the municipality of Wilrijk. ==Career=====Baron===In 2005 he was raised by King Albert II and was given the title of Baron. In 2009 he became Minister of State. On 27 December he died at the age of 94 in Wilrijk, a day after the death of his contemporary Leo Tindemans, in whose government he was still Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let us observe a moment's silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today there has been a crucial meeting of the Group of Ten. In the meantime, we have been able to hear the results from the media. It is good to note that the federal government does not remain the heartless, hard government that wants to avoid any social dialogue. On the contrary, we note that discussions have taken place in a constructive atmosphere and that social dialogue on two very important issues can now begin. The first important issue to be discussed is the labour cost handicap, which is so important for the competitiveness of our companies. The second, also very important, issue, as reported yesterday by the Minister for Social Affairs, is that of the welfare envelope. This year 314 million will be provided for the lowest benefits and 300 million will be added in the following years. That is an additional 1.2 billion, if the method of calculating the opposition is applied, for those who are struggling and living against the poverty line. In addition, the federal government will continue to pursue fiscal reform and the shift from labour to other income. Those points have always been in the coalition agreement and have always been supported by our group. Prime Minister, first of all, what timing have you agreed with the social partners? Secondly, you will do something for those with the lowest benefits, as has already been recognized by Minister De Block, but what will happen for those with the lowest wages? They too do not have it easy. We also want to strengthen the purchasing power of this category. What measures do you intend to take to strengthen this category financially and improve their prosperity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, last month we had to deal with strikes, demonstrations and new actions. There was little hope for social peace. Some Members of this House had already given up all hope for social peace and still had little faith in social dialogue. Today we see that the government and the social partners have sat together at the table and made agreements. What proved impossible a month ago is possible today. We have always advocated this dialogue, social dialogue, because we are convinced that structural socio-economic reforms cannot be carried out without the social partners, without social dialogue. Minister Peeters was given a mandate by the government. With your full support, Prime Minister, he has made a great deal of efforts and had many informal contacts to pave the way for today. Today, a number of agreements have indeed been made on the use of the welfare envelope, 327 million for this year and 630 million for next year, as well as on the social corrections to the bridge pension and runways. There would also have been talk of a wage margin, not a wage freeze, and of a reduction in charges, which should mainly involve a shift of charges to other revenues, based on the principles of the coalition agreement. I would like to mention these two concrete principles in the coalition agreement, namely the principle of justice and balance. What our group and its citizens expect is justice and a balance of burden shifting. Prime Minister, what are the specific arrangements made this afternoon? What's the timing? What has been agreed in concrete terms on the tax shift and the shift in charges for the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that we have at last had social dialogue this morning. For this purpose, 120 000 people were on the streets and there were a number of strikes, but this morning the meeting finally took place. Prime Minister, we are pleased that social dialogue has finally been given a chance. We have also understood that a number of issues have been agreed on in relation to wage formation. This will be negotiated further. However, there is something that worries me very much. Yesterday, you said that the government is committed to shifting the burden on labour to other sources of income. That worries me for two reasons. First of all, this is not new. We have already heard this in the declaration of government four months ago, and we have heard it after the strikes and the demonstrations. So there's nothing new under the sun. For my second point, I would like to make it clear once again what is important to us. Why did these 120 000 people get out on the street? Because they think it is very unfair that the policy pursued by this government places all the burdens on families, on the people who work and on those who have to live on benefits, such as pensioners. That's why those people got out on the street. With these very vague promises nothing will be resolved. Why do we think this is so important, Prime Minister? First of all, because it's just right. It is unfair that only the workers and families should pay the burden simply because you want to safeguard the great assets, only for that reason. That's totally unfair. Secondly, because it is not efficient. It has already been explained by so many studies that it is much more efficient to shift the burden on labour to taxes on capital gains and that this creates most jobs. Hence my questions. Mr Prime Minister, can you tell us clearly what the arrangements were for the follow-up this afternoon? In particular, can you take away my concern? Can you tell us what will be on the table to make the tax shift fair, fair and efficient? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this morning a small ministerial committee met with the Group of 10 (G10), which we welcome. We also welcome the fact that, at the end of last year, negotiations were resumed between employers and trade unions, that they are continuing at the beginning of this year and that they have even intensified: two meetings have already been held this week, Monday and Tuesday. The government, in its government agreement, had set out its ambition to create a revival of our country, at least to foster competitiveness and enable businesses to re-launch employment. The government had also expressed its willingness to achieve the objectives of the National Reform Plan, which is in line with the European Union's strategic plan 2000-2020, in order to achieve a 73.2% employment rate in our country. In 2013, this rate was only 67.2%. This employment plan covers all potential workers between the ages of 20 and 64. In order to achieve this ambitious programme, it is necessary to contain our cost of work in relation to abroad, to neighbouring countries in order to eliminate this wage disadvantage. It also needs to be able to implement the labour reform plan, already implemented, so as to ensure our social security system as well as possible; this is crucial. Mr Prime Minister, first of all, what agreements have been reached in this dialogue between the government and the social partners? Then, is there an already defined method and timing for future meetings? Finally, what topics will be given priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the three trade unions together proposed a number of avenues for fiscal reform. This is another signal from society that many people are more honest and greener in the way of taxes and want a shift of burdens, with lower labour costs and a shift towards the greatest potential and environmental pollution. Today, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes that, there was an important meeting between the government and the Group of Ten. Better late than never. After all, this country needs more cooperation and more dialogue, so it is good that we are sitting around the table. However, this is only the beginning of the process and it is unclear whether results will follow. This government still has a very important role to play in achieving results. In this context, I am thinking specifically of two things. First of all, the index jump. Today it was announced that the social partners will be given room for wage negotiations in 2015 and 2016. For Mr Leemans, I quote Belga, this means that there is room to talk about the index jump. Mr Peeters just said on the VRT journal of 13 am 00 that the index jump is acquis, that he has been decided. So the first important question is whether or not we can talk about the index jump, whether it falls in 2015 or 2016? Second, the tax shift. There is a wide demand for fair taxes, for a fair contribution from the greatest assets, but there are still people in your government, Prime Minister, who are not getting the idea that this announced tax shift will also require a greater contribution to the greatest capabilities. You should not decide today on the tax shift, but if you really want to restore confidence, I expect you to give some direction and clarify that. It is therefore a good thing to sit around the table, but these two crucial questions deserve an answer today, so that social peace can really be set on track. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 120,000 people went down the street on 6 November 2014 to make known to the government their position and their willingness to have more social justice as regards certain measures that had been put on the table: index jump, career extension, etc. I'm not going to re-invent the horrific catalogue. The demonstrators shouted their feelings of injustice in the face of measures that would strike those who have the least means. At the time, you said you wanted social dialogue to resume. This was briefly the case before the Christmas holidays. This morning, a small ministerial committee was meeting with the Group of 10, which provided an opportunity to discuss some of the issues. One can be pleased to see the resumption of social dialogue – a government mediator has been appointed for this purpose – because it is known that it is included in the DNA of social relations. It leads to social peace provided that the rules of operation and the decisions taken by the social partners are respected. This is a bipartite negotiation. The government generally does not participate, even if it may intervene. The fundamental question, therefore, is whether the decisions to be taken will be respected. As you know, the new report of the Central Economic Council reveals that the wage gap fell to 2.9% at the end of 2014. In your government statement, you mentioned an index jump in 2015 to address this wage gap. Here we go. In addition, in their negotiations, the social partners may decide to make increases, may take decisions on wage training. Mr Prime Minister, will you respect the decision of the social partners if they indicate their willingness not to make an index jump? Indeed, I draw attention to the fact that some bosses feel that an index jump is not necessary. Will the government respect this decision and abandon its unjust ideological vision? Secondly, I would like to concentrate, for a moment, on the question of information on a reorientation, a shift in tax and parafiscal charges on work towards other income. I am thinking here of the tax shift tax. You know the demands of trade unions. Employers do not necessarily seem to be opposed, including property tax. If the social partners decide on the need for the latter, will you accept their decision? In short, will the government comply with the agreements that have been reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, social dialogue has resumed and, as environmentalists, we welcome it. Social dialogue is an essential economic and social tool in our country, and since your government's inception, you have done a lot of damage. If the workers' representatives have returned to the table, it is out of responsibility but also in the hope that there will be an inflection, a change of course on the part of your government. I have heard colleagues talk about the compensation measures that are being announced. These are far less than the cost to the most fragile in society of all the measures you have already decided on in terms of time credit, the pursuit of the hunt for the unemployed, pensions, index jumps, all these measures that will actually hit tens of thousands of our citizens. Are you going, Prime Minister, yes or no, back on these measures? There is indeed a positive development in relation to Mr Di Rupo's government, i.e. there is no longer any announced wage freeze. You leave room for negotiation. I would like to stress this positively. But we know that, in our country, there is no interprofessional agreement possible if the government does not act to create an economic climate that works and to ensure solidarity. This is point 2 of the note which was discussed earlier with the social partners. Your Government is particularly vague and vague in this regard. Will there be, yes or no, a tax shift? What is the current agreement in your government? What kind will it be of? Will it be in millions or billions of euros, because that is the condition for a real resumption of social dialogue in our country, for real social stability for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various speeches. As we have already mentioned in this forum, for the government, social consultation is taken seriously. There is a strong tradition in our country of involving social dialogue in economic and social strategies. We wanted to confirm that. That's a first point. A second important point is that the partners have managed to reach an agreement with government support for Christmas holidays. That was a first signal in the right direction for social dialogue. This morning a new meeting took place between the government and the Group of Ten. There the government has proposed a strategy to provide a real opportunity for positive and constructive dialogue and social dialogue. I am particularly pleased, on behalf of the government, that this meeting has taken place in a very good, positive and constructive atmosphere. I think this is a good signal and offers hope for the next few months and perhaps even years. I come to the five concrete points put forward to the social partners on the basis of the government's memorandum. Firstly, there are a number of points of discussion for autonomous social dialogue within the Group of Ten. In this context, we have proposed four concrete points to enable the social partners, in an autonomous way, to envisage a calm and effective negotiation. Firstly, it is wage developments on the basis of the report of the Central Economic Council, taking into account the objective of resorption of the wage handicap provided for in the government agreement. The social partners have a space until the end of this month to try to agree on this first subject, which is the capacity within the Group of Ten to conclude agreements between the social partners. Secondly, these are framework agreements, on the basis of decisions taken in the framework of the royal decrees in connection with the first agreements concluded before the end of the year. Thirdly, in the same spirit, existing bisanual conventions can be extended if some wish. A fourth specific point on the order of the day for autonomous social dialogue is the welfare envelope. I confirm what I had already stated on my first day in office, even before I had gained the confidence of the Chamber. An increase in the social envelope compared to the previous legislative period was chosen and the scope was given to give advice on the distribution of that social envelope. There are two major reservations about this. The government really wants to provide support in the fight against poverty. The use of the social envelope must indeed contribute to the approximation of the European thresholds in terms of poverty. This is one of the objectives envisaged and we suggest that we also take into account the issue of combating job traps and the concern for inactivity. So this is the first very concrete point. A second point concerns taxation, competitiveness, employment and purchasing power. In the first place, of course, that is the responsibility of the government and the Council of Ministers and a parliamentary majority. The partners say they want to strengthen the measures to create more jobs. To this end, I can make the following specific points. The government has confirmed its intention to make a shift in taxation and para-taxation on labour, taking into account other sources of income. I'm being asked about timing. I make it clear that this must have its first impact in the 2015–16 fiscal year. The government will effectively implement the government agreement on the basis of the various principles contained therein and in the overall tax reform. Furthermore, we wish to inform the social partners of this reform and we intend to ensure that the agreed allocation for the financing of social security is also assessed with a view to transparency and accountability. I would like to mention a third important aspect of the content of our proposal, namely the issue of pensions. We are committed to implementing the National Pension Committee, making proposals for content points and discussing them. Fourthly, stability and social peace. In order to engage in dialogue, it is important that we can build on a spirit of peace and social tranquillity. Fifthly, a new meeting is scheduled at the end of January between the government and the social partners. I conclude, Mr. Chairman, by thanking you for your inquiries, by telling you the government's determination to make positive, constructive progress on the road to social dialogue. This morning, significant progress has been made. I want to thank all the colleagues who have worked to make this progress possible. Together with the government, we will continue in the coming weeks and months to ensure that we can continue and move forward on the path of social dialogue. An important step is being taken. There'll be more. We will also try to cross them in a positive, constructive and intelligent way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I hear the opposition parties playing the same record as in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to change your picture. In 2015, a kind of unconvenient truth emerged about this government, which has been portrayed as a harsh antisocial government. What do we see today? You said that we cut people's purchasing power. But what has this government done? On 1 January, thanks to the flat-rate deduction, everyone received more net, and next year it will be even more. The welfare envelope, Mrs Temmerman, spent 60% in the government with the socialists and will now spend 100 %. That is 40% more for the poor, 40% more for those who are having a hard time. We will finally bring these benefits above the poverty line. You've never been able to do that in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy of the coalition agreement remains the same. We remain in complete agreement with this, including with regard to the tax-shift debate. That philosophy is: we reward who works, we reward who invests and who does, and we take care of who is struggling. One can't do without the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. The government is indeed taking an important step forward today by allowing social dialogue to begin again. That is a very important point for the future. The social partners have received important homework to give the lowest incomes a purchasing power increase in the coming months. But the government has also received homework. We look forward with interest to the homework of the Minister of Finance on the tax shift, which should, of course, lead to more jobs and which should include three pillars: more competitiveness, more purchasing power, but also, above all, more justice and balance, issues contained in the coalition agreement. That will also be the touchstones for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. We are pleased that the social dialogue has been given a new opportunity. I said this in my speech. However, you have certainly not been able to overcome my concern. First of all, let's talk about the welfare envelope. Mr Lachaert, it is not about 100 but about 80% because you have removed the child benefit. Be honest! If you compare this with the index jump and all the other measures taken by this government, such as excise duties and VAT, then there is a loss of EUR 1.2 billion. So you don't completely compensate for the welfare envelope! Prime Minister, taxation. You should listen to this too, Mr Lachaert. You say you take care of the workers. No, the burdens imposed by this government all go to the workers because they do not want to touch the great capacities. We will continue to challenge this, Mr Lachaert. You also say that professional costs will improve everyone's health. I am sorry to say this, but pensioners and those who do not receive wages have no professional costs. So it doesn't make them any better. Mr Prime Minister, I would once again like to ask you to remove the concern and to opt for a fair tax which will also contribute to the great capacities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. I also congratulate you on having been able to resume this consultation with the social partners. After last year's events, we are certainly moving towards a calming and we will be able to get back on our feet. In my capacity as parliamentarians and business leaders, I assure you that we are very pleased with the progress of the events and with the cooperation and serenity that we have found. Indeed, we need it again to create growth, jobs and shared wealth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u20	Prime Minister, first of all, it is good that the consultation is continuing again. This highlights the sense of responsibility of the social partners. They deserve to be praised instead of the scorn you have often seen in Parliament over the last few weeks and months. Secondly, despite my request, you did not answer an important question about the index jump. Mr Leemans says he understands today that the free wage negotiations, and thus the scope for 2015 and 2016, mean that the index jump can be discussed. Mr Peeters says that until the index jump has been decided. You did not answer that question. Mr President, we are here to answer questions, so I would ask the Prime Minister to give us a clear answer. This question has just been made clear: can we talk about the index jump, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u21	Mr Calvo, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u22	Excuse me, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u23	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u24	A question is being asked in Parliament and there must be an answer to that. Prime Minister, if you have nothing to hide, answer that question. Can we talk about the index jump for 2015 and 2016, yes or no? Does the version of Mr Leemans or Mr Peeters apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u25	Mr Calvo, the Prime Minister is asking for the floor. However, that does not create a reply for everyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u26	Mr President, very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that not everyone today is really satisfied with the social dialogue. That is my feeling today after hearing a number of statements. Some would have preferred a crisis situation, with many problems between the government and the social partners! (Applause from the left) [[(...):]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u27	Mr President, allow me to respond. We agreed this morning, starting with a note that I have presented to you in full transparency, which can be distributed to all parliamentarians present in this House. At the beginning of this note, it was possible to say, after a serious, calm, calm and constructive meeting, that we will commit ourselves to continuing the work of consultation within the Group of Ten, including on wage developments, within the framework of the government agreement, with regard to the resorption of the wage handicap. In addition, the government is making commitments to implement measures for competitiveness, employment and purchasing power. Obviously, this is not the case! But between the social partners and the government, serenity is back and I welcome it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u28	Prime Minister, many words but no answers. Can we talk about the index jump: yes or no? Consultation is important, but the rules of the game must be clear. Mr Leemans has understood A, Mr Peeters says B. This is not the way to deal with consultation. If we consider this consultation to be important, then we are clear about it. You don't want to answer that. Then about the tax shift. Mr Gilkinet has already said that the 10% of the largest assets have EUR 877 billion. There is room for reasonable taxation, for a drastic shift. Not a mini-tax shift, not a million-dollar tax shift, but a billion-dollar tax shift. That is the lever for everything: social peace, political stability and economic revival, matters for which Ecolo-Green will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u29	Mr President, my predecessor was unable to obtain an answer. I would like, since the discussions this morning took place in calm and serenity, that we continue this way: there is no need to get angry. You just have to answer yes or no to a question. It's simple. The resorption of the wage handicap, as I said earlier, can be achieved without an index jump. If the social partners reach agreement on this point, will the government comply with this decision or not? The answer is yes or no, and it is not necessary to get angry to answer. Mr President, I have a little solution for the Prime Minister. If he doesn't want to answer in front of everyone, like that, and I can understand it - one can have his pride - he can just make a little gesture from my head, that will suffice. Or eyelids, if he can't talk. Let's get serious again. I wish I had an answer. About the wellness envelope, it's exactly the same thing. Tomorrow, if the social partners decide to increase the social minimums (unemployment benefits, integration income), will the government accept this, yes or no? It's social consultation. A little nod could help... no? With regard to the tax shift, Mr Vercamer spoke of the guarantee of purchasing power. I hope that this tax shift will not be, as we are currently announcing in the newspapers, to increase VAT, excise duty, the diesel ratchet, but rather to increase the tax on wealth, on capital gains, as a certain party in your government demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u30	Prime Minister, yes, the social partners have returned to the table. But if you think it's won, you're a big mistake! You must be much clearer. You've been a long time, you've read us that note. You did not want to tell us what will or will not be the index jump and other anti-social measures that neither the social partners nor we ecologists have forgotten. You are particularly vague, and I fear that this is a sign of a deep disagreement within your government about what really will happen to this tax shift. You talk about slipping, you don't mention the sources of those slips, or the amounts you're considering. I fear that the majority will rejoice too quickly. We deeply hope that this social dialogue will work. But the condition for it to work is for this government to change course. Mr President, there is nothing worse than a disappointed hope or an unfulfilled commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Homeland Security, Islam consultants in prisons, the deployment of the army, the taking away of Belgian nationality, the running of counter propaganda, the establishment of a national security council, the scanning of Internet communications, the tightening of the Schengen agreement, the preventive withdrawal of identity papers, the setting up of re-education camps and so on, are as many proposals as there are ministers and even more proposals than there are ministers. Unfortunately, nothing I've just listed has been done yet. Nothing at all. Meanwhile, it is almost a year after the attack on the Jewish Museum of Belgium and three to four years after the first Syrian fighters left. Lots of bleat but little wool. However, time is running out. The government waits until after the trial of Sharia4Belgium. No, she is not waiting; she will now take action, but is not ready. We need to be patient. First there is a conference and a meeting to be held, and I don't know what else. Prime Minister, this is a policy of announcement, which must only be used to appease the people. Every day a minister appears in the gazet with great explanations and muscle roll and balloons are elated. Nothing happens on the ground, however, until the first attack, excuse me, I mean yet another attack, albeit of a larger size than we have in the past. In fact, my question to you is quite simple: when will your government take a coordinated approach to the problem outlined? After all, it's not five to twelve. I'm afraid it's 12:05.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days I have had an intensive exchange of views with the Minister for the Interior and with the Minister for Justice on a number of measures that have been put forward in the fight against radicalism. According to press releases, the Council of Ministers would examine a number of proposals for action tomorrow. I hope he makes decisions, too. After all, I am aware that all democratic forces, the local, regional and federal levels, must join forces. It is a complex matter and we have no time to waste. Tomorrow I would like to wake up or go to sleep with the message that the government will also urgently address the problems of the returners. We have seen in France what can lead to sloppy dealing with returners. Prime Minister, I can only ask that decisions be taken tomorrow to achieve unity of command and that you ensure that the returnees in all the municipalities of our country are effectively followed. We have seen that 50 of the 101 returned Syrian fighters are not being followed at the moment, not by the police, nor by the local authorities. That's one in two, Prime Minister. I hope you will also decide that this will not cost a penny to allow the intelligence and police services to cooperate more, so that the judicial information will also reach those responsible for monitoring it, the police. Finally, in July 2013, a number of mayors tried to take responsibility beyond party boundaries. Then we asked for extra support for the local police work. Today it is absolutely necessary for decisions to be taken so that we can take effective responsibility on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, last week I said that our group will be at the side of the government when it comes to fighting radicalism and terrorism and defending the fundamental rights of citizens. However, we will not be able to move forward effectively without an upgrade of the budgetary resources for the police and the justice system. This is, in our view, an absolute urgency. Your Government has promised to make our country's security a priority. At the beginning of the week, you announced a whole series of measures and also claimed that there would be no budget cuts in the fight against terrorism. However, it must be noted that the gap between words and acts is clear, since the main anti-terrorism bodies see the resources allocated to them melt down: the State Security Agency is faced with a reduction in staff costs; the police have a planned budget of 177 million; the OCAM budget is reduced by 17 per cent; the staff costs of the Crisis Centre are reduced as well as the resources allocated to the Cybersecurity Centre and the resources allocated to the Department of Justice, which achieves a savings of 13 per cent. No more ambiguous procrastination can be tolerated. Prime Minister, I ask you today to bring your word into line with your actions. Can you make a formal commitment to raise the above-mentioned budgets, so as to allow an optimal fight against terrorism and radicalism? You have also called for constructive dialogue beyond the majority/opposition divides on these important issues. In this sense, I am calling on you myself, Prime Minister. My group has tabled three bills to prevent the departure of Belgian jihadists. These texts will be taken into account in a few moments. We therefore call for Parliament to be able to work on these texts next week. We urge you to move from speech to action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, today, a week after the bloody attacks in Paris, the emotion is still alive. The question, of course, is what measures should be taken to prevent such horrors carried out by Salafist terrorism from reoccurring. The government comes with a series of measures: putting the army on the street, greatly expanding phone calls, spying on the e-mails of a large part of the population, etc. Prime Minister, I think the government is wrong because, in order to fight terror, we need targeted actions and to avoid raking too wide by conducting total espionage of the population. Why? On the one hand, it's not effective. What needs to be done is to target terrorists and not spy on the entire population. We need to concentrate on the means. On the other hand, it poses democratic problems in terms of respect for fundamental rights. I'm not the only one to say that, Prime Minister. Have you read this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? If that is not the case, I urge you to do so. It is a judgment of 8 April 2014 which invalidates a European directive, that of 15 March 2006. I read to you the conclusion of this judgment: "The Directive of 15 March 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communication services and/or public communication networks is invalid." It is the Court of Justice that says: "Citizens feel they are under constant control. This approach is disproportionate to the objective of combating crime and terrorism." Mr Prime Minister, my question is simple: to what extent are the various provisions that the government is going to take respecting this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Amedy Coulibaly, responsible for the attack on the Hyper Hider supermarket, obtained weapons in Belgium: in Charleroi, he reportedly obtained, according to the press, a Tokarev pistol, 10 Kalachnikov, explosives and handguns; in Brussels, a Scorpion machine gun. These weapons were found at the crime scene. The fact is, therefore, that in Belgium, today, it is easy to obtain weapons of war that are used for unspeakable acts, which we discussed widely last week. There is therefore a breach in Belgium in the fight against arms trafficking, Prime Minister. This is your government's responsibility. My question is simple and I hope to receive an equally simple answer: what strategy do you intend to adopt by the national security plan to be drawn up for 2015 to 2018 in order to combat illegal arms trafficking?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u36	Mr Prime Minister, following the tragic events in Paris, there was a clear answer both in our country and in Paris on Sunday: a clear march for tolerance. On the other hand, Minister Jambon has signed a declaration of solidarity on behalf of our country. Two important points in this are the stricter supervision at European borders and a good system of information transmission. We are aware, however, that this information transfer system is a little inadequate. The government allocated additional resources last year and apparently some additional hardware has been made available, but I also read that it may take another two years for a good information system to be available. We all know that this is too slow. We need to move faster. The exchange between Belgian services, as well as the exchange with European colleagues, is important. There was also something to do about the internet and Facebook. Our agents, who are our ambassadors and must safeguard our security, are also on the table. Prime Minister, you have had talks with the trade unions with a view to a serene solution. I have a few specific questions for you in this regard. We must act both in the short and in the long term. How can we create a society where citizens live together with respect for everyone's identity? Do your services already know all the names of the perpetrators of attacks in other countries? Or is there still a need for a catch-up? Has Mr Jambon, in consultation with you, already made proposals in Paris to give substance to the declaration of solidarity? Is border policy being strengthened? Are there any additional measures? How will the Schengen Information System and our Belgian information system provide answers in the short term to the many questions relating to the transfer of information? Finally, did the trade unions make specific proposals at the consultations on Tuesday, which you would like to address?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we have all been traumatized, shocked and wounded by the violence and seriousness of the attacks that took place in Paris. I would like to inform you that this Government, in its agreement reached three months ago, decided to consider the fight against radicalism and terrorism a priority. That is why the government immediately took the first concrete decisions. Is there a perfect and excellent solution thanks to one measure? Certainly not, we are convinced that there are important points and many different points for which a good approach is crucial. I therefore confirm what Mr Bonte said earlier, and it is our intention to take the first concrete decisions in the Council of Ministers tomorrow. What are the issues on which we are mobilized? We have decided to take action with hard work that has been carried out by responsible ministers, experts and advisers. The aim is to ensure that we can be more involved in the arsenal that falls under our responsibility in Belgium: deradicalisation in prisons, efforts to work to ensure that social networks are not, as they are today, spaces where hatred, the call to radicalism and the call to terrorism are spread. The aim is also to ensure that special research techniques, such as wiretapping, can take into account this concern about terrorism. This is not the case enough today. Adapting our legislative arsenal in this area is also necessary. Tomorrow, the government will validate a first package of strong, clear and precise measures with the planned timing of implementation as well as the planned budgetary implication. This is a first point to be highlighted. Then there is European coordination. Last Sunday was a first chance when Minister Jambon and myself were present in Paris. He had a meeting with his European colleagues from the Interior, where the first concrete decisions were taken. Let me give you an example. A single list of European returners has been advocated in the Schengen area. We are dealing with this problem together with our fellow Members. There are many other examples. Information is also a crucial point in a positive strategy against radicalism, against terrorism. That is why, on the initiative of our Minister for the Interior, a letter has been sent and initiatives taken in the European Parliament concerning PNR, so more information will be provided about who moves within the Schengen area. That is also an important point. Finally, still at European level, here are some information. At the beginning of February, we will have an informal European Council at this stage, the main theme of which will be security, the fight against terrorism and living together. So these are the fundamental values that hold us to heart. I can tell you that I am calling for this European Council, which is for the moment informal, to become a formal Council with European decision-making. It is important for Belgium to be mobilised to ask that there should not simply be discussions and exchanges of views, but that, as is done in Belgium, decision-making could be speeded up. With regard to living together, we have also taken the initiative to bring together, with the whole government, representatives of cults and secularism to express a joint statement on this ground. The issue of arms and the issue of drug trafficking are elements that have implications, in particular with regard to the financing of radical and terrorist acts. We share the view that we must also address these issues as part of a comprehensive strategy. We are very determined to take the best possible action. I would like to repeat once again that a zero risk is non-existent. However, one can work hard to raise the level of safety. That's the government's intention. I hope that it will be possible to have a positive debate on this in Parliament. I hope that together we may be able to adopt a number of decisions. Thank you for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, tomorrow, demain, tomorrow, of course, we all shave for free and then it's all gonna happen. Once again, a conference will be held to announce everything, but there is no real policy on the ground. The weapons used in Paris were actually from Belgian territory. We send the highest percentage of Syrian fighters to the Middle East and so on. Sometimes I get the impression that the only people who are well organized in this country are not the government and the police, but the Muslim extremists and the Islam terrorists. I hope that someday the authority will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and for his commitment. I do not believe that anyone has any interest in seeking dualisation and conflict like the previous speaker, but I would once again urge that we take the fear situation in our country seriously. I see fear everywhere. I see fear in newspaper stores in Jette and Etterbeek. I see fear among policemen asking to take their weapon home. I see fear among the citizens. I see the most fear in the Muslim community itself. Fear of children who will leave. Fear of reprisals. I believe that we, as democrats, have a duty to join forces at all levels. I really want to insist, Prime Minister, that we address the problem of radicalised people who have returned very quickly. We can indeed agree on information systems with Europe, but I am very sorry to note that our information systems need to be improved. I promised the Minister of Justice information in this area. I'll deliver it to him today, as well as to my attorney. The exchange between judicial investigations and police investigations should be improved. A second element is the unit of command. It must be clear that automatic deletion is a duty for mayors. It must be clear in what way returners are best followed, because the mayors do not know. A third element is, unfortunately, the cost of money. I know how scarce the money is, Prime Minister. In my city, however, eight people have returned. Watching someone full-time requires 24 full-time equivalents, I'm told. There are eight returned persons and 174 police officers. You can count, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u40	Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. I very much regret that it does not include an ounce of commitment on the budgetary resources that are made available to carry out your policies. I have appealed to you about proposals that can be considered immediately on topics covered in the government agreement. I'm sorry you can't answer that call either. Suffice it to say that greater budgetary resources could be allocated to the police, justice, security, OCAM. I didn't hear it, even though I listened to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u41	Mr President, I note that it is time for questions but not time for answers. I asked the Prime Minister a specific question about the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; it seems to me that he did not answer it. I conclude that the government is sitting on this kind of judgment and on European decisions. On the other hand, with regard to the possibility of putting soldiers on the streets, you have found that the police and army unions oppose this measure. Finally, I must mention the drifts that took place after the September 11 attacks, in particular the Snowden case, which pointed out that the fact of raking very wide meant that those we wanted to catch passed through the meshes of the net. The bulk of NSA's metadata collection in the United States is clearly unrelated to terrorism and national security. The argument that this widespread surveillance would have led to the dismantling of several conspiracies was totally false.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have remained rather vague about the concrete measures to be taken to combat arms trafficking in Belgium. You have spoken of an arsenal of measures, but my group, Ecolo-Groen, encourages you instead to fight against the arsenals of war weapons available today in Belgium. Rather than thinking of imagining an arsenal of measures, it would be good to live, operate and enforce laws that visibly do not apply in Belgium since a terrorist has managed to obtain weapons of war in our country. This is the responsibility of the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u43	Prime Minister, I remember that you want to act quickly. You want streamlined coordination across all party boundaries to take action at all political levels in close consultation with our neighbouring countries. I can only welcome that, but I hope that you will really do it, so that it does not take two years for the information to flow into all our services and beyond our borders. Good luck. I believe in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u44	Mr President, Minister, last Tuesday a group of young people entered a federal police barracks in Brussels. This is not just any barracks; it is the Witte de Haelen barracks in Etterbeek, where the special intervention unit of the Federal Police is located. This unit is specially formed to intervene in matters of great banditry and terrorism. In the premises of this unit, the extensive and specific weaponry of its missions and documents relating to specific intervention techniques and critical locations are stored. Minister, given the threats to the police in particular and to the public in general, have you taken specific steps to increase the safety of the premises in response to this matter? In addition, have you been able to determine the identity and purpose of these young people? It goes without saying that knowing that it is possible to enter a highly secure place so easily has caused a certain stir among the citizens. In spite of the budgetary constraints, Minister, will you be able to provide the means in the future to properly strengthen the guard corps or for the surveillance rounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear that the information disseminated by Sudpresse is not correct and does not correspond to reality. In its edition of Wednesday, January 14, 2015, Sudpresse states that six young people – I quote – "were on a walk in the barracks of the special units". Last Tuesday, one day before, six young people were present on the side of a side entrance to the Witte de Haelen complex. At no time did they get into it. From the outside, they had only partial views of parking spaces. Given the general threat situation assessed by the OCAM set, for the time being, at Level 2, the Commissioner General has given the necessary instructions so that all line managers, in particular complex coordinators, quickly take appropriate security measures. The head of the complexes in Etterbeek-Ixelles is currently assessing whether specific measures for each set of buildings are required. Additional measures to adapt the infrastructure and procedures have already been taken and will continue to be taken in line with the evolution of risk and event analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u46	Minister, thank you for that answer. However, the information that circulates in the press, in the media in general and in social networks in particular, is not made to reassure the population. You tranquillize me when you say that this group of young people could not enter the barracks infrastructure. I'll take note of that. In my view, the most important thing is to be able to reassure the citizen. Nevertheless, the threat exists. It should therefore be taken into account and appropriate measures taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the images of the terror in Paris still on our minds, we are once again faced with extreme religious violence, this time in Nigeria, where, according to Amnesty International, the Islamic terror group Boko Haram wiped two villages in the north and killed thousands. The scale of that horrible murder of innocent civilians defies all imagination. A religion that sends young girls with bomb belts onto the market and allows young mothers to be murdered during childbirth is an abomination of a religion. It is an abomination of religion, for whom a child is no longer holy, and for whom a mother and her unborn child are no longer holy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must show solidarity with the victims of extremist violence, not only in Paris but also in Nigeria. There are no double standards and two weights in relation to terrorism; close to home or on another continent, we have a moral duty to condemn terror. However, indignation alone is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. There's got to be action, too. That is why I have a few questions for you, Minister. Firstly, that you condemn the facts there seems obvious to me, but would you also draw the Nigerian Government's attention to its responsibility in the fight against terror there? She has her responsibility, too. In the electoral mode in which the country is now in, there is a tendency to minimize the number of victims. Secondly, last May, after the attacks and the kidnapping of schoolgirls, you sent scouts to Nigeria to check for psychological and medical development. Will you do that now? Finally, what initiatives do you intend to take, within the framework of the European Union and the UN, in order to provide relief there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u48	Mr Minister, the horror of last week's attacks in France must not distract us from the international context and the roots of these barbaric acts, the roots of evil, an evil that knows no borders and gnaws our 'living together' with respect for our differences, which inevitably kills our values. The ignominy of these acts of terrorists, of these fools of God, of these religious fascists, reaches in Nigeria its climax. The abuses of the terrorist, sectarian, tribal group – how should it be described? – Boko Haram, which literally means "eradiating education" continues to intensify in the horror of acts and in the number of victims. The stated objective: to apply the sharia and, above all, to eradicate all forms of education. I'll go back to education once again. Progress and human rights are being flouted in this part of the world, just a few hours away from Europe. To achieve this, nothing stops them. Thus, they barter the young girls with explosives to blow them up in the markets. They attack children, schools, women who give birth. They want to sow terror and hit the spirits very hard. In the face of such organizations, bombs and strokes, however surgical they may be, will certainly not suffice, for these movements - and their short history, but already too heavy has proved it - are constantly reborn from their ashes. Their leader was executed. Several thousand of them have lost their lives. Still, they're coming back. It is therefore high time for the entire international community to use all the levers, especially in terms of education, just development and the fight against corrupt regimes, to eradicate these fools of God. Belgium has a role to play in this global issue. Therefore, Minister, what actions can Belgium take to combat terrorist organisations such as Boko Haram and its bloody abuses? What actions can Belgium, the European Union and the international community take to help this region of the world, both in terms of development and diplomacy and at the military level? What relay do you have on site? What is the government's vision in the international fight against terrorism and how do you intend to develop this indispensable approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u49	Vice-Prime Minister, Belgium is certainly a small country, but it has often been very important in terms of foreign policy than its size. It is enough to see the ministers Paul-Henri Spaak, Pierre Harmel or Leo Tindemans to convince each other. I know that Africa has always been a priority for you, for the government and for the Belgians. It's in this context that I'm asking you. Usually, and I regret it, our fellow citizens are not extremely motivated by what is happening in Africa. For the moment, however, we are being told all the time about this horrible situation, which has been so well described by my colleague Philippe Blanchart. This Islamist group, Boko Haram, which has just taken over the base of Baga and has razed many villages, has already made itself known in sad memory last year by the abductions of high school girls, rapes, forced marriages, the murders of teachers and the girl turned into a human bomb. This movement has established links with other movements in Mali (Ansar Eddine), West Africa (Movement for Unity and Jihad) but above all with AQMI, the Al Qaeda branch in the Maghreb, which has links with rebel groups in southern Libya, and which is therefore likely to recover part of Gaddafi's arsenal. This threat is all the greater given that Nigeria is the largest country in Africa and, above all, the one with the largest oil reserves. Like Daesh in Syria, there is therefore a risk of Boko Haram creating another Islamist pole, but also of diverting oil resources to his advantage in order to lead jihad. We can therefore ask ourselves about this situation. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I think it would be useful to put this item on the agenda of the Council of Foreign Ministers, since there is a risk of contagion with Cameroon, Niger and Chad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the extent of the terrible facts has already been explained in detail by my fellow Members. [[Together with my group, I have no choice but to join with the words of horror.]] It is only right to look here in the Chamber today at the acts of terror committed in Nigeria by Boko Haram last week. The year has only just begun. In the short life of 2015, we were excessively confronted with the consequences of totalitarian thinking, a confrontation with the denial of our fundamental and universal human rights, which are the right to life, the right to freedom, even in Nigeria, the right to education for children. Both at the level of our society and at world level, we must draw a maximum limit and do everything we can to provide both an answer and a perspective. Extremism is a global problem and the lack of perspective is the ideal breeding ground. Immediate action is pressing, hence my next questions. What can you do and what will you do? What will the Belgian Government do? With what message will you meet your EU colleagues next Monday? Will it be possible to find a united position within Europe? Let me come back to the lack of perspective, the main breeding ground for extremism and for terror. What can we do to remove this soil? This is the most fundamental question to be able to offer perspective to all young people in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u51	Mr President, I thank the various speakers for keeping their questions about this situation in Africa on the agenda of the Assembly. I was in Burundi and Rwanda at the time of the attacks in Paris. In Burundi, too, at the end of December 2014, about 100 people lost their lives in clashes and, while we were there, assassinations were committed against politicians. I come back to a few facts and to the actions undertaken. In relation to the facts, I can say the following. The kidnapping of more than two hundred and fifty schoolgirls in Chibok, mid-April 2014, is a sad highlight in a long series of terrorist acts by Boko Haram since 2009 and once again draws international attention to the growing security problem in the north-east of Nigeria. In recent weeks, there has been an attack by Boko Haram on the garrison city of Baga, on 3 January, near Lake Chad, where, depending on the source, several hundred to two thousand victims are to be regretted. In any case, the humanitarian toll is once again very high. Over the past weekend, dozens of victims were killed in suicide attacks committed by Boko Haram with the deployment of young girls, including in Maiduguri. In December, deadly attacks took place in Jos, Gombe and Bauchi. Due to the extreme insecurity, there are hardly any observers in that region. The region has an area similar to Belgium. It is therefore difficult, if not impossible, to get a correct picture of the true story. What action can we take? Many meetings have already taken place, and there will be others, at the United Nations Security Council and in Europe with my fellow Foreign Ministers, with whom I will also be meeting next week. On 22 May 2014, at the request of Nigeria, the UN Security Council decided to add Boko Haram to the Al Qaeda Sanctions List. Belgium has supported this decision. Its application takes place at European level with the support of Belgium. The internally displaced people and refugees to neighbouring Chad, Niger and Cameroon are already closely monitored by the relevant humanitarian organisations UNHCR, OCHA and Unicef, and Belgium provides financial support. Military actions are being undertaken on the ground. According to the Minister of Communication, Issa Chiroma Bakary, 143 terrorists from Boko Haram and a Cameroonian soldier were killed on Monday 12 January 2015 during an attack by the Nigerian Islamist group in the city of Kolofata. The transnational character of Boko Haram is not a novelty. The vast majority of terrorists belong to the Kanouris community, whose members live in Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon, around Lake Chad. But it is above all a Nigerian question. The European Union and its Member States, including Belgium, encourage Nigeria to maintain a comprehensive approach to security issues, especially in the North-East on the basis of good governance and development to combat radicalism. The fundamental values shared by Nigeria and the European Union are the key to overcoming terrorism. These values include an open society, respect for the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms. The Member States, including Belgium, continue to support Nigeria's fight against terrorism, including – we will renew this commitment – through projects funded from the EU Instrument for Stability budget line in selecting development projects under the European Development Fund (EDF), EUR 512 million. Special attention will again be paid to projects in northern Nigeria. Mr Luykx, the previous government, on the initiative of former Minister Onkelinx, did indeed send a mission to Nigeria to see if it was possible to take action, for example with B-FAST. However, you know that B-FAST is not the appropriate organisation for such a conflict. For security reasons, it is very difficult to do anything. However, we are ready to send another small mission to explore on the ground to see what new actions are possible from Belgium. We will continue with the global approach to terrorism in Nigeria and the region, not only in Belgium but at European level and at the level of the United Nations. As for the question of what we consider to be a comprehensive approach, it will obviously focus on the fight against what comes from the countries where jihad is currently taking place, namely Syria and Iraq, but also from all the countries of the Sahel, from Somalia to the Gulf of Guinea, from the region with Nigeria as its centre, and from many other places. The measures we will take in Belgium, the measures we are taking in Europe and the measures we are taking at international level are in the same direction. I will have the opportunity to take part in meetings at European level next week on this issue. Next week, too, in London, we will once again bring together the coalition that intervenes in Iraq in the same way. We will continue, because it is a matter of carrying out a real fight against barbarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u52	Minister, I appreciate your concern and commitment. The refugee problem that is now emerging, in second order, also requires the necessary care. I am pleased that you are adopting a global approach and that you will also advocate it with the Nigerian Government. The limited mission will be sent back there, hopefully with a slightly broader mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can only join you in the desire to address this problem in a global plurality. We must show these barbarians together that the values of democracy and freedom are much stronger than hatred and blood! I believe that we must also look back at the roots of this problem. They are ethnic, economic. Different factors need to be taken into account in this case. Since your function leads you to fly often, I would recommend that you take with you on your next flight, and perhaps read again, Gaston Bouthoul's Treaty of Polemology, which analyses the war and its effects but above all its causes. In the issue we are dealing with today, it is really the causes of evil that we must focus on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that not so long ago, some 40 years ago, in the same country, we experienced the famous Biafra war, which was extremely badly treated and which caused enormous loss of life and economic potential. I therefore think it would be good if Europe, through its partnerships with the Organization of African Unity, could act in this respect. This is an important part of our action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I wish you every success and, above all, strength to put an end to terrorism in Nigeria. It seems like a difficult task to me. I particularly hope that after the elections in Nigeria in February we will be able to focus on stability, prosperity, women's rights, education and democratic institutions. Moreover, we must show hope, because that too is an important message. If we have been able to stop extremism there, how can we restore hope to the Nigerian people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the department you are leading is obviously concerned with the fight against terrorism, which is very much being discussed this afternoon. You are in a preventive manner, to prevent attacks from taking place on our territory. You are repressive: if terrorists are arrested, they must be tried and punished. And we know all the teaching work to do in prison. On the preventive side, Mr. Minister, you announced that you were going to propose the extension of the wiretapping. By phone taping, I imagine that like me, you hear not only the tracking of conversations, but also the use of all the data related to, for example, tracking the gsm to know who the person has been in contact with, where he or she has appeared, where he or she has been in the country or abroad. I have even read that you are also considering extending it to new means of communication such as Skype, etc. I have two thoughts and two questions in relation to that, minister. I fully agree with you that listening to telephones, understood as I have just pointed out, is an essential element in the fight against terrorism. Don't worry. You also know, and I am quite convinced, that we can only act on this matter at the level of justice if we have guarantees that we can use the equipment, if tomorrow we must prosecute and punish candidates or terrorists. This must be done in accordance with the rules, and in particular with respect for fundamental rights. Justice could not tomorrow be deprived of the capacity to punish because the prosecution would have been tainted because it had been wrong at the outset. Second, and perhaps more fundamental, is the cost of these operations, which are now very much needed. Do I have to remind you that at the time of the budgetary discussions in committee, I asked you about the reduced means at the level of the costs of justice, in particular the costs of communication? You announced a reduction in the order of 7 million euros as part of the telephone taps. We know that you also have to repay a liability of 26 million euros. Minister, my two questions are very simple and you can answer them very easily, I believe. How are you actually going to start this increase in phone calls? With what safety nets, so that on the judicial level we have no surprises, and, above all, with what budgetary means? Are they included in your department's current resources? But then, to the detriment of what other areas of justice, which is already badly developed? Are you going to get new budgetary means? If so, how, and how high?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u57	Mr President, Mr Brotcorne, it is obvious that the decision will not be mine, but that of the government and finally of your Parliament. Let us be clear: I do not intend to broaden the range of means of communication which can be used to listen to telephones in relation to those already in use, but their definition is already broad enough. The aim will therefore be to ensure that certain offences, such as incitement, recruitment and training in terrorism, are accompanied by the possibility of listening to telephones, which is not yet the case. The scope of offences punishable by listening is therefore broadened. Moreover, this adaptation ensures the consistency of the legal framework and at the same time improves the possibilities of combating terrorism. As far as privacy is concerned, it is not about touching it more than it is at the moment. Telephone wiretapping must be authorized by the investigating judge, on the basis of reasons. In this case, therefore, privacy is sufficiently protected. As for the budget, the legal costs related to wiretapping for 2013 amounted to EUR 14.4 million. For 2014, the figures are not yet known. It is true that these costs, which are covered by the general budget for justice costs, are considerably delayed in their actual payment. I'm working on it. Discussions are under way with operators to reduce costs and to benefit more from our purchasing power as a large customer. It is also a matter of improving the administrative procedure in order to reduce the costs for operators and therefore what they charge Belgian Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I am reassured with regard to the first part of your answer: listening will not be multiplied, but the scope of the offences that may be encountered will be broadened. This does not affect individual freedoms or fundamental rights. Unfortunately, for the budget, I must note that, as in the course of the budget discussion, you are not giving any precise details. You already say you have difficulties, still have to pay a arrears, but at the same time you know that you will face an increase in needs. However, you remain silent about this: I do not receive an answer, I have no specific idea. Minister, I fear that, as the Prime Minister said earlier, the measures that the government is announcing to us, as if we were to reassure the public, will unfortunately not be accompanied by any budgetary means and that, therefore, they may remain a dead letter. That would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u59	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of concern in the hospitality sector about the introduction of the registered cash register system, abbreviated GKS. The mandatory registration of users is currently under way and should be completed by the end of February 2015. By 31 December 2015, all these checkout systems should be installed. At the same time, the government agreement provides for a number of accompanying measures, which would be introduced together with the compulsory catering register. At present, however, catering operators still have little idea of the measures to be taken at the same time as the cash register is being introduced. You have worked together with the Minister for Social Affairs on a plan of action and from this plan you will submit a number of proposals of already decided accompanying measures and new accompanying measures to the Council of Ministers. Can you tell me how many catering companies have already registered to work with the GKS since 1 January? The catering industry had the opportunity to register before 1 January and to employ the cash register. Can you tell me how many catering companies were already registered before 1 January? Can more than one cash register be implemented in one catering establishment? I also hear some contradictions about this. Can you explain more about the relevant plan of approach, in particular the accompanying measures needed to integrate this cash register? Did the various types of work in the catering sector be taken into account? There are not only permanent employees there, but also student workers and occasional workers. What is the timing for implementing these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, until today there are 2 706 catering establishments registered as GKS users. I'll tell them they registered. This means that by the end of February some 37 000 users will have to register and prepare their GKS before the end of 2015. If each operator registers in time, the implementation of the Catering till will not cause any problems for the sector. In 390 cases, such checkout systems have already been established. Some operators effectively have multiple cash registers. In total, 635 systems are now operational and activated. No significant problems have been identified to date. Secondly, with Mr Tommelein's and myself's plan of action, the aim is to propose additional measures to the government in the near future so that they can be introduced for the benefit of the sector. This implementation should take place no later than 1 October 2015, i.e. prior to the mandatory entry into service of the GKS on 1 January 2016. In addition to the exceptional measures already available to the catering industry today, the following additional measures are envisaged: it may fall back on more and also cheaper overtime, a more flexible system of casual work by increasing the limit of 100 days to 200, and the introduction of flexi-jobs giving workers who work four-fifths the opportunity to earn a net plus 25% of the employer's contribution in the hospitality sector. A technical study will also be carried out into a liberating farm levy for catering staff, on the one hand, and the extension of student labour, on the other. There will be an administrative simplification of the attendance of the personnel, independently of the system in which they operate, and a charter will be concluded with the sector and the various inspection services. It is correct that the measures in question effectively aim at all categories of labour and workers in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, I think it is very positive that you are giving attention and priority to this dossier. However, there is still a long way to go to get the 40 000 registrations and to carry out the 40 000 installations. This sector must have measures to ensure its viability. A reduction in the burden on this flexible and labour-intensive sector is therefore a must. I am glad that you say that all accompanying measures must be clear in advance. October 1st 2015 is a great date. I therefore propose that all the ministers concerned, because not only should you be responsible for the accompanying measures, use the time to engage in discussions with the catering sector. You said that all accompanying measures must be decided before the register becomes compulsory. I assume that if this is not the case, the introduction of the register will be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mr Janssen on his maiden speech. [[Applause]] Let us now suspend the sitting for a few minutes and resume our work at 4:35 p.m. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u63	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u64	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (735/1). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (735/1). The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u65	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u66	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u67	The vote on the 2015 budget of the CREG will take place later. The vote on the 2015 budget of CREG will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u68	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 January 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Carina Van Cauter and Mr Egbert Lachaert) amending the Code of Justice as regards the notification of judgments and judgments, No. 760/1. - the bill (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the law of 1 August 1979 on services provided by a foreign army or force situated in the territory of a foreign State in order to prohibit the departure of fighters to Syria or Iraq, No. 795/1. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Code of Belgian nationality in order to extend the scope for the revocation of nationality, No. 796/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u69	- the bill (Mr Hans Bonte) repealing an identity card, passport and travel documents of minors wishing to go to battle abroad, No. 768.1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) on the withdrawal of identity and travel documents from those wishing to leave abroad to fight there and commit terrorist acts, No. 797/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u70	- the bill (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Alain Mathot) imposing a tax on large assets, No. 770/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u71	- the legislative proposal (Mr Éric Massin cs) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations in order to stop limiting the right to benefits in kind to beneficiaries who prove that they are seeking active employment, No. 784/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u72	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 January 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Carina Van Cauter and Mr. Egbert Lachaert) amending the Judicial Code with regard to the notification of judgments and judgments, No. 760/1. - the bill (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the Act of 1 August 1979 concerning services in a foreign army or troop located in the territory of a foreign State, with a view to prohibiting the departure of combatants to Syria or Iraq, No. 795/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Belgian Nationality Code in order to extend the possibility of deprivation of nationality, No. 796/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u73	- the draft law (Mr Hans Bonte) on the withdrawal of the identity card, passport and travel documents of minors who wish to go abroad to fight, No. 768/1. - the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) on the removal of identity documents and travel documents for persons who wish to go abroad to fight and commit terrorist acts, No 797/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u74	- the bill (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Ms Laurette Onkelinx and Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Alain Mathot) to introduce a tax on major assets, No. 770/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u75	- the proposal for a law (Mr Éric Massin et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on the regulation of unemployment, aimed at abolishing the limitation of the time-limits for beneficiaries who prove an active search for employment, No 784/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u76	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u77	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 744/1 abolishing the time limit for benefits in kind. The devastating consequences of this measure have become apparent since 1 January: many tens of thousands of people are losing their benefits from this year on. According to the latest forecasts of the RVA, there would be more than 31 000 people this year, who would be forced to join the OMCW. It is an unjust and harsh measure, which, moreover, completely misses its purpose. We also see that the former Prime Minister of our country, Mr Di Rupo, had the courage to acknowledge that the measure was a mistake. He will certainly support our request for urgency. We want to give the previous Minister of Work the opportunity to change his mind by asking for urgency, because it is never too late for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u78	Mr President, in accordance with the current affairs debate which has just taken place, we are calling for urgent action on Bill 795, Bill 796 and Bill 797 which I tabled with Georges Dallemagne. These proposals are ready and can be considered very quickly. The points referred to are set out in the declaration. As the Prime Minister has issued a call to overcome the majority/opposition divides, I am sending him one in return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u79	Mr President, I have just heard an urgent appeal to support the urgency of a proposal that we find very important. Our answer is yes. Of course, since on your benches there is a proposal No. 784 tabled by the PS, which goes in the same direction, I suppose we will get reciprocity!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u80	Mr President, I would also like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. I would like to say a few words about the problem we were discussing earlier. The bill aims to prevent minors from engaging in armed combat abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u81	I propose that we first take a decision on Mrs Willaert's request for urgency on the proposal No. 744/1 by Mr Gilkinet and his associates. We're gonna vote by the seat and get up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u82	Can the same vote be taken on urgent motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Dallemagne and Mrs Matz? [[No, no, ……]] We shall be voting in favour of the request for urgent procedure for Amendments Nos 795/1, 796/1 and 797/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u83	We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u84	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of Bill No. 784/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u85	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004 on the transposition of Brussels International Airport Company (B.I.A.C.) in a public limited company governed by private law and on airport installations (No. 725/1). The government requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Royal Order of 27 May 2004 relating to the transformation of Brussels International Airport Company (B.I.A.C.) was tabled. private limited liability company and airport facilities (No 725/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u86	Mr President, there is no need to ask for urgency on this point, since I have readily placed it on the agenda of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u87	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 on the granting of the operating licence of Brussels Airport (No. 732/1). The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Royal Decree of 21 June 2004 granting the Brussels-National Airport Operating Licence (No. 732/1). I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u88	Mr President, without wishing to be discourteous to anyone, I note that there is no longer any member of the government. That seems to me to be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u89	You're right. Someone from the government has to be here. We'll ask someone. We're suspending the hearing. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u90	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u91	Colleagues, we are taking up our duties. The next item was the government's request for urgent treatment of a draft operating licence at Brussels Airport (No 732/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u92	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 6 January 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 6 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 011/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; A simple motion was tabled by Sophie Wilmès, Veerle Wouters and MM. Luk Van Biesen and Eric Van Rompuy. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 01/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Wilmès and Mr Veerle Wouters and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u93	Mr President, I call on my colleagues to support this motion on the particularly aggressive practices of the Belgian state in the area of regulation, a practice which exclusively benefits multinational companies in the deficit of all other taxpayers. In Europe, the wind is turning. Yesterday, more than a quarter of Members of the European Parliament supported the Green Group's request to open a committee of inquiry into aggressive tax practices in the Member States, particularly in the area of regulation. Our country can't stay behind. The legislation on the ruling must be amended, beginning with guaranteeing the publicity of the rules established in Belgium, in order to allow for internal and external control of the rules. Transparency in tax matters and the fight against tax dumping are two essential elements of the alternative to the austerity policies of this and other governments in Europe. I therefore ask for support on this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u94	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u95	Yes 77 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u96	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 7 January 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 7 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 009/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. David Clarinval, Jan Spooren, Vincent Van Quickenborne et Stefaan Vercamer. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 009/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr David Clarinval, Mr Jan Spooren, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also invite you to support this motion. The consequences of government decisions to restrict access to time credit are particularly severe for workers, mainly older workers who wish to reduce their working time at the end of their careers due to the psychological or physical burden of their employment. This would allow the commitment of young people to replace them. This is particularly the case for workers in the non-profit sector, whose access to the Tandem plan will be severely restricted by the measures decided by the government, although they obviously do not have a monopoly on the negative consequences of these decisions. This motion simply calls on the government to review its policy on the end of career and to enter into a dialogue with the social partners in the sector, who are unanimously seeking appropriate end-of-care measures, which are being challenged by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u98	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u99	Yes 76 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u100	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 7 January 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 7 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 004/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Olivier Maingain; A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 004/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Olivier Maingain; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u101	Yes 76 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u102	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 7 January 2015. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 7 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 005/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 005/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u103	Mr President, I have indeed had an interplay because the Brussels local authorities have long since ceased to provide proper bilingual services. Saying that is kicking in an open door. Everyone knows that he or she can always go there in French, but that this is often not the case in Dutch or in a very poor way. The situation is not new. Unfortunately, it is not new either that the Brussels government authorities which have to supervise bilingualism deliberately forsake such supervision. Language legislation is still federal. The Minister for the Interior therefore has the power to do something about the problem. He could set up an official working group on his own initiative to deal with the problem at large. With this motion for a recommendation, we would therefore urge the government to set up such a working party and to do something about the problem. I am therefore counting on the support of all Flemish nationalists here in the hemisphere. After all, it is only in this way that we can really change in practice. Otherwise, the Brussels abuses will continue, as they have been for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u104	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u106	Mr President, I would like to justify the abstention of the PTB elected representatives on this vote. We believe that, given the situation of the energy stock, in particular the extension of Doel 1 and 2, it is really important to be able to estimate the future nuclear rent. We believe that this is a mission of the CREG; it has already done so in the past. We wonder whether the budget that is being renewed, which is the same as the previous year, is sufficient to carry out this investigative work. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u107	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the CREG budget for the year 2015. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget of the CREG for 2015. This will be made known to CREG. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-15-54-plenair-ip027x.u108	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 January 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 22 January 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 January 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 January 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
