ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u1	Madam Minister, since 1 April 2015, we have noted a significant change in air traffic. For example, air traffic across the municipality of Tervuren has increased enormously, from 32 flights a day to as many as 160 flights a day, which is about 50% of all departing aircraft on Zaventem. They are all concentrated in a corridor above the municipality and cause heavy nuisance for the residents. The significantly deteriorated situation is a direct consequence of the judgment of a Brussels court prohibiting most flights over Brussels based on noise standards there. In addition, there was also nuisance of runway 19 due to the works on the take-off routes, but that nuisance is now over. So that's not relevant anymore. The city council of Tervuren stresses in a motion the economic importance of the airport and also wants to bear its share of the burden, but it is totally unacceptable that air traffic should no longer be spread and everything should be above Tervuren. The coalition agreement refers to a distribution plan, preferential job use and a proportional distribution. When will you work on a proportional distribution plan that distributes the nuisance evenly across all regions and across all surrounding municipalities? Can you confirm that such a plan is enshrined in a flight law, so that there is more legal certainty for all concerned? That was also in the coalition agreement. Can you confirm that now that the works are over, the preferential use of runways is re-applying, so that takeoff and landing on runway 19 only takes place in south winds?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u2	We are working on a structural solution that takes into account the surrounding municipalities of Brussels National Airport. It goes without saying that we must find a well-thought-out solution and that we must not rush into action. The layout of a flight law is registered in the government agreement and is actively pursued. In this way, more legal certainty will be provided through a fixed procedure for any change in flight procedures. In addition, we can prevent judgments that the citizens set against each other. Since 21 August and the end of the works on the Brussels National Airport site, the preferential runway use (PRS) is again applicable. Track 19 will therefore be used according to the PRS, so with strong south wind, as you indicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. On the one hand, you confirm everything I want to hear, but on the other hand, I do not hear much concrete progress. I understand, of course, that it is not possible to go ice over a night. There have also been many political casualties in that file. However, I do not think you should wait too long. There is a high risk that municipalities, including Tervuren, will initiate legal proceedings. With the government, you will thus find yourself in a very difficult situation, which will benefit no one. That is why we really hope for a political solution, which must not drag on for too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, it is possible to obtain a personalized plaque for payment. This is already the case for 10,000 Belgian motorists. In this way, they can, for example, satisfy a need for gloriole or write "my taylor is rich" or "road holes cause accidents". This possibility raises the question of roadside checks. In Belgium, the ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras that equip turntable radars do not recognize them. On-board cameras making automatic registration recognition in connection with the database of infringing vehicles, in particular for non-payment of road fines, are also not able to recognise them – at least for the time being. There is thus in fact an inequality between criminal drivers, depending on whether or not they have a personalized plate. This may also lead smugglers to acquire the same plates, which will protect them from identification during excessive speed. Abroad, these plates lead the police forces - probably as a result of suspicions of fraud - to stop the vehicles equipped with them, making it rather uncomfortable the tourist or professional stays of our compatriots concerned. Can you tell us how your foreign counterparts are dealing with this problem? I know you've been looking into this before. What expectations do they have for Belgium? What solutions have they put in place or are they waiting to be able to carry out their roadside checks without any problems? What solutions do you envisage to make the road safety work you are so concerned about easier and more efficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u5	Colleagues, I would like to make it clear that, for most speed controls, radars are used that are generally automatic or require the presence of a qualified agent. These devices can recognize all the plates without any problem. In addition, ANPR cameras effectively recognize the vast majority of personalized plates – that is, those of four characters or more. In the Flemish region, turntable radars can read all the plates, but it is not possible to apply automatic processing for those which consist of less than four characters. I recall what I explained in committee a few weeks ago: the vast majority of the plates consist of at least four characters. There is therefore absolutely no question of total impunity. The problem is that some ANPR cameras cannot read the other plates. On the basis of information from the United Kingdom, it turns out that in this country all cameras can perfectly recognize license plates with a different combination. The cause of the problem is therefore a defect in the software used by ANPR cameras installed by the Regions. The policy I intend to pursue includes several measures to optimize safety work on our roads. The most obvious definitive solution is therefore to adapt the camera software. I remain in contact with my regional counterparts and, if this proves useful, with my European counterparts to find a solution. It always seems necessary to recall that, as politicians, we must first and foremost convey the message that respect for traffic rules, including rules on speed limits, is an obligation
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u6	Minister, I would like to say that I appreciate your answer, which corresponds well to your temperament. We could have had a reaction not to sell these personalized plates any more, but you prefer to tackle the problem with the right end, namely to blow up the technical lock which, as you pointed out, is only Belgium. In Britain, it is indeed solved. I can only congratulate you and encourage more Belgian motorists to contribute to the strengthening of public finances, with a smile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u7	Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question following a question of 25 February 2015, following the approval of the GRUP and the new Brownfield Covenant of the Flemish Government, which gave the green light to real estate project Uplace. That reply showed that SNCB would submit an urban planning permit for the Machelen railway station at the end of June 2015. I am not a great advocate of the project myself, but the arrival of this GEN station is indispensable if Uplace is to be there. Without an optimal development of the public transport network, this means a heavy impact on traffic pressure in and around the zone. In order to ensure that the arrival of Uplace does not lead to a massive traffic infarct on the Brussels ring and in the immediate vicinity of the shopping centre, the construction of this GEN station is therefore crucial. Firstly, has a town planning permit already been submitted for the new stop town Machelen? If not, when is this application expected? Secondly, what is the deadline for the realization of the stop site Machelen? After all, the Flemish Government makes it very clear that Uplace can only get there if this stop has been achieved effectively. Thirdly, was the transfer of the Buda stop to Machelen already included in the amendments to SNCB's multi-annual investment plan? If so, when did this happen? If not, what is the deadline for this? Fourthly, has a cooperation agreement been concluded between SNCB, Vilvoorde and Machelen on the establishment and surroundings of the new stop? If yes, what is the content of this agreement? If not, when is this cooperation agreement expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u8	On 22 June 2015, Ms Van Hoof, the management committee of SNCB decided to submit the application for the urban permit of the stop Machelen. It is expected by 30 September 2015. The total cost of the stop has been estimated at 5.4 million euros, of which about 50% is borne by SNCB and 50% by Infrabel. The new multi-annual investment plan, the format of which has begun, will make it possible to define the planning for the execution of the works as well as the planning of all coherent operations. A cooperation agreement between SNCB, Machelen and Vilvoorde has been prepared for the establishment of the stopping point. On 22 June 2015, the Board of Directors of SNCB also granted its agreement to that agreement. The approval by the local authorities of Machelen and Vilvoorde is parallel and is expected in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There's obviously an evolution in the file. Today the urban permit is submitted, if I have understood your answer correctly. I note that since the beginning of this year the costs have been increased, because at that time you were talking about 3.2 million, while at the same time we are talking about 5.4 million. I think it is an aberrant that public money is being used to make such a shopping project accessible. It is strange that the actual investor does not contribute to making it accessible through the GEN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u10	Madam Minister, on 23 July 2015, we learned from the press that a kind of virtual ILS, known as Required Navigation Performance System (RNP), can be used at Deurne airport. This is a further step in the aviation sector. We come from a situation with conventional routes, using, among other things, landmarks, and the Area Navigation System, which already works with waypoints, but still forms straight links between the waypoints. Here we are talking about real routes, which means serious progress in relation to the previous systems. This gives us a kind of curved route and no longer the straight line. That means the air navigation system will be able to calculate the routes. In any case, it is very clear that we need to move towards such a system. It is to be welcomed that the system can soon be applied in Antwerp. However, the question is to what extent the system is already applicable to the fleet calling at our airports and to what extent it can be deployed at other airports. What percentage of the aircraft that currently operate our airports, both Zaventem and regional airports, is equipped with technology that allows such an RNP approach? Do you have a view on the roll-out of the system at the other airports? Which calendar is used? Does it also mean that all conventional routes and routes built through the Area Navigation System will be replaced by routes that will be defined by the new system? If necessary, we must also take this into account when we conclude and develop airport agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u11	Mr Wollants, I have the impression that you are well informed and that you have a refined technical knowledge. I will therefore try to answer you correctly. Global aviation is currently in transition from traditional navigation to Performance-Based Navigation (PBN). In that context, the implementation of RNP approach procedures at Belgian airports started in 2015. It should be completed by the end of 2017. Priority is given to jobs that do not have an ILS. A first PBN approach procedure for Antwerp airport will be published by the end of 2015. The other airports will follow in 2016 and 2017. The implementation of PBN depends not only on the availability of a procedure, but also on the equipment and certification of on-board equipment, as well as on the training and qualifications of crews. In March 2015, the RNP standard procedure could have been used at 17 % of landings at Antwerp airport, at 58 % at Brussels national, at 76 % at Charleroi, at 10 % at Liège and at 63 % at Ostend. The number of aircraft equipped for RNP approach procedures is likely to be higher. As regards the route of departure and arrival, a transition from conventional routes to RNAV routes (routes aériennes reliées and points précis) is required. Only then can you switch to RNP routes. However, this is not currently the case, as few users are yet able to use this standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It confirms my suspicion that we need to use this technology, but the aircraft still need to be adapted to it, so that we can take effective advantage of it. This means that we will have to take this into account in defining the routes in a number of years' time. In this way we will be able to proceed much more precisely. Today there are still ten different routes as ten planes follow a conventional route. The new system will be more precise. Moreover, you must take these new opportunities into account in the debate on fair and balanced distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u13	Question No 5882 by Mrs Dumery, Question No 6052 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Question No 6303 by Mr Van den Bergh Question No 5891 by Mrs Dumery, Questions No 5907 by Mrs Dumery and No 6054 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu Question No 59, by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's 6053 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u14	Madam Minister, on 9 September, a report was presented in the Koppen programme on travellers who had forgotten their subscription and on the extent to which staff could respond adequately and appropriately according to the current system. We have talked on several occasions in this committee about the consequences of forgetting subscriptions, about the levying of administrative fees, about going back to the point of contact to recover and so on. You know I'm not a big fan of that. SNCB now also has a commercial management board. I believe that we should apply the KISS principle: keep it short and simple. Then the travellers will know what it is about, as will the staff. According to that reportage, that is anything but the case today. I have already asked for figures on this matter in previous questions. The procedure has been in force since 1 February. How many people have invoked the argument that they forgot their subscription? Since the start of the new procedure, how many complaints has the SNCB customer service already received about the problem of forgetting a faulty subscription? Following this report, as well as comments from trade unions and passenger associations, has SNCB assessed the procedure for forgetting a subscription? Does she wish to revise this? If so, what are the arguments for doing so? If not, what are the arguments for not doing so? Has there been any consultation with the commercial management during the layout and start-up of this on-board fare and the surcharges for forgotten subscriptions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u15	In answer to your first two questions, I give you a table. A passenger must have a valid ticket when boarding the train. A commuter who has forgotten his subscription and pays the on-board fare can obtain the refund at the ticket counter without any charge. In the old system this was only allowed twice. There has indeed been consultation between the Transport Directorate and the Marketing & Sales Directorate on the adaptation of the regulations. The introduction of the rule allowing a subscriber to forget his subscription twice a year resulted in a continuous increase in the number of findings of irregularity for this infringement. This led to a higher workload for our train guides. This phenomenon therefore absolutely had to be reduced and measures had to be taken. SNCB is not currently considering any revision measures. The objectives of the Boordtariff project are to simplify regulation, to avoid many discussions on the train about whether or not the passenger is in order without a ticket and to drastically reduce the number of cases of aggression. Train escort staff should also be able to concentrate fully on their main tasks at the service of the traveller. SNCB will make every effort to further stress the regulation of the on-board fare in the various training courses for the relevant services of train escorts and ticket operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We already know the reasons for SNCB. In reply to my question of March, on 1 April, you replied in committee that 6 000 fines were issued in February, of which 1 846 concerned customers who had forgotten their train tickets. They were arranged and refunded at the counter. In the table you give me, there's procedure C170 35 435. I'm surprised by that high number. It was said immediately that we need to nuance this number, but this high number shows that the method of working can be revised. In my opinion, the extra work required for this is a huge cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u17	Madam Minister, when there is an announcement about a GEN light around Antwerp, we certainly get our attention. After all, we are convinced that this is a good thing. In the past we have already discussed the enormous problems during peak hours in Antwerp. Traffic stops there and this costs a lot of money to people and businesses. Moreover, this has an impact on the family life of people who, for example, are far too late to take their children out of school. It is to be welcomed that such a plan will be put in place. However, a few questions arise. I have seen the proposed presentation, but could you give a little more explanation to the suburban network? On a certain slide there was a budgetary squeeze and additional capacity needs to be created, sought and financed. Then where do the financial resources come from? Is there any provision for that? To what extent can this be consistent with the decline in budgets? At some point we saw a slide stating that the GEN-light can only come there when the infrastructure costs, which are still 67 %, would fall. Is there any agreement that these infrastructure costs would be reduced? Otherwise it will not be presented to the representatives of the political authorities. To what extent has the Investment Committee already approved this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Mr Geerts has already outlined the project. It is indeed a good thing that there would be a GEN in Antwerp and that thought would be given to it. The coalition agreement also states that it is intended to develop, alongside Brussels, GEN networks for the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège. The first studies ordered concern Antwerp and were apparently already discussed on the Board of Directors of SNCB. The local authorities were also informed. A steering committee was set up. Flemish minister Ben Weyts, who is also a requesting party, was involved. The aim is to examine how De Lijn and SNCB can better coordinate their trains, buses and trams, thus reducing door-to-door travel time, thus creating better chain mobility, which makes it interesting for the traveller to leave the car at home and use public transport. I have noticed two more bottlenecks in the project. Firstly, the high infrastructure fee currently makes it impossible for SNCB to increase the frequency cost-effectively. Mr Geerts has already mentioned this. SNCB is actually asking for a different scheme, so that the infrastructure fee is less heavy for additional trains. Secondly, the project is being crushed from PS angle and also from sp.a angle. I am therefore surprised by Mr Geerts' statement. Mr Smet, former Minister of the Flemish Government, felt that Brussels' GEN should be given priority. According to him, it is not possible to release funds for Antwerp until the project has been completed in Brussels. However, I believe that the GEN-Brussels is being delayed by a deficit of EUR 500 million and not because plans are now being developed for Antwerp. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. When do you expect the results of the study on the GEN-Antwerp? When do the studies start for the other cities, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège? What is the estimated budget cost for Antwerp's GEN? What are your views on SNCB's proposal to change the infrastructure fee for additional trains? Finally, what is the latest state of affairs in GEN Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u19	Madam Minister, the question has already been raised. A lot of questions have already been asked. I shall proceed immediately to the questions I had put. When are you planning the final decision on the file? What will be the cost of it? This is a very important question, both for investment and for the estimated operating costs, especially in the light of the discussion on road charges. What about the investment budgets? Are they currently available in the investment plan, in order to get the works started? What is the state of play in the other cities where a suburban network is planned, namely Ghent, Liège and Charleroi?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u20	Nor will I repeat what my fellow Members have already mentioned, but I do have a point of view. I believe that we must avoid fighting between the different cities on this issue, because we must welcome any progress that can be made in the development of suburban networks around different cities in our country. The fact that Antwerp is now perhaps the first of the four cities mentioned in the coalition agreement also has a lot to do with less pollution plans being made there in order to cope with traffic flows during major work and later on the ring. We must be careful that there is no bidding between the different cities. The key, of course, lies with the lane fee. The crucial question, Madam Minister, is whether there is any evolution in the ideas on the path fee, which SNCB has been putting forward for several years as the key to achieving an additional supply. For the plans, as they were proposed, there should not be so much investment. There must be sufficient rolling stock and there must be sufficient staff, but the lines are there. The main aim is to increase the frequency of the trains, so that more trains can run on those lines. In particular, the road fee is included. It is important that this path fee is not charged at 100% when an additional train is placed on a line. That is the crucial element of this question. Finally, Mr Geerts mentioned that he saw the PowerPoint presentation. I haven't seen it myself. I was wondering which local authorities are involved in the development of the GEN, because it was mentioned in the press that the authorities of the surrounding municipalities were involved in the plans. I live 25 kilometres from there, I am a vessel of Mobility, but I haven't heard anything about it from the municipal council so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that, in accordance with the government agreement, it is studying the implementation of a possible suburban network around Antwerp. Along with this study and in the framework of the project "Slim to Antwerp', SNCB has also studied the problem of mobility at the Antwerp ring, all in order to launch a suburban network by December 2016. At the moment SNCB tells me that no official decision has yet been taken. There are still a number of financial aspects that need to be dealt with. However, SNCB calculated the potential of drivers who could take the train. On the basis of this potential, SNCB has identified a number of possible extensions of train connections and parking facilities for cars and bicycles. The extensions studied do not require any additional investment in rail infrastructure: the costs are limited to trains, train staff and infrastructure charges. Infrabel is prepared to look at the issue of infrastructure provision for the GEN-Antwerp as part of the overall revision of the usage fee. Readyness about the financial possibilities is necessary before the possible expansions of the suburban network in Antwerp can be communicated. As regards the questions about Liège, Charleroi and Ghent, SNCB informs me that these three studies are still ongoing. SNCB shall consult with the three cities and the respective regions. Other actors involved include De Lijn and TEC. The SNCB is planning to be ready by the end of this year. Finally, SNCB will launch its S offer in Brussels at the end of this year. This means that customers can use the new stations Mouterij as well as Thurn and Taxis, but also new connections thanks to the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. The latter means, among other things, a reduced journey time of seven minutes between Leuven and Brussels-Schuman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I can therefore conclude that no decision has been taken, that only an investigation has been launched and that the crucial factor of infrastructure fees is still being negotiated. We will follow up on this dossier, and we know that such matters take time. However, I think it is important for SNCB to use the 20-20-20 principle in its study, especially at 20 kilometres from the city every 20 minutes to guarantee a connection that takes someone to the city within 20 minutes. That's essential. I am only looking at Antwerp at the moment, because we know this situation best. This will be essential in the context of the accessibility of the city. I suppose this is also the case for the other cities. If this suburban network is to be successful, it must be based on that principle and we must take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u23	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I note that Infrabel is willing to look at the problem of the path fee. I think there is indeed the key, as colleagues have said. I am convinced that there are opportunities to offer a solution that has no budgetary impact on Infrabel. I agree with what Mr Van den Bergh said. These projects should not lead to discussion between cities. Each project is important for mobility around cities. I hope that Mr Geerts will talk to his colleague Pascal Smet, who used to be Minister in the Flemish Government, to review his attitude to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, when we see the current problems of mobility, we must make the next few years of the development of such people a major priority. It is not just about Brussels, but also about Antwerp and the other cities mentioned. There should be sufficient budgets for this if investments are necessary for exploitation. An important factor will indeed be the infrastructure fee. If adjustments are made in this area, which we believe should be done, they will be for the benefit of all the Genesis. They will benefit from the GEN of Brussels, but they will also benefit Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège. So we should not try to compete with each other. On the other hand, we need to draw up a vision of how we can address the mobility buttons around cities as quickly and efficiently as possible. That must be the priority of your policy. Hopefully, my questions are a starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to endorse what the previous speakers have said. The problem goes even further than the various mentioned Genesis. The benchmark presented by SNCB before the summer of 2015 also showed that our rail network is being used fairly narrowly. Our existing railway capacity is not new but existing capacity is used rather limited compared to other countries. The main obstacle to this is the infrastructure fee. The infrastructure fee should not actually increase, regardless of whether there is one train or five trains per hour. That fee should be the same. In this way, there is an incentive for SNCB to introduce additional trains on certain connections. After all, if SNCB puts in an additional train today, the high infrastructure fee will result in an additional loss for SNCB. So that's where the key lies. This problem must therefore be addressed in order to create an additional supply on our rail network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, on 1 April last I asked you about an important step forward in terms of cross-border mobility: the single pricing project. This progress followed the bilateral meeting between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg held on 5 February 2015. In its August newsletter, SNCB announces that people who regularly travel by train to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and who can benefit, via their Luxembourg employer, from a mPass allowing them to travel profitably on Grand-Ducal public transport, will be able, from 1 October 2015, to combine this mPass with the SNCB Flex Pass. To date, this mPass was not combinable with a SNCB subscription because it did not cover the portion of the journey between the border point and the first Luxembourg railway station. This new route complement will now combine a mPass with an annual SNCB subscription from a Belgian railway station in the border area. While we can welcome this progress, I would nevertheless like to make a few comments. This measure will only apply to frontier workers whose employers agree to buy mPasses for their employees because one cannot buy mPass on an individual basis. The mPass formula (and thus also the Flex Pass) is only annual. The tariff reduction announced does not come directly from SNCB; it comes partly from the reduced cost of the Luxembourg mPass but also, mainly, from the potential intervention of Luxembourg employers in this cost. Minister, what about other commuters (current or future) who work in SMEs or whose employer does not propose to acquire mPass? This fare reduction does not apply to employees who only take a monthly subscription or at certain periods of the year and does not apply to other travellers. Do you have any proposals for these travellers? When is true cross-border pricing with SNCB-specific trade policy? Do you have any concrete projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u27	Madam, the Flex Pass is accessible only to all beneficiaries of a mPass and has been in pre-sale since 15 September at the ticket offices of the Belgian railway stations in the border area at a price of 24 euros per year. For non-mPass beneficiaries, SNCB always offers its cross-border home-working subscription to all Luxembourg stations. It is the responsibility of Luxembourg companies to offer or not to offer mPass to their employees. Companies wishing to propose mPass in order to promote smooth mobility with their staff should contact Verkeiersverbond. The validity of the subscription and its conditions of access depend on those of the mPass issued by the CFL and the Luxembourg Verkeiersverbond. SNCB stresses that cross-border pricing cannot be unilaterally designed by an operator. It must be designed with the third-party operator, the CFLs in this particular case, and must therefore take account of the specificities of the two countries and the economic balances of the two operators. Despite these constraints and after evaluating the results of the Flex Pass, I intend to carry out further actions in favour of cross-border mobility in the future. They can only be clarified through further consultation with all relevant partners. I see my Luxembourg colleague next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for the announcement of this meeting next week. We will be attentive to the results of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u29	Madam President, Madam Minister, last April I asked you about Stockem's "Park and Ride" project, which is expected to come into being in mid-2016, after the move of the SNCB traction plant which would then leave space available for a parking space of 200 to 300 seats. You explained to me in your response that a business study on the potential for additional customers that would represent a Park and Ride instead of the current SNCB workshop in Stockem-Viville was under way and that if this potential study concluded that the Park and Ride was relevant, it would be followed by a feasibility study and a business case, which will analyse in detail the commercial, financial and technical issues. Minister, do you have any of the findings of the business study you were talking about? If so, what are they? Is it planned to launch a feasibility study and a business case, if not already done? How long could these studies be carried out? What will be the necessary arrangements for the operation of this future Stockem Park and Ride and within what period of time will they be carried out? Is the creation of a new wharf planned? Are you considering the introduction of a third route? What will be the road infrastructure improvements to be carried out? Have you contacted the TEC services to arrange correspondence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u30	Madam, SNCB informs me that the Stockem Park and Ride's potential commercial study is under way and the results are not yet available. Since the launch of a feasibility study and a business case is contingent on the results of the potential study, their timing has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We will be patient, but we will return to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u32	Mrs. Fonck is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u33	Madam Secretary, another train has recently been derailed in Buizingen. That would have been due to excessive speed. Is it true that the incident was due to excessive speed? Has the engineer been on his shift long? Did he have any line knowledge? Did the TBL1+ system work? Probably that was the case, but of course that has no impact on the speed. ERTMS would have had that. I assume the locomotive was equipped with TBL1+. Is that right? What delays were actually recorded? Has the Investigation Body been deployed for Accidents? Finally, the previous train accident was a number of years ago. Do Infrabel and SNCB already have a view on the application for judicial proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u34	Madam Minister, Mr Geerts has already outlined the facts and I shall be brief. Can you explain the accident? Did you get confirmation that it was due to excessive speed of the train driver? If not, what is the cause of the incident? How does SNCB sensitize its train drivers to respect speed limits? What sanctions does a train driver risk driving too fast? It is reported that the driver involved in the accident has been put on an inactive position. How does SNCB or Infrabel check that train drivers respect speed limits? Finally, what guidance does a train driver get after being caught driving too fast?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u35	Colleagues, I have been informed of the investigative body's decision to initiate an investigation following the incident. Therefore, on the circumstances of the derailment, I will not make any statements about the management of driving and compliance with speed limits. I will respond without deducing any connection to the September 10 incident. Sensitising train drivers with a view to respecting speed limits and their importance is discussed in detail during basic training. In doing so, compliance with imposed speeds is evaluated not only by the monitors on the track during practice, but also during various simulator exercises. In addition, there are numerous checks during unannounced accompanying journeys by the staff on the track. In addition, the journeys made are analysed in detail by the control centre on a sample basis (...). The train drivers receive detailed feedback on this. In the event of multiple exceedances of the permitted speed, the driver shall initially be suspended for safety reasons. After examination, the disciplinary rules of the SNCB group are applied with penalties of up to three months' driving ban. Compliance with the speed limits by the train driver shall be verified by the analysis of the journey registration, the black box, the guidance by track surveillance staff or by on-board equipment such as TBL1+, TBL2 and ETCS. In the event of an actual exceedance of the permitted speed, a theoretical examination of the train driver's competence shall be carried out and provided with guidance on the track. There is also the possibility that the train driver may be sent to the internal prevention service CPS for further research. In accordance with the ERTMS master plan, the deployment of the ETCS system is planned by 2022. In the incident of 10 September, 9 passenger trains were abolished, 29 passenger trains were partially abolished, 307 national passenger trains accumulated a total delay of 3,740 minutes, 21 international passenger trains, a total delay of 149 minutes and 7 freight trains, a total delay of 342 minutes. Finally, according to SNCB and Infrabel, the file relating to the investigation of the Buizingen disaster in 2010 is still with the investigating judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u36	Madam Minister, I will read your answer and, if necessary, ask a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u37	Madam Secretary, I'll follow up on the file as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u38	Madam Minister, this is a specific question about parking at the station in Wetteren, which is apparently going to be paying. We have a few questions because there are no alternatives in that area. I would like to generalize my question by asking if a project has been started to enter more paying parking. For Wetteren, SNCB motivates the paying parking with the argument that neighborhood residents apparently use the parking of SNCB. Is the risk not, however, because SNCB makes the parking pay, that the burden or nuisance moves to the surrounding streets, with the result that the municipality will have to review the policy of free parking? On the B-Parking website we find three formulas, especially for regular train passengers, for occasional train passengers and for non-train passengers. For example, an occasional train traveller in Ghent-Sint-Pieters pays up to 7 euros per day. An annual subscription for the car park there as a commuter costs 448 euros and that is a lot of money. Madam Secretary, how many parkings does SNCB have at its stations and how many of them are paying? Are there criteria for the rates of the different station parkings, for example in terms of population, location in the centre or peripheral area or close to tourist attractions? We didn't find a line in it. Has it been calculated what the cost will be for a commuter to park at the station of Wetteren? The commuters have to pay for their commuting with their subscription and now they have to pay for the parking. To what extent is consultation with the municipalities concerned on the introduction of paying parking? How much are the annual revenues for SNCB from paying parking? As part of the modernisation plan, there was a modal shift which encouraged people to take the train and leave their car in the station parking lot. To what extent is the introduction of paying parking in line with this policy vision? Isn't there a risk that people will drop out by paying parking?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u39	Madam President, Minister, the management of SNCB's car parks has been receiving attention since a number of travellers were rightly insurgent about the sometimes very significant increase in the price of subscriptions and the daily price for non-subscribers. Those who benefited from free locations are now asked to exempt themselves from a sum of 250 to 400 euros per year, without any means of discussion. This situation, recently experienced in La Hulpe, in Braine-le-Comte (the mayor was present at the beginning of the meeting), in Leuze or Soignies, is vexatious for commuters and travellers who see their purchasing power under this charge. What objective criteria are used, Minister, to define free car parks and paid car parks? How are the negotiations going? What role do municipalities play? How can one explain that a commuter who lives in Braine-le-Comte (at random) has to pay a sum of 300 euros a year for parking while a shuttle from Jurbise (totally random) benefits from it free of charge? Do you not think that such a policy contributes to the commuter turning more towards carpooling or taking his vehicle squarely since the overall cost of travelling by train will have increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u40	In 393 stations, SNCB owns passenger parking facilities. In total, it has 650 parking lots. Of this number, 67 parking lots are to be paid for, as well as 35 of the 555 stations and stops. With regard to the criteria for tariffs and the placing of an access check, I refer to my replies to the written questions Nos 444 by Mr Goffin and 316 by Mr Nollet. The revenue from the parking lots will cover the costs of the bicycle parkings and the bicycle points. This amounts to EUR 2 million in 2015. It appeared that where free parking was introduced a part of the commuters who came to the station in a way other than by car, on foot, by bike or by bus, had given up this means of transport and instead took the car again. This has led to a significant increase in demand for parking spaces. It is therefore absolutely necessary to introduce a parking strategy for the largest stations. The pricing policy for the parking lots reflects the spirit of the management contract, taking into account the type of user. The subscribed commuter must pay on average about 1 euro per day. First, the purpose of the parking fee is to cover operational costs. When it is decided to place an access control on a station car park, SNCB and its subsidiary B-Parking contact the municipal authorities in order to harmonise mobility and intermodality around the station concerned. Numerous collaborations are also set up as part of the setting up of local events (corderies, carnivals) to welcome participants to the festivities. In this case, the city ensures the snow removal and salting of the parking lot in return. There is also another model for controlled but barrier-free parking. In this case, the municipality verifies the validity of the parking tickets. For car parks where access control is not justified it is common for a small road convention to apply. It is then the city or commune that manages the parking lot and the station square. SNCB has validated a 2015-2018 plan of car parks to be equipped with an access control. In this case, the parking is paid. An access control is justified if one of the criteria is met. Jurbise is not yet part of the car parks where control equipment is required. For your perfect information, the municipality will, on its own funds, erect a new parking lot for commuters. He'll stay free. SNCB informs me that an article published on September 8 in the newspaper Le Soir dealing with the prices of La Hulpe's car park has many errors. The statements do not reflect the reality of the many exchanges and meetings that have taken place since last May. The price of a parking space is 6,60 euros for a casual train traveller who takes a ticket at the entrance to the parking lot. The commuter will pay EUR 1.47 per day on the basis of an annual subscription and 220 working days, parking costs which are tax deductible and 100% refundable by the employer, as is the case for the train subscription. To date, 133 commuters have purchased a car park subscription. The sale of subscriptions is steadily increasing. SNCB therefore finds no passenger leakage. The rates at La Hulpe are identical to those at the Genval train station. This logic will also be followed for the parking lots at the Rixensart station.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u41	Madam Minister, I will leave the specific reply on La Hulpe to my colleague, although I have also read that article in L.Echo. Within the framework of a mobility policy, I understand that there may be paying parking in cities such as Antwerp and Brussels, but in more rural municipalities it cannot be introduced, because the burden will be shifted to the municipalities. Negotiating with the municipalities to find a better solution is, of course, always appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u42	Minister, I have listened carefully to you and I will go back to your answers to the written questions. As the first part consists of an aggregation of figures, I will consult the full report calmly. I also wonder, like my colleague, about the potential impact of this disparity in management. This can no doubt be explained historically. However, in view of the forthcoming management contract, it is important to develop a more general strategy in order to achieve a more egalitarian treatment of stations, obviously taking account of their differences. It is clear that situations vary according to their size. I will allow myself to come back to this, especially when we discuss the much-anticipated management contract to be concluded with SNCB, Infrabel, not to mention the subsidiaries – which would be a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u43	Madam President, Madam Minister, in a commendable effort to ensure transparency, Belgocontrol and Brussels Airport launched last February the Brussels Airport Traffic Control website available at www.batc.be. Overflights can monitor air traffic and runway use in Brussels-National in real time. However, residents of Etterbeek, Auderghem, Woluwe-Saint-Lambert and Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, whose messages you probably also received, find frequent discrepancies between the radar tracks on the BATC site and the reality they observe. According to BATC's tracks, they are no longer flying. In reality, they still see planes flying over their homes on a regular basis. While the moratorium has greatly improved the situation, it has not eliminated any overflights. The mismatch between the tracks as indicated on the BATC site and reality is demonstrated by videos as well as hundreds of photos, made by the residents. They can be found on the poetically titled Facebook page "BATC's all about it". Precise benchmarks, such as buildings, provide evidence of offsets. The difference would vary between 500 m and more than 2.5 km. All these videos or photos show, according to the inhabitants, that the tracks provided by Belgocontrol and provided on the site would not be accurate. Minister, do you confirm these discrepancies between the tracks of the BATC site and the observations of the residents? If so, how do you explain them? Are steps being taken to correct the situation, in a spirit of transparency, which led to the establishment of the site in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u44	Dear colleague, the visualization tool of trajectories on batc.be allows a representation on cartographic background. Trajectories are automatically established on the basis of CANAC's radar data, which is also used for air navigation control. In terms of accuracy, the CANAC system determines the position of the aircraft by cross-checking the data transmitted by 17 ground radars located in Belgium and neighbouring countries. This crossover makes it possible to determine the positioning of devices, whatever their type or equipment, with great reliability and precision. The accuracy of the positioning of the devices is also regularly checked by calibration tests. The positioning of aircraft relative to a ground point is very difficult to estimate visually. A plane is indeed visible and audible at a certain distance around it depending on its altitude, terrain and noise level. The higher the altitude, the more you can feel like you're flying vertically. For all these reasons, it would be worrying if these tracks did not reflect reality, but I am continuing my work of transparency with Belgocontrol to ensure that all instructions are scrupulously followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. There are two things to worry about. First of all, we are used to seeing Belgocontrol do anything and use roads according to the wind standards it defines itself. We know that. But in this case, it is more serious because the inhabitants denounce that it would not mention the road that the plane actually took. This is what the videos and other photos taken on site seem to show. This raises two points. On the one hand, we must be very careful when establishing the vliegwet which you were talking to my colleague, Mr Spooren, at the beginning of the committee. Indeed, if the vliegwet is set on its way, it could be even more difficult to establish air routes. On the other hand, the independent supervisory authority which is included in the government agreement and which aims to monitor what Belgocontrol actually does will be all the more interesting, including to verify the accuracy, in a spirit of transparency, of what Belgocontrol transmits to the inhabitants and residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, through the action of the Federal State and the Regions, Belgium is bound to respect its international greenhouse gas reduction targets. Belgium must urgently prepare to implement the elements of the European Energy-Climate package for the period 2013-2020. The federal authority contributes to the achievement of Belgium's objective through a series of commitments. For the period 2013-2020, the minimum contributions of the Federal State are defined by aiming at several important policies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions: product policy, taxation, the development of offshore wind energy and, above all, transport. As far as transport is concerned, a fundamental objective concerns in particular an increase in the number of passengers and goods transported by rail. For the period 2013-2025, the number of seats occupied would be increased by 2.5 per cent per year. In addition, a target of 8 per cent increase in the number of train kilometres would also be foreseen. However, in your "Strategic vision for rail in Belgium", presented last July, you do not at any time envisage a scenario of growth in the number of passengers or an increase in the relative share of the train in overall mobility, on the contrary. Minister, how do you expect to achieve the above targets for increasing the number of train kilometres and seating positions? What means will they be used to achieve these objectives? What do these targets represent in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions? Will they live up to Belgium's international commitments? What share of the emission reduction potential do they represent? Finally, can you confirm to me that there is a relationship between these objectives and those that will be formalized in future management contracts for both SNCB and Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u47	Mr Cheron, growth in travel is one of the major challenges for SNCB in the years to come. The number of seats proposed should be in line with the actual use of trains. In recent years, SNCB has been able to respond to annual passenger growth of about 2.5% by adapting train compositions and using dual-stage equipment (cars M5, M6 and AM08) without having to increase train kilometres. The current supply still has potential for growth. However, the SNCB's IPP provides for the acquisition of M7 double-story equipment to meet, among other things, this growth of travellers. By expanding the supply of trains and making it more attractive and by continuing to develop the stations as multimodal nodal points, I intend to convince more citizens to become customers of SNCB and, therefore, to abandon the car. The SNCB trains are 97% electric traction trains, diesel cars being used for only 3% of the supply. If we take into account both direct CO2 emissions from diesel trains and those indirectly caused by electricity and diesel production, this means an average CO2 emission of 19 grams per passenger-kilometre for train passengers in 2014. This is seven times less than the average of 139 grams per kilometre of the automobile. Therefore, increasing the supply of trains does contribute to the achievement of international climate goals. Between 1990, the base year for the Kyoto targets, and 2014, the average CO2 emissions per kilometre fell by a good 60% in Belgium. My goal is that, over the next few years, the average CO2 emissions per kilometre will continue to fall for train travel through the use of new railway equipment, increased productivity, greater supply of green electricity and other measures to improve energy efficiency. Approximately 20% of the energy consumed by SNCB is required to operate stations, workshops and offices. SNCB committed in 2006 to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020 compared to 2005. Thanks to the numerous energy efficiency measures already taken in SNCB buildings, this target was achieved in 2014. In addition, CO2 emissions from non-traction energy consumption fell by almost 50% as a result of the switch from fuel oil to natural gas for building heating. SNCB is committed to improving its energy efficiency in buildings by an additional 7% by 2020 compared to 2014. In the new management contract, of course, the sustainability aspect is given due attention. I will report as soon as this document is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of this and will carefully examine all the figures you have given us. However, I am a little surprised that I did not hear any reference to the 2013-2020 Plan itself. I hope that Belgium, in all its components, will table this document as part of the Energy-Climate package. I have not heard a precise answer. Most of all, I heard an argument about what SNCB and Infrabel can do incidentally. I will allow myself to return, perhaps to Minister Marghem, to the overall objectives of the Energy-Climate package, as laid down in the international agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u49	Madam Minister, the 2008-2015 Roadmap aims to improve the safety of the consideration. The aim is to reduce the annual number of accidents by 25% by the end of this year compared to 2007. For this reason, a total of two hundred considerations must be abolished. The train disaster and the near train disaster in Buizingen show that safety must remain the absolute top priority. It therefore seems to be a good thing that high-risk ground-level consideration will be abolished or replaced. However, the practice is different. The list of plans to be abolished was drawn up on the basis of the use, while the plan itself confirms that there is no correlation between the number of accidents and the potential risk, even if the only risk parameter considered is the number of trains crossing the road. Moreover, the relative importance of the closure of consideration is underpinned by guidelines given by Infrabel to each road: one for accidents and one for risks. Considering the annual reports accompanying the Plan, it appears that these safety and associated risk analysis indicators for the previously abolished consideration are very positive in more than half of the cases. According to Infrabel's figures, much of the consideration that has been abolished so far was even safer than average. The abolition of low-indicator consideration contributes only to a small extent to improving safety. As abolitions of consideration lead to a concentration of traffic flows at other locations, safety risks in traffic in general may increase. If Infrabel closes the non-risky consideration purely to reach a target, I think the plan will miss its target. On the contrary, we are more hampered by diversions, nuisances for residents, additional burdens for municipal authorities and mobility costs in general. In addition, the works cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u50	Do you recognise that much of the abolished consideration involved a small to very low security risk, as indicated in the Plan Considering? Do you recognise that the abolition of some of these considerations has not led to an improvement in overall safety when you take into account the concentration of traffic flows on other roads and consider it? Do you think that a safety improvement plan should address the most risky or the least risky consideration? Do you think that scarce resources are best invested in considering the most crowded traffic and the most obstacles to mobility? Do you consider the 2008-2015 Plan to be proportionate and effective? In the next management contract, will you again prescribe a plan for the abolition of consideration? If so, are you prepared to lay down other conditions in the management contract in order to avoid repeating the errors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u51	By definition, each route presents a risk of accidents which may be low or high according to certain track parameters, road parameters and environmental parameters. The fact that accidents have not yet occurred on a given route does not mean that the risk is non-existent. The abolition of consideration is always aimed at improving safety on our network in general. The abolition of a crossing is always preceded by a mobility study carried out by a study firm. This mobility study offers the possibility of re-signing road traffic across the territory of the municipality, thus avoiding distraction of road traffic to another route. In order to improve safety in the consideration, Infrabel launched the Interface Railway plan in 2015, which provides for the development over several years of a statistical model, allowing for the determination of the potential risk of accidents for each public road using a large number of railway and environmental parameters. High risk of accidents which are difficult to consider for abolition will be considered as a priority when introducing technical measures contributing to increased safety. The budget for safety improvement measures will be used as a priority to consider the high potential risk of accidents. The future statistical model will take into account parameters related to traffic congestion and the risk of congestion of vehicles downstream of the road. Since 2008, infrastructure interventions and awareness-raising measures by Infrabel to improve safety have made it possible to achieve the objectives agreed in the management contract on accidents and consequences of accidents. It goes without saying that the continuation of the programme to abolish the consideration remains an objective of the next management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u52	Madam Minister, security remains an absolute priority, but resources are scarce. We need to think carefully about the investment: only in places where it is absolutely necessary. Therefore, it cannot be envisaged to close those which are low-risk, merely in order to reach the target. It is good to hear that in view of the next management contract you will amend the plan and hopefully abolish the most risky transitions, which will really improve rail safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u53	Minister, in an interview with De Standaard before the summer recess on 14 July, about your modernisation plan for the railway companies, you indicated that there may be no budget to carry out the further renovation and modernisation of Hasselt's station environment. In the 2013-2025 multi-annual investment plan, EUR 42 million was made available for a completely new station building. The current building dates back to 1962 and would be demolished. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that in the new investment plan no budget will be made available for the renovation of the Hasselt station? Megalomane station projects are a thing of the past. Nevertheless, the Hasselt station is in need of renewal, including in order to improve safety and accessibility. For example, different platforms are not accessible for disabled people today. Will resources be made available for this? Hasselt Stationsenvironment NV was established in 2003 in order to rebuild the station environment in Hasselt. What activities does this company carry out today? Who are the current drivers? Which buildings does Hasselt Stations environment still own today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u54	Mr Raskin, the multiannual investment plan is currently under review (...) ...in particular are also a focus of attention in the new multi-annual investment plan. Hasselt Stationsenvironment NV was established in the framework of an agreement in which SNCB was a party at the time. The social purpose of the company consists of the realization of the developments in the Hasselt station environment. There are no buildings owned by HSO. The successor to the right was first the SNCB-Holding and then the SNCB. The composition of the Management Board is set out in Annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will join you in replying to my next questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u56	Madam Minister, a punctuality report by Infrabel and SNCB on the Noordoost district shows that overall punctuality in the district has increased compared to last year. This is good news in order to achieve a punctuality of 90 % by 2019. However, there is also less good news. Hasselt station scores less than busy stations such as Antwerpen-Central, Mechelen and Leuven with 90 % of punctual trains. According to SNCB, the cause is the poor punctuality of lines 36 and 21. My questions are as follows. Is SNCB's claim true? Are there any other reasons for the lower score of the station in Hasselt compared to other stations in the Noordoost district? How do you want to improve punctuality on lines 36 and 21? What specific measures do you intend to take? By when will these be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u57	Since the main transport flows to and from Hasselt take place via lines 21 and 36, the impact of punctuality on these lines is to a large extent decisive for the punctuality measured at Hasselt station. There are no other significant causes that have a significant impact on this figure. The punctuality on the lines 36, Brussels/Leuven/Liège, and 21, Countries/Sint-Truiden/Hasselt, is not bad. There is a global punctuality action plan, which is fully implemented and which should ultimately also have a beneficial effect on the punctuality of the trains upon arrival in Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u58	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have one more question about Hasselt, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u59	Madam Minister, in July, Het Belang van Limburg reported that the banks were removed from Hasselt station. SNCB decided to take this measure to prevent people from hanging around the station. Safety at Hasselt station has been the subject of discussion for some time now. Despite increased checks by local police, problems remain nearby. Especially evenings and nights leave the safety to be desired. According to a newspaper saleswoman, drug dealers hang out all the time. Madam Secretary, I have four questions. SNCB would have removed the banks from the station without prior consultation with the city administration. Is this true? Why wasn't the city council consulted? Secondly, the station and the station district have been experiencing problems of nuisance for some time now. The Railway Police and Securail do not seem to be able to overcome this nuisance. How does SNCB intend to tackle the problem? Does SNCB intend to deploy additional security personnel? Will surveillance be provided at night? Thirdly, how is cooperation between the railway police and Securail, on the one hand, and the Hasselt local police, on the other? Can this cooperation be strengthened in order to combat the nuisance more effectively? Finally, in your reply to an earlier oral question, you indicated that a partnership was signed called "Station 2020'. Has that project been evaluated yet? If not, when is the evaluation scheduled? What concrete measures has already been decided by the three working groups set up under the project? What results has this produced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u60	In early 2013, the project "Station 2020" was launched, a partnership between the city of Hasselt, the local police area HAZODI, the federal police, the province of Limburg, De Lijn and the Corporate Security Services of SNCB. An action plan was drawn up to optimise safety. The security issue calls for an integrated and integrated approach to be defined and implemented in consultation with all the partners involved. In a first phase from February to April 2015, measures were taken, such as moving the yellow timetable signs in the waiting room, increased surveillance via cameras and an additional city camera visualizing the station square. On the basis of a site visit on 22 April 2015 in the presence of Mayor Hilde Claes, additional measures were taken, including a better cleaning of the station environment. The lighting in the station neighborhood remains sufficient. As the insecurity issue continued, on 30 June 2015, after consultation with all partners, the banks and seats in the waiting room and in front of the station were removed. The project group also asked the city administration to introduce an alcohol ban in the station district. The local partnership between the police, the security services and the community guards ensures a permanent presence and/or intervention in and around the station. The presence of Securail is permanent between 6h 00 and 22h 00 and can be extended at regular intervals. In the months of April to June 2015 and in September 2015, the VOC action "Security Surroundings Station "Station 2020' was organised, with the Railway Police, the local police HAZODI, Securail and the community guards working intensively together. With regard to the security issue in Hasselt, it was decided to ensure the follow-up of the project group led by Mrs Hilde Reynders, coordinator of Integral Security of the city of Hasselt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for the three answers. You can change your mind today. To date my province has been systematically underwhelmed in terms of rail investment in the broad sense of the word. Moreover, when allocated investments had to be deleted for any reason, Limburg was always at the top of the list. There are objective figures available on this. You may know them, too. These are less punctual trains, a lack of safety and an obsolete station, which does not comply with what is meant by "good service'. Hasselt has an important role to play as a hub in combi mobility, which is an ambition for all of us in the future. Madam Minister, I am not asking for Calatrava architecture with glass domes or expensive mosaics, but rather for a modern junction station which has ample parking facilities, which is modern and safe and accessible. You, like me, will have frowned the eyebrows when the mayor of Hasselt reacted quite strongly to the doubts you raised about the new station building in Hasselt. After all, the mayor of Hasselt is someone who, especially in Limburg, is associated with the socialist 'can't' on-to-mentality of the past. Let this attitude have caused today's budgetary situation. However, Madam Minister, you can also assume from me that the renovation and safety of the Hasselt railway station district must be tackled urgently. I hope you don't forget that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u62	Madam Secretary, I have asked a question about the number of accidents in consideration. Unfortunately, these questions come on the agenda whenever there has been a fatal or unfortunate accident. In my neighboring town of Berlare, another fatal accident took place recently, despite all the actions that Infrabel has taken in recent years to counter this. In a previous fatal accident, including in Berlare, I had asked for additional signs to be placed on the parallel roads. It's been placed in the meantime. However, we can see that accidents are still happening. The railway action plan 2008-2015 has already been mentioned here. Two hundred considerations should have been abolished. An earlier reply showed that 119 of these were considered, due to a lack of budgetary resources. In addition, sensitisation is also very important. In the context of sensitisation, I have found an image that I will forward to you. On a panel, a train with shark teeth was depicted, including the text: "Beware of the train'. That sign was made by kids themselves. This is an example from the Netherlands, in which the local community is tried to be involved. This problem also arises in the Netherlands and other countries. A good suggestion would be for Infrabel to consider how to involve school communities in the awareness raising process. How many accidents were considered in 2014 and 2015? How many accidents had a fatal outcome? The action plan ends at the end of this year. The multi-annual investment plan provided for 312 million euros. What amount will be provided for now? What about the 79 unrealized consideration? The plan also provides for a new prototype of assigned technology. What's the status? What is the follow-up to this plan on considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u63	Madam President, Mr Geerts, a total of 47 accidents occurred in 2014, resulting in 11 deaths. For the first six months of 2015, a total of 22 accidents were recorded on a public road, private road or road crossing in a port area, with three fatalities. In the first two years of the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025, 25 considerations were abolished. An inventory will be prepared in spring 2016, including the year 2015. Depending on the resources available, further consideration will be given to abolition. The homologation is ongoing, but is slower than expected. The initial rolling-out planning of the reflections is expected to shift to 2017. In 2015, Infrabel launched the Interface Railway plan, which includes certain technical measurements applicable to the consideration of which abolition is not foreseen or difficult to implement. Safety must remain a top priority in the new multi-annual investment plan. To this end, the necessary instructions will be given to the investment cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We can only regret the shift to 2017. It is not just a question of investment, because most accidents occur on well-equipped consideration. The signal was changed and parallel investments were made. However, I think that projects should be launched and I will make that suggestion to you in order to certainly increase the level of support in local school communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u65	Minister, a consultation committee was held on September 16 between the federal government and the Regions. It had to deal with the nuisances associated with the overflight of Brussels. Today, we read in the press that there has been no agreement on a comprehensive and lasting solution. A working group would therefore be set up. As far as the aircraft allowed to fly over Brussels are concerned, your office would have explained that only the most discreet aircraft are sent to the canal road. The loudest planes must take the ring road. In a recent interview published in Brussels Metropole 2015 in Brussels, you reaffirmed "working on a plan with structural measures and the establishment of an independent authority to stabilize the situation and give a clear framework to all parties concerned". You also say that "this subject (sound nuisances) is constantly at the heart of the debate, leads to unnecessary tension because it is counterproductive". Therefore, minister, can you please let me know if you are in a position to make available to Members the new list of aircraft authorized to cross the Brussels Region, carried out according to the registration criterion, which was endorsed by NOTAM (Notice to Airman) on June 19th? How do you intend to remove the obstacles to reaching an agreement on a comprehensive, lasting and structural solution to the problem of air pollution? What is the working group's schedule? What will be its composition? Can you define its objectives? What reasonable time have you set for the conclusion of an agreement? What is the status of the establishment of the independent supervisory body? What about the consultation with the mayors of the communes of the Brussels Region? How is it organised?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u66	Minister, on July 1st, I was asking you about your decision of June 19th to change the list of aircraft that could take the canal route according to their sound load (QC). This decision will increase the number of flights over the Brussels Canal. Yet it is a densely populated area that should be avoided as much as possible. It is therefore particularly appealing to learn of an intensification of the overflight of this area of Brussels. The Brussels Region had also introduced a conflict-of-interest procedure on 17 July to protect the Brussels people from an increase in noise pollution. The conflict-of-interest procedure led this file to the consultation committee table on 16 September. So what was the position of the federated entities expressed at the Consultation Committee on 16 September? What position did you defend on behalf of the federal government? What are the expected consequences of your decision in terms of the number of flights (what percentage increase) and the number of people flying over the canal road and the ring road?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u67	Mrs Caprasse, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the conciliation meeting dealt only with conflict of interest. I would also like to say that I deeply regret that the debate cannot be organised more calmly. I hope that we will achieve this, given the contacts that have been made. I recalled the objectivation of my measure on 19 June. I repeat, this instruction was intended to optimize the existing regulations and the 2003 agreements concerning compliance with the QC (quota count) of noise per aircraft equal to or less than 4 on the canal route. As I have said on several occasions, this quota count is linked to the registration of the apparatus, thus allowing it to be complied with at 100%. This list has been available on the website of BATC (Brussels Airport Traffic Control) since 23 September. The consequences are known: there will be a maximum of four to six flights per night on the canal road, four nights a week. I would point out, however, that the moratorium has considerably reduced the frequency of use of this road. Indeed, all day flights have been eliminated, except on the weekend since 2 April. As you know, unfortunately this dossier has never been based on objective elements, but that is what I have been working on since I took office. I will take structural measures, such as the establishment of the independent supervisory body by sticking scrupulously to the government agreement and involving all regions. However, I do not wish to lock myself in a timing. Also, I am well aware that the deadline of June 13th is well known to me. Finally, Mrs Caprasse, you know well, since I met you in your commune – just as I met the mayor of Brussels – that I visited all the mayors of the Brussels and peripheral communes, in accordance with my desire to listen to local representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u68	Minister, I would like to listen to you, because I know that you are involved in finding a solution. In the meantime, the aircraft continue to fly over Brussels. I can tell you that I'm a little tired, because we've been hearing them all the time in Crainhem for forty-eight hours. The problem is therefore serious. We really rely on you to find a solution between all the federated entities, but the problem has persisted for so long that we look forward to it. We will, in any case, be attentive to the events, because we can no longer hold on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u69	Minister, I did not understand very well whether the conflict between the Brussels Region and the federal state was over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u70	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u71	I didn't get it. The dialogue therefore resumes. It was the best solution because, in the conflict, it is difficult to solve problems. I repeat, four to six flights at 4:00 p.m., 5:00 p.m. and, moreover, extremely noisy, it is very difficult for citizens. On the weekend, these flights landed above the canal road. Small people who have not mobilized much but are still important are concerned and need to be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u72	Minister, the moratorium has come into force. However, the press reports that there are more and more complaints that aircraft would not comply with published air routes. In order to respond to growing concerns, you have announced, also in the press, sanctions against airlines that do not respect flight trajectories. Minister, how many complaints have been registered since the moratorium came into effect and what are the main elements reported by residents? Has your administration found violations, issued minutes and imposed sanctions for non-compliance with trajectories, as implemented since the moratorium? Finally, how many agents are employed by your administration to find that airlines are not complying with flight procedures at Brussels Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u73	Madam President, from April 2, 2015 to September 20, 2015, we have 53,000 complaints only on the form and on the basis of the complaint numbers assigned. Our mediation services are currently working on an inventory of the various elements that make up the complaints. Since the beginning of 2015, 17 minutes have been drawn up by DGTA at Brussels-National Airport. They concerned airport slots and quota count. These minutes were forwarded to the King's prosecutor. Note also that since the moratorium, the DGTA has not produced minutes for non-compliance with trajectories, but the work is underway to make the procedure more optimal. The Environment Department consists of a head of department, a lawyer and an aviation inspector competent to initiate legal proceedings before the King's prosecutor with penalties at the key. Finally, I would like to point out that the moratorium is being respected. The objective situation existing before 6 February 2014 has been restored identically. In view of the cumbersome procedures before the Court of Justice, we want to give priority to administrative fines, which are much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u74	Madam Minister, thank you. As a result of the complaints and your communication in this regard, I understood that the trajectories were not being followed. However, it would appear that the DGTA has not produced any minutes for non-compliance with the trajectory. Three people, including a lawyer, to carry out this check, it seems to me very little in the light of your statements and the complaints, even if I imagine that it is not the lawyer or the inspector who observe the sky but that it is done by satellite or by means of screens. As far as administrative fines are concerned, I would like to join you in order to avoid having to go before the Brussels justice system, which has a substantial backlog, but we must put the means into it. If there is a moratorium and defined trajectories, this would at least alleviate the fact that these trajectories are being followed and there are no kilometres between planned and aircraft routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u75	Madam President, Minister, the current pricing of SNCB is very complex and unreadable. Indeed, between the different types of tickets, cards and passes, subscriptions, MOBIB card, specificities for cross-border journeys, tourist formulas, etc. It must be agreed that the unaccustomed passenger of train journeys has difficulty finding himself there. A visit to the Belgianrail.be website clearly highlights the complexity of SNCB's tariff offer. A new management contract is expected in the coming months. With this new management plan, would it not be appropriate to completely reform the pricing system, make it simpler, user-friendly and, above all, clearer? Minister, are you considering a comprehensive reform of pricing for the next management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u76	Mrs Poncelet, I sometimes feel like you don't hear what I'm saying. I have indeed repeated several times that there were 200 pages of pricing and that they were totally illegible. I have also indicated that the subject will be addressed in the negotiation of the new management contract. It will set out the benchmarks for the actions that SNCB can take. The adaptations that will be considered will have to focus on simplifying and modernising the tariff offer whose extreme complexity has not escaped you since you are talking about the site. Personally, I refer to 200 pages. The new tariff policy will give SNCB a new impetus to encourage potential customers to take the train for their journeys through the most attractive formulas possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you. I didn't hear your answers live. You probably already said that. I am pleased that you have this concern for tariff simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u78	Madam Minister, questions have been asked here on several occasions about the ombud service for rail passengers, also under the previous legislature. Since March 2013, the railway passenger ombud service is no longer allowed to deal with complaints of irregularities. This is mainly about passengers who are found on the train without a valid ticket. SNCB and the railway passenger ombud service interpret the law governing the powers of the ombud service in a different way. The legal service of SNCB has a different view on this than the ombuds service itself. That ombudsperson considers that it is competent under the law to deal with complaints of irregularities. Your predecessor said in committee of 8 January 2014 that Article 11 of the 2010 Law on various provisions does not exclude the intervention of the ombudsmen in the event of infringements and accidents. In the committee of 11 November 2014, you promised that a solution would be worked out, defending the interests of the disadvantaged travellers and avoiding costly procedures resulting from abuse by a small group of fraudsters. It is urgent to clarify the matter. For example, in the case of temporarily defective vending machines, passengers who wish to buy a ticket but cannot do so will in some cases receive a C170 form for the determination of driving without a valid ticket. They cannot go to the ombud service for this. The government agreement also states that maximum use will be made of the promotion of alternative means of dispute resolution, such as mediation, to relieve the burden on the courts. That, too, could be an argument to allow for a dispute settlement at the ombudsdienst. If I am not mistaken, you have replied to previous questions that you would ask the FPS for legal advice on this matter, which should lead to a solution for the ombuds service and SNCB. Madam Secretary, have you been with the parties involved? Is there a solution to this? If so, what does it mean? In the newspaper we read that a new system of fines would be introduced at SNCB, with administrative fines. The ombud service would have the authority to do so. What is your position on the competence of the ombud service in the event of irregularities? What is the position of the FPS Mobility, which would issue a legal opinion on the competence of the ombud service in the event of irregularities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u79	Madam Minister, Mr Van den Bergh gave an excellent introduction. You and your predecessors have always stressed in our committee that the law of 28 April 2010 is in full force and that the ombudsmen are indeed authorised to mediate. I believe that is a good principle. SNCB cannot be a judge and a party at the same time. In a previous question, I expressed my doubts about the procedure under Form C170. 35 435 procedures would have been initiated for forgotten subscriptions, for which a form C170 was drawn up each time. So there is definitely a problem. Mediation must be possible, of course. It is therefore curious that SNCB's legal service still ignores the Law of 28 April 2010. Why do people not comply with the law of 28 April 2010? How many people have called on the ombud service due to disputes over the on-board fare and were sent walking? You started a mediation between SNCB and the ombud service. What was the result? What is your view on the competence of the ombud service in this matter? What is your view on the specific case in which individuals have received a C170 form, in which independent mediation is not possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u80	My policy cell has held several consultations with the ombud service for rail passengers and with SNCB. On that basis and taking into account the legal advice of the FPS Mobility and Transport on the competence of the ombuds service under the law of 28 April 2010 laying down various provisions, to read together with the law of 21 March 1991, I took a clear position and expressed a clear position, namely in my letter of 26 August 2010 to Mr Cornu. In summary, my position is that complaints from travellers regarding the detection of irregularities during the train journey are indeed eligible for mediation by the ombudsperson, with the application of Articles 11 and 13 of the Law of 28 April 2010 laying down various provisions. Following on from my letter, it has been proposed that the moment should be determined when the ombud service will act within the management process of such files. My cabinet, together with SNCB and the ombudsperson, is examining the possibility of extending the debate to administrative sanctions. Mr Geerts asked how many people have called on the ombuds service in connection with on-board tariff disputes. The ombudsdienst has received and handled 171 complaints up to today since the introduction of the on-board fare. Those persons were not sent for walks, because SNCB recognises the right of the ombudsmen to mediate about complaints in the matter. It is also necessary to reiterate that SNCB's customer service is responsible for the first-line handling of those complaints, with the task of finding a solution that can satisfy the customer and society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I hope that this will solve a long-term problem in the short term. The attitude of SNCB towards the 2010 law, which leaves little to interpretation, is regrettable. In any case, it would be a bad signal if SNCB felt above that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As my colleague points out, it is important that you repeat the interpretation of Articles 11 and 13 of the 2010 Act. Let's hope the dispute is over with that. When drawing up a project with administrative sanctions, you will have to ensure that SNCB does not become a judge and party in the same file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u83	Madam Minister, last week in Het Nieuwsblad we read that pesticide use in Flanders is no longer falling. The reason for this should not be found in cities and municipalities, since they reduced their use by 15%. That the declining trend is not continued is due to Infrabel's weed train. That train sprayed nearly a thousand kilograms more pesticides into the air last year than the year before. In May, I questioned you about this weed train. At that time, you mentioned that Infrabel has obtained a derogation from the ban on pesticides for public authorities. Infrabel defends itself by arguing that the railway company is increasingly using products that are less harmful to people and the environment. Is this right? Which pesticides are used by the weed train? What pesticides did Infrabel use in recent years? What pesticides did Infrabel use before the weed train was deployed? How many grams of the workable fabric does each litre of spray contain? How has this evolved in recent years? According to Infrabel, the increase in pesticide levels would be due to the increased plant growth along the railway. However, this stronger plant growth is also a problem facing the Flemish cities and municipalities. However, they manage to reduce their use of pesticides. Why doesn't Infrabel succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u84	In 2014, the following products were used by the weed train: Panic, Zapper, Genoxone and Chikara. In 2013, the product Genoxone was preferred, a selective leaf herbicide with a lower environmental impact. The impact of the herbicides used is monitored by Infrabel through a parameter that determines the persistence in the environment, based on the type of product, quantity and ecotoxicity. This parameter has been declining since 2008. The pesticides used in the past are listed in the Annex. Bofix and Clinic were also used. The weed train has been used by Infrabel for decades. In 2008, that train was equipped with camera detection, which allows targeted treatment of the vegetation present. The characteristics of the products used are set out in the Annex. The evolution is monitored through the SEQ-Equation equivalent parameter. The increased quantities of pesticides are due to the additional surfaces, and thus additional vegetation, which were treated, compared to 2013. After all, the surface areas that are treated are not fixed. They are irrigated through the camera detection. In addition, the weather conditions determine the effective treatment, so that certain surfaces were treated or not in the first and second spray campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I know that rail safety is quite rightly the main argument for continuing to use these pesticides. Nevertheless, I think it is my duty to remain very critical, knowing the consequences of chemical weed killers for humans and the environment. I would therefore ask you to consult with nature associations, the health sector and other stakeholders. If my information is correct, there would have been a working party in the past that died a silent death. Perhaps this is the time to bring that working group back together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u86	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the use of renewable energy and energy-efficient materials. Today there are the Desiro train sets, which should in se be used on short connections because they recover electricity when they stop. In particular, 20 to 30 percent of the energy would be recovered. Other heavier trains, such as the M6 and the MS75, the so-called pig noses, use a lot of energy. If they have to stop and raise frequently, this will of course lead to additional costs. However, we note that these train sets are used on L-lines and that therefore material is used that is not suitable for that type of journey. The correct use of materials can save a lot of energy and can therefore also save a lot of costs. Of course, that's better for regularity as well. That goes without saying. I have the following questions. Is it true that Desiro trains generate energy during braking? What is the difference in electricity consumption between, for example, the deployment of an MS75 and a Desiro train on an L-line like Antwerp-Boom? By correctly deploying the equipment, a lot of energy can be saved. Is this taken into account when using material on train connections? Is there a general sustainable purchasing policy that takes these alternatives into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u87	SNCB informs that when Desiro trains brake part of the braking power is converted into electric energy. This part is injected back into the net. On a line where every 2.2 km stops, as in the case of the GEN operation, the difference in electricity consumption can reach 30%. When the stops are further apart, the difference decreases to 10% of the total energy consumed. In addition, there are other factors that need to be taken into account, such as distance from stations. Technical requirements for braking and maximum voltage in the overhead contact line shall also be taken into account. These are elements that limit the actually recovered energy to sometimes much lower values than the potential. On short-distance connections and with many stops, SNCB mainly uses motor sets. These motor sets also allow easier adaptation of the composition to the number of passengers. This also plays a major role in energy consumption. For all purchases of new rolling stock, SNCB requires systems where electrical energy is recovered during braking and, in addition, SNCB requires that this energy recovery mechanism be used as a priority, each time brake is applied. The current load books of the equipment require an electrodynamic brake, an efficiency of the traction chain, LED lighting for passenger spaces, for heating, ventilation and air conditioning as low as possible K-value of the vehicles as well as a limitation of the sun exposure of the windows and the automatic closing of the interior doors and exterior doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u88	Madam Secretary, my analysis was correct. It is important that energy recovery is also taken into account when materials are used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u89	Questions Nos 6320 and 6322 by Mr. Marco Van Hees were postponed. Questions Nos 6341 and 6342 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions, as is Question No 6363 by Mrs Barbara Pas. Mr Delizée will add his question No 6387 to his question No 6365. Questions Nos 6382 and 6383 by Mrs Gwennaëlle Grovonius are postponed, as well as questions by Mr Laurent Devin (Nos 6422, 6460, 6471 and 6472).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u90	Minister, SNCB has just communicated on the future Brussels suburban offer. While we can welcome the provision of a map integrating all the structural networks in Brussels and its periphery, as well as the creation of a specific logo and signage, this must not distract us from the sad reality. Beyond the obvious lack of consultation with the Brussels Region, we must note that the SNCB is finally making nothing more than relatively cosmetic proposals. The supply that is likely to be offered to users will not be characterized by significant qualitative progress, in particular in terms of increasing frequencies. It is therefore essentially a cosmetic packaging, at the risk of seeing the expectations of the users again disappointed. A map, however integrated, cannot hide the Arlesian represented by the commissioning of this RER, which is more and more like a chimera. This is obviously not just your responsibility. Minister, can you give us the exact date of the start-up of the S network? Can you tell us exactly what offer will be available? Is the consultation on the 2017 transport plan still relevant? Are there room for manoeuvre to increase transport supply? I recall the Brussels objective of having four trains per hour in rush hours, two trains per hour in off-peak hours, in thirty Brussels stations. It was the plan as it had been realized. As we talked about Antwerp, we hoped that Brussels would not be forgotten. Can you commit to meeting the frequency targets of the RSP (S network) and funding its operating deficit for 2017? What about the priorities of the Brussels government, particularly with regard to the creation of six new stops? The project of stopover in Verboeckhoven is intended to become a strong intermodal pole with the extension of the Brussels metro.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u91	Madam, as I was able to announce, several months ago, given the government agreement, the S offer, for suburban offers, will be launched on December 13, 2015 with the coming into force of the new seasonal offer. This is an important moment for the Belgian railways as well as for all current and future SNCB customers. Compared to SNCB's current general offer, offer S provides for the reopening of the Pannenhuis station, called Tour & Taxis, the opening of the Germoir station and the new Schuman intermodal station. Thanks to the commissioning of the new Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, new relations link the poles coming from Leuven, Mechelen, Nivelles, Braine-l'Alleud to the European quarter. Here are some concrete examples of improving the quality of the suburban rail offer, now called S: Hal, Uccle, Ixelles, Etterbeek, Brussels City, Evere, Schaerbeek and Vilvorde will be connected three times an hour. In terms of journey time, for example, a 17-minute gain on the route from Leuven to Schuman will be made possible. For the 2017 transport plan, consultations are planned with regional transport companies and regional authorities within the framework of the intermodality platform. In addition, I asked SNCB to make every effort to increase the suburban supply by December 2017. SNCB also states that a frequency of four trains per hour during peak periods is only possible with infrastructure enabling it and only with a revision of the infrastructure costs as referred to in the government agreement. Offer S is part of SNCB's transportation plan. The increase in supply in the coming years is part of the objectives along with fiscal consolidation. I will ask SNCB to make balanced proposals. At this stage, SNCB is not in a policy of building new stations, but in the operation of stops whose infrastructure already exists. Thus, the stops of Germoir and Tour & Taxis will be open to the commercial service from this month of December, but do not require the construction of infrastructures. The same applies to the stopover of Arcades, which will be served at the end of the works of the triangle of Etterbeek. At the six priority stations of the Brussels government, the future stop at Anderlecht Ceria meets these criteria and will therefore be put into service at the end of the four-lane work on line 50A between Ghent and Brussels. For the other five stations, new infrastructure is needed to enable them to be served. These proposals may be considered by the Investment Unit. More detailed studies with STIB, on the one hand, and Infrabel, on the other hand, must be organised to assess the extent to which this stop still meets its objective of intermodality on the North metro. It is necessary to define the price of this relatively heavy work and the consequences on the traffic capacity between Brussels-North and Brussels-Schuman. With the opening of the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, East relations from Etterbeek, Brussels-Luxembourg, allow many potential connections on the future North-South metro both in Bordet and in Brussels-Nord.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers. I live next to Tour & Taxis. There's a subway over there. The Flemish administration will settle there. In any case, I will not take the train, since it will pass once in an hour. This is not a real offer, especially as the metro travels nearby. Maybe it will be for the civil servants who come to work in the neighborhood. When we read in a government statement and in the report of the board of directors that, for other RSPs, solutions are found to address the operating deficit, to build stations and to plan new stops, and when we know that the RSP has been promised to us for a quarter of a century, you will understand that this is beginning to weigh – and not just on the Brussels people. I would remind you that it must be used to bring the Walloon and Flemish commuters to Brussels, in addition to relieving those who are unable to breathe in this capital. I hope that this issue will be a government priority. Increasing the supply while seeking fiscal consolidation seems incomprehensible to me. In addition, there is a problem in terms of rolling stock to guarantee this suburban offer. I hope that, after 13 December, changes will take place. That remains to be seen. In any case, I think the Brussels people will not be satisfied with this offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Geerts has converted 6317 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u94	Madam Chair, Minister, I wanted to ask you this question last week, but it was postponed because of a Board of Directors of the SNCB meeting last Friday. We'll see if you can bring me new things, but I doubt it. The management contract of SNCB for the period 2008-2012, and subsequently extended, provided in Article 13 for the valuation of historical railway equipment. The purpose of the project was to ensure the preservation of the historical heritage that contributes to the enhancement and promotion of the image of the railways. This management contract makes explicit reference to a board of directors of the holding company of 25 April 2008, which is responsible in particular for the following tasks: to use the opportunities offered by the Schaerbeek-Voyageurs station site – that is done – as well as the possibilities of complementarity offered by the potential of the Ostend station site, currently being renovated, and the collaborations with the railway tourist associations and in particular the Association of Railways in Vapor of the Three Valleys. Since then, the Train World has opened its doors to the public and it is a historic event! Finally, our country has a national museum on train and rail. Our neighbouring countries have done so for many decades. Paradoxically, on 4 May 2015, the SNCB management committee decided to reconsider a commitment it had made to provide an amount to invest in the extension of the Treignes steam railway museum. This decision was taken on 22 April 2009 and confirmed on several occasions by Mr Jean-Claude Fontinoy, then president of the holding company and now president of SNCB. So it's a pretty incomprehensible turnaround. It is a unilateral breach of a written and repeated commitment to invest a sum of EUR 500 000 excluding VAT, representing 40% of the total amount of this project of construction of a complementary infrastructure in partnership with the Walloon Region and an ASBL of management of this museum of the steam railway in Treignes. That is to say, it's an investment. It is not an operating expense, amortized over twenty years. It is true that this is not a very large sum compared to the sums invested in the Train World in Schaerbeek. Madam Minister, I first wonder in terms of the legality of such a disengagement. What is your view as the appropriate minister on the legality of this disengagement? Co-financing is being advanced; work is being done; obligations are being created for the other parties. Therefore, the other two parties are harmed. The realization of the project is called into question. In addition, the Walloon Region, by the Office of the Commissioner of Tourism, has already made expenditures, education costs in this project. From my point of view, that is not acceptable. Minister, do you confirm the SNCB's willingness to no longer co-finance the expansion of the Treignes Steam Rail Museum? What about the last board of directors in this area? Let me remind you that my question has been postponed to hear this decision. What are the reasons for this decision? What is your position as the minister responsible for this unilateral challenge to co-financing the extension of this museum to Treignes? Has the management contract been amended or is it still planning to be implemented and the developments at Ostend and the development at Treignes? Is there a formal amendment to the management contract? Otherwise, SNCB no longer complies with this management contract. What is your opinion on the matter? More generally, what is your vision for the conservation of historic railway heritage in our country? How do you possibly want to reorient this policy? Finally, I asked for your support to request a consultation meeting of all parties because the method without dialogue, without prior information or a posteriori, but with a simple letter to inform that everything is being called into question, seems to me cavalier in terms of principles. As far as Ostend is concerned, my question is simple. All expectations are the same since we work in the same framework. Do you confirm SNCB's willingness to remove the planned investments at Ostend station, which is being renovated due to its old age and its outdated and unattractive character? What was the initial allocation for Ostend station and what was their importance? This station is now being covered, so I imagine that some paths would be devoted to the creation of a museum space. How will the material be valued? Indeed, more than two hundred important parts – large locomotives and others – are distributed and other equipment is planned. Has the amendment been amended in the management contract in respect of Ostend? If this renovation is not carried out, how will this heritage be valued? It is a pity that the partnership with the regions and communities that were in place is probably being undermined. In conclusion, there was really an opportunity to value the whole of this very important heritage. Our country has been a pioneer in the construction of railway equipment, including locomotives. There was really an opportunity to make a circuit for the Belgian public, but also the English public and other audiences passionate about the history of the railways. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u95	Mr President, Mr Delizée, this objective, like many others, will be examined in the context of the future management contract. But at this stage, in the current management contract, there is more of a question of complementarity. There is no commitment in this text by SNCB to co-finance the extension of the Treignes Museum. The concentration of SNCB's historical heritage resources on the Schaerbeek site alone makes it possible to expose the historical material in the best conditions in the past. In addition, SNCB has always indicated that it will only agree to engage in this project under conditions. It asked the CFV3V to meet its commitments: a firm commitment by a partner to co-finance this project to the tune of 60% and a full dossier was presented to SNCB. These conditions have never been met. In particular, the European ERDF Fund has not responded positively to the request for funding for this project. In this context, following the decision of the SNCB Board of Directors on 25 September, I confirm the decision of the railways not to co-finance the extension of the Treignes Museum. The reasons for this decision are the absence of a strong commitment from a lead partner to co-finance this project to the tune of 60% and an uncompleted technical and financial dossier. The other parties have either been understanding SNCB or have already redirected funds to other priorities well before SNCB's decision of 4 May 2015. An amendment to Article 13 was not adopted. SNCB has complied well with the provisions of the management contract which do not specify anywhere the co-financing of the extension of the museum of Treignes. You're talking about the recent opening of the Train Museum. Like any museum, SNCB wants to concentrate its reserve collections in one place that should ideally be located near Train World. In addition, SNCB has signed agreements with the five railway tourism associations through which it has lent over the long term and offered these ASBL half of its historical collection of rolling stock. As stated in particular in the management contract, these are: - the conservation and enhancement of the historical heritage by a team of railway historians and scientists specialized in this field, - the public presentation of the best of the collection at Train World, which has a team of professionals in charge of the commercial exploitation of this museum, - continued cooperation with the five tourism and rail associations which are placed on an equal footing, - the reactivation of the SNCB's historical routes on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the end of steam traction in Belgium in 1966, notably through the Train World site. Finally, according to SNCB, the head of the historical heritage contacted the president of CFV3V personally to inform him of the decision of the board of directors and of the official sending of the letter informing that SNCB was renouncing to co-finance the extension of the museum of Treignes, in particular for reasons of budgetary context. As regards investments in Ostend station, the SNCB management committee of 4 May decided not to make the necessary investments to carry out a museum antenna in own management at the Ostend station site. This decision was confirmed by the Management Committee of 21 September 2015 and the Board of Directors of 25 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u96	Thank you for giving me an answer. You understand that, from my point of view, it is not satisfactory. I can't agree with what you're saying. On the merits, I contest the merits of this decision. In any case, there was a written commitment from SNCB Holding to invest 500,000 euros in Treignes, i.e. 40% of the total amount. The other 60% were to be taken over by the Walloon Region. The discussions were in any case well advanced. You do not answer the question of legality. Can we take over a grant that has been granted and notified? This is a legal issue that will eventually be decided. It is up to the two parties concerned and who have suffered harm to decide. I think this is a step backwards in relation to our country's desire to finally value its historical heritage. You're saying you're going to concentrate it in one place. I don't understand. At the Train World, there are 22 large historic pieces, indeed very beautiful, well developed, I have no doubt, but the SNCB has nearly 200 pieces of this importance,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u97	I suggest you go to the Train World Museum. This is an investment of 25 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u98	That's very good. But the other parts will not be valued anywhere. I didn't understand where they'd be concentrated. You're saying they need to be concentrated in one place. Train World cannot contain more. All the rest of the equipment, because there are still other beautiful rooms that are not there, is in nature, in hangars not accessible to the public. This is a very important step backwards. I think you said it: "budgetary context". It's an accounting logic, nothing more. There is no vision or willingness to find a solution to value this heritage in the other two regions of the country. I'm sorry. It was a good example of partnership. A circuit between these three entities also had an economic interest. To the best of my knowledge, the board of directors did not really pronounce itself. I hear it's decided by the steering committee. I take note of that. But I contest the validity and legality of this decision. I think this is a mistake and our country is making a serious step backwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u99	In my opinion, you didn't listen to me. Part of the collection was loaned, while another was offered to non-profit organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u100	It has been distributed to non-profit organizations. Of course, if you don't build the museum to house this collection, it will remain open. To enhance these objects in good conditions, a covered place is necessary. I don't know where they're going or, therefore, if they're going to be highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u101	Madam Minister, I read in the newspaper that you instructed SNCB to draw up a plan to provide 80 percent of the stations with access and safety tracks, including to prevent black driving and increase safety. Apparently, these access tracks would be placed at the beginning of the train platforms and would also function as a metal detector. It seems to us that this plan in saving times is a very expensive joke and not very realistic. Also in the corridors of SNCB and in the responses we could read, the question was asked whether the government would provide additional funding where appropriate. Not only must the gates be installed effectively, but additional infrastructure must also be carried out. To what extent is the plan also consistent with the principle that the station should remain a meeting place? I assume that when you give that order, you also have a view on the cost. What's the cost of resting 80 percent of the stations with those gates? Which objects will no longer be allowed on the train when these metal detectors are placed? What is your response to SNCB's desire to obtain additional resources in the renewal of the management agreement in order to implement the plan? When these gates are placed, has there been any thought as to how things will be done when the train arrives on another platform? What is the impact on delays? What happens in case of abolished trains? Vandalism can also be possible. How many staff will have to be placed at the gates when the gates don't work? Already in metro stations there are quite often staff to find a solution for passengers at faulty gates. Are there any studies that show that there will be fewer black drivers? What happens to the function of train guide? Has it also been considered, in the context of security, to give Securail more powers, for example? I know you referred to a plan in Spain. In Spain, a number of stations are effectively equipped with such gates. However, the cost of the Spanish paid for this was greatly underestimated by the Spanish government. Madam Secretary, those were my specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u102	Madam Minister, I would like to join in Mr Geerts' question. It is the second time that the debate on the gates has emerged. You also announced it in your strategic vision. In that you stated that within five years there should be access routes in 80% of the stations. We hear all kinds of reactions to the proposal, which was repeated last week after your visit to the station in Madrid. On the one hand there are the reactions of train escorts, who like it. They welcome this project because it could mean something for safety and because it could prevent people from going to the train without a valid ticket. The aggression on the train could be reduced somewhat. On the other hand, there are also reactions within SNCB that say that further investment in the rail network can be forgotten in the coming years if we have to do so. After all, the project would have a particularly high cost. Madam Minister, we have a lot of questions about this idea. For example, where does that 80 percent come from? Which stations wouldn't get gates? What would be the cost per gate and per year in terms of maintenance? That, of course, must also be taken into account. You also mentioned the security detection. How is it integrated into such gates? Is it intended to place the gates at the entrance to the station or to the access to the platform? After all, that can mean something in terms of number of gates. Someone told me last week that they had looked at this for the station of Leuven. There, 49 gates would soon be needed to close all platforms without having to close the underpass. Well, that's a pretty quick thing to do. Will a traveler have to scan his ticket when leaving the station or platform? Will we work with the maps that we know today at the railways, such as the Go Pass, the Key Card and others? How much extra income do we think we can generate by combating black-driving? It costs something, but of course it can do something. How will passengers be able to take the train if the vending machines are defective? How will one stop tracks to avoid the gates? I fear it could be a distracted effect that people will try to reach the platform by rail to avoid the gates. People who really don't want to pay to take the train would dare to consider it, with all the risks it entails. Is this a first step towards a possible one-man operation? Do the costs of the gates then outweigh the savings due to the possible one-man operation? How will the safety of the traveller be guaranteed, for example in emergency situations? How can one guarantee the capacity of the gates at busy times? I understand that sometimes the ports at the airport station cannot cope with the capacity, which means that they must be opened to provide passage. Finally, who will be responsible for placing those gates, the SNCB or Infrabel? Have they drawn up a plan or made an estimate for the proposal you have launched?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u103	I have indeed asked SNCB to examine the feasibility of gates. This study will be carried out with the necessary benchmarking. The focus here is both on the impact on customers and on the financial impact. The feasibility study is currently under way and there is no point in going into detail on this. In addition, a risk analysis should clarify the extent to which security measures can be considered sufficient after the placement of gates. In the coming weeks, I will consult with the policy and security leaders of SNCB and of Infrabel on how to further study this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u104	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's hard to replicate that. Let us hope that the people of SNCB will read the report of this committee and take the questions raised here into account in the cost-benefit analysis of the investment for those gates. The benchmarking can only be welcomed, but the question remains what the motivation is to ask. I don't find that anywhere. I can imagine you going to Madrid and seeing something that you might like, but there has to be something more to give that order. There must have been some thought about it. That is exactly what I cannot derive from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u105	Mr President, I also do not want to be criticized for not doing anything. The Prime Minister reminded the United States yesterday: France and Belgium, together, have experienced either an attempt or an attack every month. While we do not want stations to become fully closed areas, new technologies allow us to address these security issues and combine payment and security. So Madrid had to react after an attack that caused hundreds of deaths and I can assure you that this system works very well and not only for international trains. We must not focus on international trains and international stations. Indeed, those with bad intentions will go on the poor lines of protection. We must take account of the evolution of society, which, alas, is not always moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u106	Madam Secretary, I find what you have just said more interesting in reply, because you provide a motivation. You are also talking about Madrid and Barcelona. I've been to those cities a few times myself. It is true that there are access tracks in some larger train stations. However, in the stations 100 kilometres away from Madrid or Barcelona, there are no signs of entry. We therefore base our criticism on that. To what extent is the use of access barriers really enforceable? On the other hand, you must act. Following the foiled attack on the Thalys, staff from Securail was moved to Brussels-South, and that seems to me right. Securail asked for additional resources, but this question was not answered. I think it would be logical to look at such questions in the short term, rather than talking about that 80%. I believe that there can be concrete action, and that does not have to cost so much money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u107	Madam Secretary, you said that the installation of access routes is currently being examined by the railway group. When can we expect the results of this study? Do you have a look at the timing, so we can evaluate whether that's interesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u108	The boss of Sécurail accompanied me on this mission to Madrid. He was therefore directly informed. Of course, this will happen after all the projects have been analysed by the investment unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u109	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 6478 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u110	Madam Minister, the internal audit of Eurostation and Euro Immo Star shows that SNCB's real estate subsidiaries have been generous sponsors of a number of sports clubs in Hasselt for years. In the period 2005 to 2014, a total amount of EUR 270 000 was paid to the Sporting Hasselt football club, the Hasselt Basketball team and the Hasselt sports promotion association. The audit raised major questions about sponsoring expenditure. For example, expenditure was not justified in any way or subjected to a cost-benefit analysis. There is also a disproportionate amount of sponsor money going to a city and a series of associations with a limited exposure. Madam Secretary, could you explain the three Hasselt sponsor files a little more? How did these deals come about? Who requested the sponsoring? When and how? If possible, can you get me the sponsorship contracts? Finally, the President of Sporting Hasselt would have sent a letter to Eurostation on 25 October 2013 requesting that the possibility of sponsoring be examined. The letter dates from three months after the date on which a sponsor agreement was already signed. That raises questions. It seems very unlikely that the chairman is not aware of sponsoring his club. What are your reservations about this? In recent years, a considerable amount of money has been sponsored. The beneficiaries of the sponsorship sometimes have little to do with mobility. For example, there would be sponsorship of an event organised by a local political party. What event are we talking about? In which city? From which political party? What was the cost of the event? What sponsor amount was paid? How was that motivated? Was there a contract drawn up? If yes, between which parties? What were the terms of the contract? What was the purpose of the agreement? How did the billing happen? What were the expected benefits? How does the control of the compensations take place? My next question concerns the sponsorship of a mayor's party. Which mayor are we talking about? When was this mayor's party organized? What was the cost of the party? What kind of sponsor was it about? How was it motivated? Was there a contract drawn up? If so, between which parties? What were the terms of the contract? What were the objectives of the agreement? How did the billing happen? What were the expected benefits? How did the checks on the compensations take place? My next question is about sponsorship in the context of a car-free Sunday. The questions are similar. When and in which municipality did this car-free Sunday take place? What was the cost of the organization? What amount of funding was paid out? How was it motivated? Was there a contract drawn up? If so, between which parties? What were the terms of the contract? What were the objectives of the agreement? How did the billing happen? What were the expected benefits? How did the checks on the compensations take place? I also have a question about sponsoring the membership of a third-class VIP club, a third-class football club. The questions are the same. I will not repeat them, Madam Secretary. Finally, I have a question about the sponsoring of the art project De Kus in Hasselt. What was the total cost? The questions are the same here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u111	What happened is behind us. I want to focus on the future. An audit has been carried out and lessons have been learned to prevent a repetition. There have been changes within the management team; the governance rules for the managers and directors of the subsidiaries have been repeated; the administrative regulations of the boards of the subsidiaries have been aligned with the internal rules of SNCB; there is an improvement in financial control, including for budgets; there is a follow-up of human resources, a legal follow-up and communication. Furthermore, there will be a half-yearly report to the Board of Directors of SNCB, a strengthening of the role of the audit committee of SNCB, and SNCB will be given the power to carry out internal audits of subsidiaries. The audit report was filed at the courthouse. Everything is being done to prevent these events from happening again. As far as the past is concerned, the public prosecutor will judge what action should be taken on the files. SNCB will cooperate with any question put by the public prosecutor. By the way, as my predecessor Paul Magnette has already replied to question No. 433 by Mr Guy Döyhaeseleer, the sponsorship policy of an autonomous public body is entirely outside my control of those companies, as provided for in the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u112	Madam Minister, you have not answered my specific questions, but thank you for that. I am already shocked, all the more so because according to the audit local political parties and mayors are sponsored. One may wonder whether it is a core task of the subsidiaries to sponsor such matters. The fact that there is no policy and that sponsoring is apparently provided on the basis of simple emails and without clear contracts is worrying and makes the worst of it. In the end, taxpayers' money is used as sponsor money for parties of politicians. That kind of nonsense harms us all, the whole political class, from you, Madam Secretary, to a simple Member of Parliament. I also regret that some fellow Members seem to lack some sort of moral compass and accept that kind of means for political gain without remorse. When it comes to sponsoring politicians and their private parties or parties from their local department, the limit of decency is far exceeded. That shows once again that it stinks on the railway company's boards of directors. I can only insist once again that you do what you have to do, Madam Secretary. Please muck out that stable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u113	The Minister has already indicated that it is about matters of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u114	Like you, I'm shocked by everything we've discovered. The case is in the hands of justice. I don't feel splattered at all. On the contrary, I took responsibility! As soon as I arrived, I noticed abnormal things and asked for audits. We have had the results and the case is in the hands of justice. I hope she does her job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-30-54-commissie-ic233x.u115	Madam Minister, I do believe that you are taking up your responsibilities in this matter and trying to turn things around. I do not criticize your policy at all. However, I remain very aware that some of my fellow Members have absolutely a lack of moral compass. I will be curious to hear what the public prosecutor has to say about that.
