ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u2	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u3	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as an introduction to my speech on pension reform, allow me to put a little riddle. Since Mr Gilkinet is not here, I will turn to Mr Cheron, who is the only Ecolo present. I also thought that Mr. Hedebouw could answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u4	I know the answer: it's Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u5	It's not Mrs. Marghem. Mr. Hedebouw is not here and I see that the ranks of the PS are sparse. I will ask Mrs. Lalieux, perhaps, to answer the guess. Who is the author of the following quote? "The first justification for pay-as-you-go systems is that they are best able to guarantee the amount of pensions reliably and predictably" – so far, everyone agrees. "But this does not mean that the ever greater accumulation of capital can be completely ignored and that nothing should be changed in the system currently in place in developed countries. There is, of course, the challenge of ageing: in a world where people die between the ages of 80 and 90, it is difficult to maintain the same parameters as those put in place at a time when people died between the ages of 60 and 70. In addition, the increase in the retirement age thus corresponds to a need for individual realization in the work. The difficulty is that there is a very wide variety of individual situations on these issues. The establishment of a single pension system based on individual accounts that allows everyone to acquire the same rights, regardless of the complexity of their career path, is one of the most important reforms that the social state is facing in the twenty-first century. This is to a large extent what was achieved by the reform introduced in Sweden in the 1990s. This system could be improved and applied to other countries. Such a system would allow everyone to better anticipate what they can expect from pension by distribution and thus better organize their savings and asset accumulation rights. Retirement is the heritage of those who do not have a heritage, it is often said. That's right, but it doesn't dispense with trying to ensure that heritage accumulation can also affect the most modest." Who made this quote? Is that Minister Bacquelaine? Or a horrible thinker from Chicago School? Or maybe Christine Lagarde?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u6	I think he's a college teacher.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u7	He's actually a university professor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u8	Frank Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u9	No, Mr. Cheron, it's not Frank Vandenbroucke! You could have thought it was Frank Vandenbroucke. Mr. Miller, you may have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u10	... Piketty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u11	Exactly, Mr. Miller! Bravo! It's Thomas Piketty in Capital in the 21st century. I can even give you page numbers, 784 to 786. I quote Piketty because the three colleagues I spoke about earlier – Mr Delizée, you were not there – including Messrs. Hedebouw and Gilkinet, quote Piketty abundantly. I have to say that there is not a day in the Social Affairs Committee without hearing "Piketty", "Piketty". So what did Piketty say about pensions? He noted that the increase in life expectancy automatically implied a change in parameters, which some on the left had repeatedly challenged in committee. Piketty also believes that a mixed distribution and capitalization system is needed, citing the Swedish model, which put Mr. Hedebouw in all his states. He was in trance when he was quoted as the Swedish model, and he was so displeased. Piketty also advocates a system of individualization of rights, despite the complexity of individual trajectories. In short, this illuminating quotation shows us the way forward and I think it is in full agreement with the system that our government wants to put in place, included in the government agreement and whose first chapter we are writing today. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than time to take action to safeguard our pension system. It is currently being tested by a combination of three factors. The first factor is the 60-64 year old participation rate in Belgium, which is below the OECD average: 18% in Belgium compared to an average of 42% in the OECD. The second factor is the steady increase in life expectancy at pension age from 3 years in the 1960s to 18 years at present. The third factor is the average retirement age, which in Belgium is lower than the European Union average. For women, this average age is 58 years in Belgium, compared with an average of 63 years in the European Union. For men, this is 59 years and 64 years respectively. It follows from all these factors that the budgetary cost of pensions in Belgium increased from EUR 25 billion in 2006 to EUR 41 billion in 2014. In order to reduce this budgetary cost, the government had the choice of acting on the length of careers or on the burden on workers or future generations, or on the amounts of pensions that could have been reduced. The government has chosen effective career extension. He thus wanted to avoid, on the one hand, a fall in the standard of living of future pensioners, which would have resulted from a reduction in the level of pension amounts. On the other hand, he wanted to avoid the emergence of intergenerational tensions that would have resulted from an increase in the burden of assets for pensions, jeopardizing the very concept of solidarity that underlies our system. It is therefore irresponsible to make it appear that the pension system we know today is sustainable in its present form. The reform undertaken by the government echoes the same reforms carried out in recent years or which will be carried out in the coming years in most EU and OECD states. The measures taken by the government also correspond to the recommendations made by most international bodies such as the OECD, the IMF or the European Commission, but also by national bodies such as the Committee of Experts chaired by Frank Vandenbroucke. You will have noted that recently, the Federal Office of the Plan, chaired by Mr.Donnay - but I see that the ranks of the CDH are empty - has indicated that pension reform can solve a problem, even if it is insufficient. International and national forums therefore encourage us to move in this direction. What are the measures contained in this pension reform? The first concerns the statutory pension age, which will be raised to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030, in line with the scenario outlined in the first report of the Pension Reform Commission. Contrary to this scenario, the reference career, which is currently 45 years old, is not extended. It's a fundamental element that we don't talk about enough. We did not affect the length of the actual career. The reform will therefore increase the average amount of pensions. Increasing the legal retirement age, which tends to become the norm at European level, will contribute to raising the average exit age from the labour market. In its February 2015 report, the OECD further recommended that Belgium raise the legal and effective retirement age to improve long-term debt sustainability. This is indeed the objective of the bill, since it also adapts the age and career conditions in order to be able to access the early pension. In 2019, you will have to reach the age of 63 and justify 42 years of career in order to be able to go to an early pension. In addition, in order to maintain the possibility for some persons to leave the pension earlier and, in spite of all this, raise the actual average age of departure from the pension, the legal age of the pension must also be raised. Thus, if we add the age of those who leave earlier to the pension and the age of those who work up to the legal age of the pension raised, 66 and then 67, we improve the average effective age of departure from the pension. It's mathematical! At the same time, our pension reforms must be accompanied by labour market reforms. It is necessary to encourage the retention of older workers in employment and to avoid that, in the end, the extension of the professional career contributes to increasing the weight of the periods assimilated in the calculation of the pension. The Minister for Employment has also launched a large-scale project on feasible work, which aims to review the very concept of a professional career and to introduce more flexibility for the benefit of the worker, in particular by taking account of the penitibility or the introduction of a partial pension. We cannot today fail to think of the tax shift, of course, which will have a fundamental impact on job creation in our country, thanks to the measures that we have just announced this afternoon. I note that the Federal Office of the Plan, after incorporating the government's reforms, indicates that a significant increase in the employment rate for people aged 55 to 64 is to be expected by 2060. The employment rate of persons aged 55-64 reached 66 per cent in 2060, 10 per cent higher than in the 2014 Annual Report of the Study Committee on Ageing, due in particular to the new pension reform. Finally, I would like to point out that, following the sixth reform of the State, the Regions have a large number of tools to increase the employment rate of our seniors: reductions in contributions targeted at older workers, training, measures to encourage the mentoring of young people, the adaptation of tasks and workplaces. The Council of State also stressed, in its recent opinion on the amendments to the CDH, that many measures could be implemented at regional level. However, I note that both the PS and the CDH, at regional level, do not seem particularly motivated to implement these measures, which are largely expected on the subject. The second measure contained in the pension reform concerns the further reform of the early pension. As a reminder, the previous government had already raised the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 years. He had also increased his career from 5 years in the public sector and 35 years in the private sector to 40 years for all. This government raises the age of early retirement to 62.5 years in 2017 and 63 years from 2018. The career condition is set at 41 years in 2017 and 42 years in 2019. Age exceptions are also provided for long careers in order not to penalize people who have started working very young and who can justify a long career. The third fundamental measure contained in this text is the continuation of the reform of survivors' pensions, initiated under the previous government. It is planned to gradually increase the age at which the surviving spouse is entitled to a survivor's pension, to 50 years in 2025 and to 55 years in 2030. As a reminder, an eligible person who does not meet the age requirement at the time of his or her spouse's death may benefit from the transitional allowance scheme. As for the possible complaint not to take into account the impact of these measures on women, it turns out that the study of this problem was entrusted to the Centre of Expertise, whose accompanying committee met for the first time on 8 June. It is responsible for preparing a report on the impact of the measures currently taken on women and for submitting this report to the National Pension Committee when it starts its work in September so that it can take them into account, in particular in the conditions of hard work. However, I would like to point out that our pension regulations have for many years now had the same legal pension age for men and women. Under the Dehaene government, the retirement age for women rose from 60 to 65 years without impact assessments being carried out at the time. Of course, the specific situation of women must be taken into account, but I believe that it is mainly at the level of women's careers, in particular by continuing to combat the wage gap and by giving them the means to pursue their own professional careers, that action will have to be taken to reduce these differences. In conclusion, the increase in life expectancy coupled with the improvement of health situations at an older age makes it possible to envisage longer careers. However, it must be borne in mind that not everyone is equal in the face of these improvements in health status. That is why we need to continue our work. To this end, the second chapter of the pension reform should be written, i.e. defining the concept of penitibility, since it is obvious that special situations must be able to be taken into account. If one touches the legal age of the pension, it is logical that the conditions for access to the early pension follow a similar direction tempered by transitional measures negotiated with the social partners. Thus, social dialogue will follow its course and the text to be submitted to us in the coming months will evolve according to the results of this dialogue. The National Pension Committee will begin its work next September on the issue of penitibility. As a first step, it will have to define the criteria for identifying heavy functions. In a second stage, it will examine, in accordance with the government agreement, the extent to which recognition of penitibility may be involved in the granting of more favourable pension arrangements. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude my speech by pointing out that raising the legal retirement age is not an end in itself, but, in particular, the objective of raising the effective average retirement age. These measures are part of a major reform which, on the one hand, aims to adapt our pension model to the current conditions of society which are no longer those we knew in the 1960s, and, on the other hand, focuses on the value of work in our society. As my colleague, Peter De Roover, said, through this reform, we are going to restore confidence in our pension system and ensure that our young people will be able to maintain a fair and equitable system.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost on the eve of the holiday. What was the great eye-catcher of the coalition agreement for some people, namely the increase in retirement age, is before the vote today. Not only is the increase before the vote, but also the adjustment of the early retirement pension and an adjustment of the survivor's pension. It is not always easy to provide the right information, as is often the case with files that are widely dealt with in the media. After all, pensions are a complex issue. However, it becomes even more difficult when half-truths are sometimes told, partial information is given or inaccuracies are disseminated. It will also be more difficult if some, perhaps wanted, give some dubious information and far from always making a clear distinction with a reform that took place during the previous legislature and, for the sake of simplicity, aligns everything. It also becomes more difficult when they do not always make the calculations clear. Mr De Vriendt, I admit that you are right. I mentioned it on my couch earlier. Those who start working at the age of 14 will have to continue to work for up to 60 years. What you did not mention, however, is that this measure has not been decided today. It was decided during the previous legislature and not today. The measure remains the same. Nothing's changed. That 14-year-old will have to retire effectively at 60 years, both today, yesterday and tomorrow. It's still the same. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I read a pension myth in that area in Knack by a number of scientists, who seemingly out of the present design I wouldn't know where else they found their information getting that we have actuarial calculations of pensions, which would show very clearly that pensions are falling, which is not the case. When people work longer, this also means that they can build up longer pensions. This also means that they are building up one fraction of an additional pension. This therefore does not imply a reduction in the pension. I would like to repeat once again clearly that not everyone will have to continue to work for up to 67 years, which some still want to claim or make believe. The people in the street believe that in the long run, too, if it is repeated enough here or in the media. Quod nun. That is certainly not the case. Certainly not everyone will have to work for up to 67 years. Anyone who starts work at 18 will be able to retire early at the age of 61. He or she will not have built up a full career and will therefore receive any fraction of his or her pension. Those who started at the age of 22 will also be able to retire early, namely at 64 years, after 42 career years. This person will not receive a full pension either. I would just like to repeat this clearly on the basis of the tables and the scheme as it stands. Indeed, those who work longer will build up more pension due to the additional fraction that comes with that pension building. By 2060 there will be no less than 4.1 million pensioners. This legislature represents 2.4 million. During this legislature, the cost of pensions is already rising by EUR 7 billion. The Planning Bureau and my fellow Members have already given figures. The Planning Bureau also gives the growth rate between 2014 and 2060, with the population rising by 17%. For the working population this would be a 6% increase. Place this percentage against an increase of 60 % for 60+ or 24 % for sixty-five+. The rising costs of ageing certainly do not relate only to the passing effect of the baby boomers, as Mr Vandenbroucke's report pointed out. This was an urgent matter for him to take rapid action. It simply also has to do with the fact that people live longer and that the average life expectancy is also rising. It has also risen to over 80 years, while at the same time young people study longer and start working later. They therefore have a shorter working period to build up a longer period of pension. Indeed, the financing of pensions does not resolve itself. We do not want to be responsible for the bankruptcy of the social security sector. Today, I want to be able to look the fifty-five people in the eye and tell them that we are going to guarantee their pension. But I also want to look our children in the eye and tell them that they are building on the pension we will have tomorrow. We also want to ensure that our young people have a solid legal basis to enjoy. Working longer becomes the norm. I understand that everyone agrees to that. That's what people are supposed to do. One expects to work longer. The fact that this is not equally easy for everyone is obvious. That is why there are also a number of mitigating circumstances and concerns in this reform. We are thinking of those who have started work at a young age and who can actually retire early with the long-term scheme at 60 or 61 years of age, if they have started at the age of 18. Additional transitional measures were taken for 58, 57 or 56 years, to provide for a maximum number of additional years for them, in addition to the reform of the previous legislature. A third element which is not insignificant and which, I think, has just been emphasized: the duration of the entire career remains 45 years. I know that there is a regular debate here on the question of age and career. I would like to stress once again that a career of 45 years remains. Perhaps you find all that obvious. To my surprise, I recently met someone on the street, a retired person who had worked longer than 65 years. He asked me if they could still retire after 45 years of working and whether they should continue to work for up to 67 years. However, I would like to continue to stress that people are confused by the complexity and, above all, by the constant repetition of the fact that everyone, regardless of the career that he or she has, would apparently have to work for up to 67 years. At the same time, I think we should keep saying that a full career counts for 45 years. That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right. This also means that, after 45 years, if one is not yet 67, one can of course retire. We have to keep repeating these self-evident facts. A fourth point. We believe that raising the retirement age will have a relatively limited impact in itself. Even today, not everyone works until retirement age. That is not the case today and will not be the case tomorrow. In the future, people will still be able to retire early and they will probably do so. Who will be affected by this increase in retirement age? This will be the case for those who have effectively built up a short career. Let me give you the example of someone who has worked for 30 years and who normally thought he could retire at the age of sixty-five. The person concerned will not have to work for up to 75 years, after 45 years of career. He will also not have to work for up to 72 years, after 42 years of career. He'll be able to quit at 67, despite his short career. Indeed, he will have to work two years longer, with a reform in 2025 and 2030. That way, he'll build up an extra two years' pension. One can find that negative, but it is an important element. This also means that those who are ill or unemployed after 65 years and before 67 years and had a short career are covered by sickness insurance and unemployment. I think it's normal that this can be done through health insurance. Health insurance isn't a hammock. There are checks going on. Health insurance is a system of solidarity that we have built up and used as such to cover those who are sick or disabled, even if it is related to their work. Working longer will not be obvious to everyone. I know that a number of routes are being set up, which have not yet been completed, but for which the start has been made. We still have a way to go in there. I'm thinking about workable work. For people with a job that is not feasible, that no longer presents challenges, that does not balance family and work, it is not evident to work longer. We call on the social partners to make this exercise of thought, which is completely taboo. I am convinced that employers will benefit from keeping their employees working longer and more motivated. I am thinking of those workers who do not want to be extinct themselves. It is clear that this is a cooperation between employers and employees. They both benefit from this. We look forward to the discussions on this matter. That could be related to formation. You are right, Mrs De Coninck, when you say that the training budgets go mainly to the highly skilled and much less to those who could use them well in their career planning. There will be a need for motivation, not only from employees but also from employers. There are indeed good examples on the ground. Much more than we are used to, we must bring along a piece of career planning. It is a concept which is now becoming more widespread, including for the unemployed, who will be accompanied by a piece of work and who will be examined for what is the right career for them. This is already being done in industry, in large companies, and an age-related career policy must be taken into account. That is essential and important. I trust that, under pressure from these measures, this can be achieved effectively. This also means that we pay particular attention to the heavy professions. In this context, I am thinking of working in weather and wind, working in shiftwork, lifting heavy weights and the like. It is perhaps self-evident to all of us that these elements should be taken into account. We must provide for appropriate arrangements for these groups, but at the same time we must include the idea of career planning and a career policy, the move towards less demanding tasks and less demanding professions. We are counting on the brand new National Pension Committee, which we hope will continue to deal with this issue in good cooperation with the Minister. The vote today is not over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u13	Mrs Becq, first of all, you say that you are counting on the National Pension Committee to come up with solutions for people who are in a heavy occupation. You know that the first measures of this pension reform will only start in 2017, with the raising of the early retirement age. Then why didn't CD&V argue for a global pension reform and wait for retirement age to be raised until there are solutions for people with a heavy occupation? You are not doing that now, and I am firmly convinced that you are only increasing uncertainty for people with a heavy occupation with this bill. People with a heavy occupation are confronted with the rising retirement age and do not know what is in front of them, what benefits they will get. Secondly, what do you think of the argument, particularly of employers' organisations, that people with a heavy occupation can be bought off with a high pension rather than with an early retirement age? We both followed the hearings in committee. This showed that employers' organisations are not so much convinced of the need for people to be able to stop in a heavier profession earlier because they are physically or mentally exhausted. No, they have to go on, and that has to be paid off with a higher pension. For us, that is totally inhumane. That ignores the whole philosophy of workable work. I would have liked your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u14	Why didn't we wait? I have a lot of faith in our social partners. The early retirement movement was launched and effectively introduced in the previous legislature. In this way, people can continue to work longer and both employers and employees are actually forced to work a little longer. I am confident that the National Pension Committee will succeed effectively by 2017. It is important that the text before us also contains an incentive to find a solution for these heavy-duty professions. That's important. Should this be done now by buying off the pension, as you say, or through a system of growing to another job? Right now, I'm not making any statements about that. Either way, we have to take the two of them. It'll depend on the duration. There's gonna be a lot of nuances in this story. I am counting on that to be worked out. Nuances have to do with the question of how long people have been in this heavy occupation and how long they have been carrying out these heavy tasks. What are the possibilities of growth or other possibilities? At what point? Are they pretending or not? As far as these heavy professions are concerned, there are many aspects that call for creativity. This assignment is for the National Pension Committee. There are other points on the agenda, for us and for the discussion. I am thinking not only of part-time pensions but also of supplementary pensions. This is an important challenge for us and for the social partners. I am also thinking of the mixed careers that more and more people are dealing with. Transparency is certainly an important element in this sector too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u15	Mrs Becq, the government has clearly chosen to transfer the hot potato, workable work, to the social partners. What if the social partners do not agree on the heavy-duty professions and workable work? How will the government react? Let her leave everything blue, as in the Netherlands, where the retirement age has also been raised and the rest has passed on to the social partners, who have not managed to reach a compromise? We in the Green Group want to avoid this scenario at all costs, because solutions are needed for people with a heavy occupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u16	Not only are you convinced that solutions are needed for those who exercise heavy professions and heavy tasks. That is clear to everyone. I believe that at the same time we must give every opportunity to the social partners, who are also aware of their great responsibility. I once worked in a cabinet of a minister who said he'd deal with the problems when they posed himself. At the same time, he sought solutions, always in good consultation. I am convinced that this government will do the same. Supplementary pensions require transparency. It is important for our citizens to find the way in what and when of retirement and it is important to remove their fear and uncertainty. Finally, Minister, I would also like to say that it has nothing to do with these lemons for the situation of women. You know I say that all the time. It is not obvious for women to build a full career. There are a number of equalisation measures, measures which can be applied in the same way for both men and women, but which we know are more used by women. We know that there is a pay gap and that women work part-time more easily. In the past, corrective measures were taken to strengthen minimum pensions. I continue to think it is important, Minister, that the situation of women should be taken into account and that measures should be taken in the light of the regulations we are making today, but also in the light of tomorrow's legislation, in the context of the famous retirement point, to pay attention to women who have raised children and not always taken a career break, who have often worked part-time and sometimes only fall back on themselves. It is also explicitly included in the government agreement that these elements are taken into account and that you are asking for proposals from the National Pension Committee. However, I would also like to put the question very explicitly to the expert committee, which can make proposals on its own initiative and which, in my opinion, provides a little too little solution to the situations of women, single people and people who are in the new family forms of today. When we talk, among other things, about the split-up, the Committee of Experts can, in my opinion, do a lot more work than it has done to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me, first of all, to speak in my capacity as chairman of the committee on the way in which we held the debate in committee. As the reporter, Mr Delizée, said, we discussed the draft for more than 30 hours, asked questions, held substantive debates, held hearings and also had a lot of questions answered by the Minister. I would like to express my gratitude to the members of the committee, in particular the members of the opposition, for effectively respecting the agreement we have reached on how we would work, as well as for the serene, correct and contradictory debate. Ladies and gentlemen, in the same movement, I would like to thank the Minister for his in-depth knowledge of the dossier, as well as for the vision and sense of responsibility he has shown during our committee discussions. This is, of course, a very important debate. In the long term, the decisions we will take will affect many people's careers and careers. It is an important dossier because it is probably about the most important budget in our budget. In 2015, we will spend EUR 43 billion on our pensions. That amount will only continue to increase in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, the main reason why this is a crucial debate is because it is a law which works in the long term and which ignores the delusion of the day, which we politicians are confronted with every day and which the press is so keen to participate in. It is a debate, it is a law that must guarantee our long-term social security and certainly our pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed for a long time the sense or nonsense of raising the retirement age. One thing is certain, and we agree on that: the debate did not just fall out of the sky. For years, we've known that the cost of ageing is hanging over our heads like a sword of Damocles. For years, international bodies have been asking us to raise the actual retirement age. For years we have been debating White Papers and Green Papers in this House to find solutions. The challenge we face is enormous. To put it in figures: if we did nothing, the pension bill would rise from EUR 40 billion to EUR 60 billion in 2060. There's no other way. When we look at the figures, we see that our country is doing very badly. But one in four sixty-six is working in our country, compared to 33% in Europe. The average exit age, the age at which people leave the labour market in our country, is below 60 years. The average career of a Belgian is only 32.5 years, while in the Netherlands it is 40 years and in Sweden it is even 41 years. The most important figure is that these short-term careers have only allowed us to see the risk of poverty of pensioners rise. That is why there must be an agreement that we must do something about it, that we must speed up our efforts to solve the problem of pensions. This is also the path taken by the majority, the government and the minister: reform in order to safeguard and strengthen pensions. The reform consists of several parts, but allow me to highlight two. That is, first of all, the early retirement, where we increase the career from 40 years to 42 years and the retirement age from 62 years to 63 years in the early retirement scheme. Secondly, the legal pension raised from 65 to 66 in 2025 and to 67 in 2030. Those aren't brutal moves, they're not decisions that suddenly put people on the spot. It is decisions that must allow people to know where they stand in the long term. At the same time, they are decisions whose impact is not minimal. Between today's committee meeting and today's plenary session, the Committee of Inquiry on Ageing has explicitly quantified the impact of the reforms that we are going to adopt here in Parliament today. That decision is pertinent and important. This reform will increase the cost of ageing by 2% less than originally estimated by 2060. That's EUR 8 billion. In other words, what is being presented here by the government has a huge impact on keeping pensions affordable. A second important calculation of the study committee has been neglected in the media. It is about the fact that this pension reform will significantly reduce the risk of poverty for pensioners, because people's careers will be extended and because the government will also increase minimum pensions. In other words, what is presented here guarantees for the young generation a pension system that guarantees a good pension and ensures that poverty among our pensioners will fall systematically. That is why we, along with our group, naturally want to support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u18	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are actually forcing me to intervene again and to say almost the same thing as this morning. In the meantime, your speech has already been rejected. I do not remember who said first, Mrs Temmerman whispered to me that Mr De Roover was saying that this pension reform will lead to both higher pensions and savings for the government. This is indeed supported by the ageing committee, but in the meantime it has become clear that the ageing committee, which, as it were, isolates that pension reform from social security and does not calculate the impact of this pension reform on the higher number of people who suffer from illness and disability. That is a first point. Secondly, that this reform would lead to a higher pension rate, if everyone were to continue to work more effectively, which is not the case. It is not because you decree that the retirement age should be increased for the permanent and early retirement that people will all remain good at work. There are other systems. We even saw this in the 1990s, when the retirement age for women was raised to 65. We can no longer imagine that this was being tested at the time, but it was. One of the things that we saw at the time is that many women who were the subject of the increase in retirement age did not continue to work in the short term but fell into unemployment, because of illness and disability. So pay attention to such bold statements that this will lead to savings of 1.7 % of GDP between 2014 and 2060 and higher pensions for all. This is not the case, it has to be slightly nuanced. I am not saying that it will not, by definition, be, but I am saying that it is difficult for us to say this now, on the basis of the data we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u19	Mr Van Quickenborne, I would like to return to what you said about the ageing committee. It is true that, according to their calculation, ageing costs would be halved in the future. You forget to mention, or you have missed, that this is just one of the scenarios. This is the maximum scenario of the ageing committee. If we look at the other scenarios, there is indeed still a reduction, but it is far less spectacular than the halving. Moreover, a number of experts have already said that we need to be careful to look this far into the future, especially because additional measures, which are also necessary and which this government is going to take in the future, are necessary in order for people to actually work longer, regardless of the retirement age. That's a little nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u20	I will come back later on to workable work and the heavy professions. First of all, I want to talk about the Committee of Inquiry into Ageing. It is up to the Minister to confirm or deny this later in his speech. I'm sure he'll address us. However, the Committee of Inquiry has examined all social expenditure, not only pension expenditure, but also other social expenditure, including that to which you refer, Mr De Vriendt. It also shows that with the reform we are doing, the impact on GDP will decrease between 2014 and 2060. I come to your second point: what will happen to the emissions of people who can no longer work? Of course, we do not rule out the possibility that people will end up in other systems here and there. However, the reality is that the reform that has been carried out with regard to women's pensions by the Dehaene Government in the 1990s, which increased the retirement age for women from 60 to 65 years and also increased their careers, has led to a sharp increase in the employment rate of women in our country in recent years. Those measures have contributed to this. Of course, we do not say that everyone will follow blindly when such reform is implemented, but in reality, the majority of people will be able to do so and will continue to work longer. I therefore believe that the calculations of the Committee of Inquiry for Ageing can indeed be followed. After all, I think they approach the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u21	You think the majority will actually work longer, but can you be more precise? Does the government have any idea how many more people will have to work through this pension reform? You have to admit it's wet fingering. In my view, it is important to know not only the budgetary impact, but also the sociopolitical impact of this pension reform. That is why we need to get an answer to that very simple question of how many people will have to work longer. One can do that on the basis of simulations. Based on the current age cohorts, one can make such an exercise perfect. In committee, at the end of June, we found that the government did not have these figures. An assignment would be given to the knowledge centre of the National Pension Committee. The government came to Parliament with an imperfect figure table. Is that problem solved or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u22	Mr Van Quickenborne, you did not reply earlier, but I would like to confirm once again that it is one of the scenario scenarios, the maximum scenario. Honesty commands you to also emphasize the other scenarios. The head of the Planning Bureau, Mr Donnay, has also said that if additional measures are not taken in the future to make people work longer effectively, the increase in retirement age will only produce something, but not what is expected of it. In particular, the additional measures are necessary to keep people working longer. That's what the ageing committee says.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u23	It's true what you're saying, Mrs. Temmerman. Regional Parliaments and regional governments, including the Flemish Government, will, among other things, take an important target group measure with regard to older workers from a certain age. This ensures the affordability of work. The Planning Bureau and the study committee are right when they say that a set of measures must be taken. The reality is that this reform, whether it is the minimum, middle or maximum scenario, can reduce budgetary costs while at the same time keeping people working longer. That's the essence. The measures taken have a serious budgetary impact but are not revolutionary at the same time. I don't believe that. I certainly do not believe that the words of the opposition and the collected links in our committee, which are "unsurpassable' and "inbuvable', apply to this reform. Why? I myself have a past in the government-di Rupo. We then took a first important step in the area of early retirement. We did some serious reforms back then. We have extended the career of people from 35 to 40 years and in the public sector even from 5 years to 40 years. We've raised the early retirement age from 60 to 62 years. These are, in other words, efforts decided upon by a previous government. Today's opposition parties were still majority parties back then. Secondly, honour to whom credit is due, the centre left introduced a very important reform in the 1990s, when it was decided to set the retirement age of men and women at 65 years, and this in a gradual manner. As a result, women's employment rates have increased dramatically today. Thirdly, what we are doing is not revolutionary. If we look at what other countries in Europe have already decided, we are actually a descendant. The reality is that in Scandinavia, the statutory retirement age is already higher than 65 years. In our three neighbouring countries, Germany, France and the Netherlands, we have already decided to increase that statutory retirement age. In Denmark, it has even been decided to increase it to 72.5 years in 2060. If we did nothing in this Parliament, we would gradually be the fence shutter, in the company of countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Malta and a number of others. That is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, these facts put the reform in perspective. That is necessary, because the opposition has told fables about this pension reform in recent weeks and months. For example, there is the fable that from 2025 and 2030 all people should be required to work up to 66 or 67 years. That's not right, for the following reasons. Firstly, this government retains the system of early retirement. In other words, people will still be able to retire at the age of 60, 61 or 62 if they have a sufficiently long career. Secondly, the career condition of 45 years is not changed, it is not increased by this government, which in 2025 or 2030 will still allow someone who started working at 18 years to retire at 63 years. Thirdly, the government and the social partners will provide for exceptions for heavy professions, but I will come back to that later. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the criticism of the opposition, but as chairman and member of the committee, I have often asked myself the question of the alternative proposed by the opposition. The figures are there, Mrs Temmerman. What is the alternative the opposition proposes? Mrs Temmerman, that alternative must guarantee the same budgetary yield. So it is not an alternative where we close our eyes and we will see what comes. That has been the mentality in this country for decades. That is the reality. I have listened to the Socialist colleagues and I have noticed that they have entered into a new alliance with the new chairman, the Belgian socialists' alliance, the PS and the sp.a. It's an alliance that I find interesting, by the way, because our party, Open Vld, likes to work with the MR to get things moving and change things. The question, however, is what alliance, what alliance has been made here between the socialist parties. I can only establish that it is the alliance of the standstill, the alliance of the status quo. After all, the only thing I heard from the new chairman of sp.a about changing the system was non-binding. One would ask people to work a little longer and one would see that they would work longer. The noncommittality, that was what was put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, if the solution is non-committalism, how is it that, with the previous government, we have increased the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 years, and the length of a career from 35 to 40 years? My fellow Socialists, why did you do that then, and why are you hesitant about further reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u24	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, first of all, the age has not been raised by the previous government. She stayed at 65 years. Secondly, you suggest that there are no alternatives. We have tabled a whole series of amendments. I'll rename them later. These are amendments that give alternatives to keeping people working longer. That is what needs to be done. It is not only the age that needs to be increased; it must also be ensured that people can work longer. That's what needs to be done. Those amendments are there. You will probably be able to approve them together with us when we have finished the discussion. A very important factor, which is very different from what you are proposing, is funding once again. After all, you say that the budget must be equal. We have a proposal on this. Part of the pension scheme has also been put forward by the Pension Commission and must be funded through equity funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u25	It should be financed through what?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u26	It has to be funded through assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u27	It must therefore be financed again by means of assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u28	Nothing's been funded by assets yet. We heard that earlier. Nothing's happened on the property yet. Mr Van Quickenborne, do you know that people's wealth is growing exponentially compared to income from labour? Capital income is rising much faster. If you do not charge that part of the pension at all, you will be able to pay pensions in full in the future. That's our alternative. It is quite wrong that you claim that this is a status quo and that we do not want to move forward. We have always said that longer work is needed. However, we do not place the emphasis on age. We stress the career, which the current government is not doing at all. It proves that, because it gives no incentive to do anything about that career. So there is an alternative, but it is not the alternative you have chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u29	Mrs Temmerman, I am not surprised that you are not answering my question as to what you are going to do to make people work longer. Your answer is to increase the power burden. That is actually the answer to the question of how we allow people to work longer. We're going to tax the assets! You used the assets first to close the budget, then you use the assets to reduce the wage burden, now you say you use them to pay the pensions. You must have counted yourself incredibly wealthy, Mr Vande Lanotte: you have spent the funds three times already! What I am asking the Socialists is what they will do to extend people's careers and careers. What are you going to do about the statutory retirement age? Nothing about that last one, I already knew that. But what will you do about the career conditions? I would like to know that from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u30	Mr Van Quickenborne, I suggest that you take Amendment No 1 from my list. 7 in connection with retirement, 42 years old, is about to be approved. Then we're gonna extend the careers, not raise the age. I did not say that we would simply appeal to the powers. That's not about extending the career, it's about affordability. Affordability guarantees you by obliging people to work longer, or keeping people longer in unemployment or in health insurance. We say that there can be a small contribution from the capacity to secure pensions in the future. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u31	Mr President, I rise to answer the interesting question of our committee chairman. I think you were here earlier when I intervened. I have quoted a series of proposals. Do you want me to repeat them to you? I'll do it. This is a series of measures aimed at encouraging – and not obliging – workers to pursue their careers. I am thinking in particular of the bonus for all workers who can go to the early pension and who choose to stay; in this respect, we have tabled a proposal which is already on the table. There is also the possibility of making the choice of continuing to work possible. The other elements I mentioned earlier are: - create an individual right to training of four days (five days for workers aged 45 and over). Indeed, they must be able to continue to work, and they must want to do so; - enable workers to adapt their working hours, in particular through credit-time (fifth time, half-time, according to age); - to improve working conditions by making it compulsory to conclude a plan for the employment of workers; - to prevent the drop-out of workers with systematic follow-up of psycho-social risk analysis. This is a whole series of very concrete measures that will allow workers to stay longer and above all to involve employers in synergy with workers so that there is employment also for older workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u32	Mr. Daerden, I've heard your list before. But the problem with your list is that it aims to encourage people to work longer by increasing time credits, with four-fifths. But who's going to pay for all this? Again the assets to which Ms. Temmerman referred? It costs money! With this reform, we must save money. You have to find money instead of spending money! That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u33	Mr. Van Quickenborne, there are two elements. On the one hand, complementary sources of funding must be found. The Special Committee suggested that. It considered that this was one of the pillars of the reform to have to have, i.e. to find complementary funding, especially on the heritage. On the other hand, we must also realize that with the postponement of the legal age of the pension, there will be communication vessels from one part of the social security system to the other. To allow people to continue working is to prevent them from being unemployed or receiving disability benefits. It is also to allow a gradual departure from the pension and not to go through a suggestion, the part-time pension, which can be interesting. I'm waiting to see the details. I think that tools are already in place that can be used or reactivated without having a higher overall cost to the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u34	Mr Daerden, as you know, I have a lot of sympathy for you. But I don't have the impression that your proposal is convincing. I would like to return to what Mrs Temmerman said. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Temmerman has answered the question of what she specifically proposes as a career condition. She said that the Socialists are proposing 42 years. Ladies and gentlemen, taking 42 years as a career condition is a step backwards, because today's career condition is 45 years. If it is reduced by three years, it will be reduced and it will cost more than today's reality. This is the mistake that the Socialists are making: they are going backwards, while we must move forward with this reform, while we must reform instead of taking steps backwards. That's the problem. The Socialists have been brave up to and including the previous government. Then suddenly they saw that it was too far. Since then, there has been no courage to question matters. That's too bad. That is what we must do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u35	Mr van Quickenborne, it is about real working time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u36	How are you going to enforce that? Forty-two real years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u37	Now it's getting interesting. We had a debate on this yesterday and just now. When it comes to forcing what employers have to do, it cannot be enforced. You have to try to get them to do it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u38	Trust is indeed the word. Employers must be trusted, but workers must be obliged, because they cannot be trusted. That's what this government, and certainly your party, is doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u39	Mr President, I believe that at least we have heard the alternative from the Socialists: to spend more and to tax the assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u41	At the same time, people must be given more freedom and sometimes make a commitment, and an employer, and an employee. That's what we do, so don't worry. I will come to what the employers will have to pay. The second alternative comes from Green. The motto of Green is: it can be different. I believe that this is more a reference to the opposition of my fellow Members from the sp.a rather than to government policy, but completely aside. Green has come up with an alternative, although not in committee. I will come to that later, my fellow Members. At an unattended moment in 2011, the eminent MP and pension expert, Mr De Vriendt, put forward an alternative: we need to leave the idea of the statutory retirement age, which is no longer a matter of time, and we need to focus on the mileage on the numerator, in particular the career condition, the number of years that have to be worked. Mr De Vriendt's proposal was accepted in the Greens' election programme. I read it out: Green wants a flexible pension, where people are entitled to a full pension after 45 years of working life. Colleagues, if I'm listening correctly, that's a punishment proposal, isn't it? Firstly, it wants to put an end to early retirement with fewer career years. Secondly, a person who has graduated at 24 or 25 years old can only retire fully at 69 or 70 years old. I understand why this proposal has not been explained in committee. After all, it goes much further than what we are proposing. Frankly, Mr De Vriendt, I think you have made a serious mistake here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u42	Now I understand why you made that reasoning error ten minutes ago, when you addressed Mrs Temmerman and said that these 42 career years actually mean a decline. Now it's 45 years. You are confusing two things, Mr Van Quickenborne, namely the number of years needed to get a full pension and the number of years needed to retire. That is a basic element in this whole pension debate. We want to keep a full pension amount after 45 career years. No one in the previous government, nor in the present one, contests that. It is good to make this clear. Our programme states that a pension can be taken after 42 career years. This is a progressive proposal, with which we are on the same wavelength as sp.a. You, on the other hand, who use expensive words here as reformist and modern, have failed to be so innovative. You continue to maintain the link between retirement age and career conditions, whereas you should not do so. You now had the chance to let go of that and reward people for the number of years worked, instead of trying to hold on to the retirement age in a conservative way. Our proposal was to retire people after 42 years, with a safety valve at 65 years. I explained that this morning, but I don't know if you were here. I will repeat it, because every time the wrong arguments are cited here, even though they were thrown out of the Chamber a while ago. Those 45 years, that's one thing, but those 42 years, that's another thing, Mr. Van Quickenborne. So remember that distinction and try to be innovative. Let go of retirement ages and do something about the heavy professions. That is a social reality. You can be as innovative as you like, but meanwhile the construction workers, the people in the social sector, the nurses on the front page of the newspaper read that you want to raise the retirement age. On the next page they hope to find government measures, specifically for their heavy professions, but that page is blank. That is inconceivable and incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u43	Mr Van Quickenborne, I find it hallucinating to see that you are reminding Green Members of their election programme. Maybe I should remind you of the Open Vld election program. What did it say? Do you remember?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u44	I remember very well, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u45	How do you rhyme with that? It stated that the statutory retirement age would be maintained at 65 years. However, you are standing here with a great deal of triumph explaining why it is necessary to raise the retirement age to 67 years and how you want to do it. How do you do that rhyme?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u46	Mrs Kitir, that is a very fresh point that we have not yet heard. It's the first time we've heard that accusation here. That's probably an incredible hunch of the moment. The statutory retirement age will be increased, but not during this legislative period. This will be done in 2025 and 2030 because, like all other European countries, we need to look at things in the long term. Mr Vande Lanotte, your previous party chairman has said that if your party comes back to power, you will reduce the 67 years to 65 years. Can you confirm that or not? If you enter the government, will you turn everything back?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u47	Mr Van Quickenborne, that is the case, for the simple reason that this measure is a sham measure. It's not reform, it's savings. Will people aged 66 and 67 work longer? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u48	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u49	No! This government is raising age, but no measures have been taken so far to make people work longer. If we accompany people aged 55, 56 or 57 to new work in our urban environment today, they will come back every day with the message that they are no longer wanted anywhere. You haven't done anything about it so far. You're doing the opposite. First you raise the age, first you save and one day you're going to help people to keep their jobs. Today they are constantly denied, day after day. That is the reality on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u50	Mr Vande Lanotte, your speech has taught us something, namely that you confirm that if the socialists return to the government, which will be possible from 2019 onwards, they will reverse that reform. That's noted. The press is here. Mr Vande Lanotte, you know something about numbers. This means that the reform, which will provide EUR 8 billion for the public sector, will be financed in a different way. What you are doing now is what Mr Hollande said for the campaign in France. He then declared that he would reduce the retirement age. In the end, he had to abandon his intention. That is the reality. This is what the opposition says on the left, which is that it will reverse everything. It does so until it comes to the majority and is confronted with reality. Look at Greece and all the other countries where the socialists have to take responsibility again. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u51	Mr Van Quickenborne, of course you are not answering the question. It was a pretty annoying question. However, you must explain to me the following. The increase in retirement age to 67 years was not included in any election programme, either of Open Vld, nor of the MR, nor of the N-VA, nor of CD&V. Yet you increase that age. What was stated in the Open Vld, N-VA and CD&V election programmes are measures on workable work. Well, you're not gonna do that. So all these people stay in the cold. I only have one word for that, namely electoral deception. It's a fine example of electoral deception. It is a conspiracy within the majority: not to include a measure in the electoral programme, but to implement it as soon as you are given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u52	Mr De Vriendt, I would like to point out that this measure was included in our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u53	Mr Vuye, are you saying that this measure was in your election programme? I'd say you shouldn't contradict your chairman. In a debate with Paul Magnette, among others, your chairman said that raising the statutory retirement age is pointless.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u54	Mrs Temmerman, our programme stated that the statutory retirement age would not be increased during this legislature. And that will not happen, because the age will not be increased until 2025 and 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u55	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u56	Unfortunately, I am not very often present at these debates, but I note that the government today does not decide to increase VAT, as Mr Vuye said, and that we are not voting today on raising the retirement age. This is at least seven walks of truth. Now we have to launch a press release stating that the retirement age is not rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u57	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you two more questions. First of all, there is the ultimate argument that colleagues from the opposition and Mr De Vriendt are working hard, especially workable. In fact, we are still looking for a French translation. There is no workable work, or there is a shortage of workable work. You cannot increase the retirement age until you have found a golden solution or formula. So few people work after 55 or 60 years. Could the reason not be that we have been patient in our country for much too long, so that people have always taken the opportunity to leave far too early? In the discussion on the SWT, the former bridge pension, and on active and passive availability, I read the most relevant remark about potential SWT pensioners or bridge pensioners in the newspaper De Standaard. Several people were questioned on the threshold of the SWT. To the question of how they feel about being available after the bridge pension, the answer from all those people was unisono that they would continue to work where they now work. That is the reality. The bridge pensions have ensured that people have systematically left the labour market. They haven't worked long enough. That is the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u58	It's a shame you say that. The SWT was given to people who worked in a company and who had to drain. They were pressured by employers to take a bridge pension. Of course, those people wanted to keep working.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u59	Mr Van Quickenborne, I understand that you want to make your point, but at some point one must remain honest in the game. What you're doing right now is completely unfair. As Mr De Coninck says, it has not been everyone's choice to take a bridge pension. Bridge pension is not a duty, but a right. One needs the employer's permission to go. Often, when the conditions are met, one can ask to take a bridge pension if the employer gives the permission to do so. However, the majority of people are dismissed, Mr Van Quickenborne. In the case of restructuring, they have no choice; they are dismissed. The illusion that all bridge-retired people should no longer be available on the labour market in the past is a big lie. Only those who had worked for more than 38 years were exempt. All other SWTs had to apply to the labour market as well, they had to apply and remain available. So don't pretend that all SWTs had to disappear from the labour market anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u60	Colleagues of the sp.a. I still don't understand. For forty to forty-five years now we have known the system of first bridge pension, later SWT. At the time, the original logic was passing on jobs from older people to young people. We have done this for 40 years and the end result is that we are in Europe in the match-ton on unemployment for the elderly and young people. The system has therefore failed and it is, in fact, socio-economically irresponsible for you to continue to defend it. The course we are pursuing is clear and we have pursued it under Mr Di Rupo: we have conducted it together, together we have made career and seniority conditions stricter in order to reduce and eliminate the system. After all, it doesn't work that way. It is not by placing people on inactivity, that they create jobs for young people. It goes the other way: by making people work, by making them invest, they create new jobs for young people. I am very surprised that you continue to defend this system and continue to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u61	Mr Lachaert, would you please answer the following question? There is restructuring and people get a choice. They are put on the street anyway; at that time, continuing to work is no longer a choice or alternative. Either they are pushed into the SWT system, which I just said they should remain available on the labour market, unless they have worked for several years. Imagine that the SWT does not exist. Today people of 45 years of age apply and they are told by the employer that he thinks they are too old. Either they're too old, or they're too young and have no experience, or they're too expensive. There are 1 001 excuses. People here pretend that sp.a does not want people to work and we pretend that people do not want to work or do not like to work, there are people crying out for work. A lot of people want to work, a job is a basic income to have a good life. So stop arguing like we're just here for the people who don't want to work. What measures do you take for a 45-year-old person who's gonna apply and be told he's too old? We now have the debate on pensions. We have had the debate on the index jump. We are asking for concrete measures from the people, we are going to work longer, we are going to deliver them, but what concrete measures have you now asked employers to take, apart from playing on trust? What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u62	Mrs Kitir, the fact that you continue to defend that bridge pension and put it on the table causes you to see that the older people first left in restructuring. Why? Because the system existed and it was interesting for employers and employees to get rid of those older people first. We don't want that anymore. Together with you, we in the previous government made sure that there was a mix. We have put the intentions on the table there to ensure that it is done with only the elderly being kicked out in the process of restructuring. You are advocating that once again, you are advocating that this system be re-established, so that it is fiscally and parafiscally interesting to throw those older people out first. Well, we say no to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u63	Mr Lachaert, I will put my question a little more simply. What measures are you taking for older workers who are made redundant in the event of restructuring, independently of the SWT? There's no such thing in this story anymore. What measures are you taking to keep these people working?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u64	That is, of course, a much more complex debate than just the retirement age, as you know. This requires a package of measures, ranging from parafiscal support measures at regional level for older people on guidance and coaching of people to all proposals made on workable work, the round table that this government is organising, the note that our party has put on the table and that all coalition partners have put on the table. Let us discuss this in the coming months rather than the non-discussion you want to have in order to re-establish the bridge pension. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u65	I would like to refer to an example that was published in the media this week. The Bosch company is asked to grant a bridge pension from the age of 53. I have to say, when I heard that, I was wondering whether we had not reformed that system in the previous legislature. Up to 53 years of retirement. Is that the system we want to systematically eject older people from the labour market? Do we want to maintain that? Secondly, where is the responsibility of these employers? That is why our group is satisfied that it has not been explained today by the government that it has been decided last night that the contribution of employers to the SWT will be increased by this government. In other words, employers will have to take responsibility if they choose that system. That is the reality. It's a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hear a lot of criticism here, but the Socialist comrades must know one thing for sure. Mrs. Kitir asked what we do for the older people. I refer to the policy, you should know that target groups policy is a Flemish matter. I refer to the decision taken a few months ago. In Flanders, we have a specific target group policy with RSZ discounts to ensure that people over 55 years of age are effectively recruited. Employers who hire someone get a RSZ discount. I think you should know this. Secondly, what did you do in the previous legislature to get these people recruited? After all, having a job is a basic right. What did you do in the previous legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u67	We have also given discounts for older people. That was the target group policy, which Minister Muyters in the Flemish Government said was far too complicated and that all these measures would be abolished. We have given additional discounts for small businesses if they had fewer than four employees; we have taken care of this. What I do not understand is that it is said here that the bridge pension, or the system of unemployment with a single payment, will continue to exist. You say that it has been decided that the contribution of the former employer will be increased. That's a double discourse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u68	Mrs De Coninck, indeed, we have at last done something about this at Flemish level. There were over 30 types of RSZ discounts at the federal level. The companies no longer knew which discounts they were eligible for. Thanks to Minister Muyters, a very transparent system has been created, tailored to the Flemish labour market. We have a target discount for young people and for fifty-five+. For people between 55 and 59 years of age, it is a maximum of 600 euros per quarter. For people from 60 years of age, it is a maximum of 1 150 euros per quarter. For people with disabilities we also have a target group discount. The companies were waiting for that. They did not benefit from 30 different types of RSZ discounts. At least now we have a policy that is tailored to the Flemish level. I hope that work will finally be done on the fifty-five-plus group and that they will finally be recruited, because, as Mr Lachaert said, the problem was that they were not recruited. In the case of restructuring, the first thing that came on the table was I am speaking as a lawyer, I have done a lot of such files and I have done the file on the bridge pension. Who's gonna benefit from that? These people do not benefit from being kicked out at the age of fifty-five or even earlier and then out of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u69	I have two things to say to that. Firstly, you have just said that the employer will now pay more in the case of a bridge pension. You know that this means that it will be practically impossible to recruit an older unemployed person aged 54 or 55. This means that the new employer will pay the full cost. As long as this is not completely abolished, there is now an additional barrier to recruiting older people. Secondly, our great reproach with regard to the target group rebates is that the specific discounts given to people with lower levels of education are now being eliminated. There are only young people and older people left. That means there's a much larger group that's much less specific. But the most important argument in the labour market today is to be educated or unskilled. So it is not about someone who is older, who has long studied and is highly educated, but about those who have not received such training. That aspect has been swept away. For example, for all Ford workers, that's a decline. For workers in industry who are made redundant, the compensation is a decline. What have we done? With debt securities, for example for older workers, but also for workers without high diplomas, we had a higher level of intervention than today. The target groups that have now been defined will not lead to additional employment. On the contrary, they will make it impossible for people who are struggling to be recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u70	Mr President, I can conclude on this point that we in the previous government, Mr Vande Lanotte, apparently at that time you were not systematically increasing the contributions that employers must make. Suddenly you're against it. That's a very strange argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u71	We've gone too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u72	You've gone too far. It seems that you have gone too far in all respects: the unemployment of young people and their benefits, as well as pensions. However, I am beginning to understand. The new chairman of the sp.a has stated that the sp.a wants to follow a new direction. That direction for you is on the right side. That's the direction. People want to find alliances with parties like Syria, or even with parties like the PVDA, and build a united extreme left front to reverse all the reforms we have ever undertaken. That's the choice the sp.a makes. Mr Vande Lanotte, you are more sensible than that. Elections are always won in the center and never on the extremes. They're always won in the center. I therefore hope that the mind will return to the sp.a. That will certainly be necessary. Colleagues, Minister, on workable work, the debate is taking place at the round table with your colleague Kris Peeters. However, our group wishes to make it clear that we must not shy away from any taboo in this debate. We have found, somewhat to our dismay, that the whole discussion on the seniority of older workers is not an object or part of the discussion. Mrs Kitir, the biggest obstacle that employers do not want to recruit older people is simply because the gross cost for these people is far too high. That is the reality. This obstacle is resolved by, firstly, the target discount referred to by Mrs Demir, which has been decided and will enter into force from 1 January 2016 and, secondly, by dareing to break the taboo of seniority. However, we can only see that there is a great deal of hesitation among the social partners, probably especially in the trade unions, to talk about this taboo. The cost of older employment is simply far too high. Mr Minister, our party in Parliament, when our question does not come up with a satisfactory answer, will make alliances with other parties and force the government to make certain decisions. Mrs Demir, what we have done in the field of anti-discrimination will also be done in terms of seniority. Mr Lachaert has already done something about this. That is what needs to be done. If the conservatism of the social partners continues for too long, it is up to Parliament to act and take steps forward. Minister, we have also seen that you are right to place the ball in the camps of the social partners and of the National Pension Committee for the heavy professions. That is a good thing. Nevertheless, we would like to warn against two things. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the heavy professions, is it perhaps not better to talk about heavy tasks rather than the heavy professions? I'll give you an example of the police, well known to the mayors among us. Can you say that the work of a police officer is a difficult profession? The logical answer, the answer of common sense, is that this depends on the type of work that one does. When it comes to night-time interventions, it is a difficult task. When it comes to regulating traffic or processing minutes, this is not a difficult task. So there is a big difference between a heavy occupation and a heavy task. We really have to take that into account. Secondly, the technological changes in our society can quickly change that list of heavy-duty professions. It's going very fast in our society. What's heavy today may be light tomorrow. Work in the factory used to be very heavy on certain appliances. Today we can lighten the work for these people through ergonomics, computers and digital control. Mr President, when a list of heavy-duty professions is drawn up, account must also be taken of developments in this area. I was once confronted as Minister of Pensions with a list of heavy-duty professions. That was a list the Flemish government had given me. There were all kinds of appeals. I'm thinking about rat catchers now. I would ask you to beware of the fall of the heavy professions. Once the debate is held, everyone will find at the end of himself that he is engaged in a heavy occupation, perhaps even some Members of this House. Mrs Becq rightly says that a Member does not have a heavy profession. Some of them work a lot, and that's a tough job. Those are the ones who are here now. Those who are not here have a light task. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to tell us what the state of play is with regard to the debate on the heavy professions. When does that have to be decided? What direction is that supposed to go? I decide. Our group understands people who are concerned about the fact that they will have to work longer. At the same time, however, we are part of the younger generation in our society that they all realise that because we live longer, we also need to work longer. We must also understand that the debate on workable work and the heavy professions should take place sooner than later. People need to know what they're up to. Thirdly, understand that what we are doing here is a process that makes many things possible in the long term. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. We have spent many hours on this bill and on this discussion. We have done this with a Parliament that is looking at the long term. That is something that we do far too little in politics. The limited interest of the press in this important subject also says a lot. One prefers to deal with the bickering, the argument from day x to day y, who has said what and who has said nothing. The essence of politics is dare to reform in the long term, and that is what you are doing, Minister, with this law. That is why we will vote unanimously and with complete conviction for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said. It has already been mentioned that we have had very long debates in committee. I'll try to be brief. Two fellow Members will add to my speech. In their statement, all speakers stressed that this is a crucial issue. After all, it determines the future of many people in our country. That is why this must be well prepared and well discussed and the proposals must be widely supported. Our conclusion on these pension measures by the Michel Government is that they are unbalanced and unjust, a bit like the previous budget. We note that the Michael administration is failing to have a comprehensive reform, a balanced reform that should lead to a new pension pact between the social partners, workers, employers and the public authorities. Unfortunately, the government parties have done the opposite. First of all, there is the breaking of the electoral promises that we have already talked about a few times. Everyone, every party, has said that they will retain the statutory retirement age. A year later, without debate with the new Pension Committee, a reform must be rushed through this Parliament with elements that will only be in force in 2025. Pension measures are selective and entail a social decline. This government demands heavy efforts from workers and holds the stick firmly for those who do not follow. Support measures are hardly available. We were talking about it earlier. The increase in retirement age to 67 years, without first making workable work, is likely to be a pointless delay for many. A few additional years in unemployment rather than a well-earned pension. With the abolition of the pension bonus, the government takes away any incentive to work any longer. The Council of State also considers that there is a possibility of a deterioration in social rights and asks a number of questions. You may be able to answer it again later, Minister. During the discussion in committee we did not receive those answers. The social decline has an impact on women in particular. Mr De Coninck will discuss this further. In particular, transparency is lacking: what impact does it have on who? This certainly applies to women, but there are also no guarantees regarding the employment of over 50 people. I will not repeat the previous debate. What will happen to those workers who have broken down, are low-skilled, and to whom employers do not offer any prospects? I'd like to quote another grade. Recent research has shown that the probability of a job interview for fifty-five+ was therefore not 12.5 %. The odds of that following work were another half. On a hundred people, there are barely six fifty-five people who have a chance of getting a new job. This government doesn't do anything about it. The proposals put forward by the Pension Committee on social progress are missing. There is nothing to be found about the preservation of such periods. There is nothing to be found on the second pillar bis for public contracts. About the process of reform plus involvement of the social partners in the Pension Committee with its own powers: nothing to be found. Ladies and gentlemen, the benefit ratio which must remain within a certain range is very important. The pension committee was also very formal about this. We must ensure that we offer young people today the prospect of a good pension. A good pension is a pension proportional to the career and wages they have received. This too is totally lacking in the reform you are proposing here, ladies and gentlemen. The prosperity of pensions and a revaluation of previous wages, nothing at all. A progressive tax on the second pension pillar, nothing like that. Measures to enable longer working hours are not taken at all. However, they are possible. You have abolished the pension bonus, but there are, of course, other measures that have been proposed by the committee, among others. For example, employees can be motivated by giving them an individual right to training, four days and five days for those over the age of 45. Workers can be given the opportunity to adjust their working hours and to support companies that reduce the working hours of older workers. We can improve working conditions for older workers by introducing a mandatory work plan for all older workers, which is another proposal by Mrs De Coninck. It is possible to reduce the loss of workers who have broken down and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the question of funding. Mr Van Quickenborne, I told you earlier, but I would like to quote it again. Piketty, who you probably don't appreciate very much, shows in his last book that the share of one percent of the most wealthy in national income increases naturally because the return on their capital is higher than the return that one earns from labour. This means that the ability to increase exponentially is much faster than for those who earn their money by going to work. If tax measures are taken to ensure that the income of the wealthiest would rise at the same rate as the income of the people who are going to work, they will generate about 4% of gross domestic product on the basis of short-term forecasts. Colleagues, that is the equivalent of our ageing costs. It can be said that it will be priceless, that it will not be financially viable, but it will clearly be financially viable for the future. Again, we only assume that people who count on their wealth make as much profit as those who live on wages, from their labor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a number of proposals to improve this pension reform. We have tabled a number of amendments. I won't go over them all, but I'll go over a few. I'm sure you'll approve of them if you think logically. Firstly, to organise entry into force only after the list of heavy-duty professions has been established by the National Pension Committee. Secondly, the extension of the time-credit. Thirdly, extending the right to training by four days a year. It is also about the reintroduction of the pension bonus, a retirement career of 42 years, Mr Van Quickenborne, and an annual evaluation by the National Pension Committee. Finally, there is something that we have also discussed this morning, in particular to bring the parliamentary retirement age into line with that of the private sector. If we are to take measures for the private sector, we may also have to impose them on ourselves. Mr van Quickenborne, you said earlier that workers should be obliged to do a number of things. So that is also a proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I will leave it at that and just draw my conclusions. The increase in the statutory retirement age is a broken electoral promise. The increase in the statutory retirement age is not a proposal from the Committee of Experts and is not blissful. There is, however, a proposal from the pension committee in conjunction with the career. That is exactly what the Planning Bureau and the ageing committee are saying. That is what is missing from your proposal. Any positive policy to work longer simply lacks. Pensions must remain affordable. I have just indicated how this can be done, but you refuse to do so. You would rather make it as you have decided for the budget with the families. These reforms are bric-à-brac and happen every time in pieces. There is no perspective on the overall pension reform: where do we want to go in the long term? The debate on the heavy professions remains to be held. Minister, that means that you will have to amend your bill by December. I don't think this is good governance. For a number of workers, this increase in retirement age is very fragile. Not to mention: teachers, from pre-school to higher education, will have to work considerably longer with your proposals. Finally, women have a huge disadvantage. Mr. Secretary, if you want people to work longer, do your job. My two fellow Members will be discussing this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I still have the hope of making part of the debate superfluous and able to get to the essence rather quickly. However, previous statements have shown that this has not really been achieved. However, there is a consensus in this House on a number of issues. So we need to get past these things and talk about other things. For example, I believe that there is little discussion that the costs of ageing will increase and that these costs will effectively affect our social security systems and our public finances. These costs can be reduced by working longer. That's obvious, too. So working longer is part of the solution. It is also clear that everyone must make an effort. There is also a consensus on this. I had hoped that we would be able to pass through these matters in today's debate and talk about the matters that are still on the move, the matters on which this draft law is not conclusive. I would like to ask the government, now that we all know what the next step is. What's the next move? How do you make that work longer? The debate should be about that. Is that what you're doing by raising your retirement age alone? I wish it was that simple, wasn't it? Unless you really think that it is enough to raise the retirement age with a drawing of pens and that everyone will be able to stay on for longer. However, there will be no answers to these questions. The story of the majority then falls silent and your house of cards collapses. I have three questions for the government, three questions that have remained with me after the debates in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u75	A first question is still why you cheated on your constituents. In all the debates before the 2014 elections, there was sometimes a naughty moderator who dared to ask you whether, if you were in the government, you would raise your retirement age to 67 years. Mr Vuye, the reply of your chairman and, Mr Vercamer, of you and your fellow MEPs from CD&V, was always that you would not do that. However, just a few months after these debates and after all the fine stories to the public and to your constituents, who have gone along with your answer, you decide once again with the same phrase to raise the retirement age to 67 years. That's electoral deception. You have not indicated the increase you are making in any election debate. She's not on your election program either. You have not at any time informed the electorate that you would increase the retirement age from 2020-2025 and that he would better prepare himself for that. You haven't said that at any time. On the contrary, you have always stated that you would close the gap between the age of 59 and the statutory retirement age of 65. That's honorable. There is also a consensus on this. That other scenario, that doom scenario as it were, you have not dared at any time explain to your voter. So what's changed? I don't know. Why did you commit that electoral deception? I don't know. That's my first question. My second question is what you will do if the social dialogue on the heavy professions fails. After all, we held hearings on that point in committee. To be honest, it is not clear to the social partners. We have heard them in committee. The gap between employers and employees is fairly large when it comes to pensions. You know that. After all, you were also present. Nevertheless, you transfer that hot potato to them. Is that because you do not come to a consensus internally? The point is now with the social partners. They can get to work. My question is, however, what will you do if the social dialogue on the heavy professions fails? After all, you are now intertwining it. However, the people with a heavy occupation remain orphaned. They must be comforted by the promise that the problem will be settled later between the social partners. What happens, however, if this consultation fails? Are we going to go to the Dutch model? In the Netherlands, too, the retirement age was increased to 67 years, with the promise that a heavy-duty scheme would follow. But none of that came into the house. As a result, people have to work there up to the age of 67, regardless of the job they do. That scenario also lurks around the corner, thanks to Open Vld, CD&V and N-VA. Longer working is part of the solution to keep social security affordable. There is no discussion on this. We regret, however, that the N-VA government is rapidly introducing an increase in the retirement age without first considering workable work. The cart gets tense for the horse. I hope we all know that this doesn't make any sense. A distinction between the different situations in the workplace is nothing more than a question of common sense. I'm thinking about people in the healthcare sector, people in construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u76	Mr De Vriendt, if we start working in the private sector today at 23 years, and we want a full career of 45/45, how long will we have to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u77	You have the table. I don't have the table on your own pension reform right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u78	If someone at 23 starts working in the private sector and wants a full pension of 45/45, how long does he or she have to work today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u79	You're part of the majority. Then answer that. You know your own pension regulations, don't you? What's the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u80	I'll give you the answer. He has to work in the private sector today for up to 68 years if he wants a pension of 45/45 today. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u81	What's your point?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u82	I can't believe you're fooling people like something new is happening today. Nothing new is emerging today. We also have to work 45/45 today and within five years next year. What is a statutory pension in the private sector for? Can you explain that to me, Mr De Vriendt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u83	Mr Vercamer, you are making the same error of reasoning as Mr Van Quickenborne. You're talking about 45 years to get a full pension. What this government is doing, what is changing, is raising the early retirement age. You're not gonna deny that, are you? This will be put into effect from 2017. That is what is actually changing. That's going to be phased out, six months more each time. Apart from the amount of pension that people can get, it is true that this pension reform will only allow people to retire later, both with a fixed pension and with an early retirement. That changes, Mr Vercamer. It is not the amount of pension, it is the retirement age. When it comes to retirement age, we must distinguish between the different situations in the workplace. That makes sense to me. People in the care sector or in construction, people in heavy occupations: for us, workable work must be part of any pension reform. It starts in the workplace. I would like to put a third question to the representatives of the government. What have you done to create a basis for your pension reform? Indeed, it is essential to support such an important social task. That reminds me of the liberal trade union, who literally said at the committee hearings that he was happy to be able to explain this. So, a union, a social partner, finally comes to Parliament at opposition pressure and shows that he is happy to finally enter into dialogue with politics. Why do you not find such a statement a problem, Mr Vercamer? You're a member of the civil society. You know the social partners very well. Do you not mind if someone from that same center tells you to be happy that they can come and explain sometime? That's no way to implement a pension reform, is it? That's not a social contract. A social contract means giving and taking. So people expect them to get something in return for that legitimate effort to work longer, which they're willing to do. But what do they get in return? Has anything been said about the level of their pension? No. Has anything been said about the pension points system? The pension points are in the government agreement and Minister Bacquelaine has made an interesting statement on this. On 24 June at 3 a.m. 21 p.m., you said that the pension points for you are the basis of the reform. If that is the case, why is this pension not regulated on the basis of points? If that is the base on which other matters rest, why are you taking one of these other things away from the base, namely the increase in retirement age? Then why do you not do anything about what you yourself call the basis of the pension reform, namely the pension points? The pension points, colleagues, are floating around. Another thing that floats in the dark and yet very closely ties in with retirement ages is the part-time pension. The government increases the retirement age, but at the same time provides for a part-time pension in its coalition agreement. That's interesting. Do you not find that interesting, Mr Vercamer, a part-time pension? I always like to hear about social matters, including defence, but don't you find it interesting to have a part-time pension? You're nodding in agreement, and that's good. I find that interesting, too. When it comes to retirement ages and when people can retire, do you not think that this part-time pension should be incorporated into the exercise we are doing here? Part-time pension, the level of pension points: there is much that should be included in a global pension reform. It's those things floating around that create uncertainty among people. However, giving certainty to people is an important value in politics, even for someone who is rarely here, namely Bart De Wever. Bart De Wever excels in absence for the umpteenth time, we know that. This time there's no Villa Politica, so he certainly can't be in front of the camera. Mr Demir, that truth may well be said. There was a lot of people here today, there is always a lot of people here, but one person is almost never here: Bart De Wever. He did make an interesting statement, though. I would like to have a debate with him on this in Parliament, but unfortunately that is not possible. I'm always here, it's not me. What did Bart De Wever say? It was about the company cars. Listen carefully, colleagues, about security and the pension system. What did he say about the company cars to the owners of commercial cars? The system of commercial vehicles, the tax subsidies for traffic jams in our country, was a taboo for Bart De Wever and the N-VA. Why don't they touch that? Because owners of company cars rest and want security. Continuing a pension reform of the Di Rupo government in the very short term, breaking election promises, raising retirement ages and not giving security to people in heavy professions, that is possible. The peace and security for the owners of commercial vehicles are worth more than the peace and security for people who retire, for people at the end of their careers. That's the only conclusion I can draw. When we talk about security, there is, of course, the pension engine. Mr Vercamer and Mr Terwingen know them. We have already had quite a lot of debates on it. It is about the idea that people need to see the pension they can expect later, depending on the career choices they make. I admit it's complex matter. It is also about mixed careers, for example. During the previous period of government, we have been fooling around with this. At some point, the website was completely flat. The pension engine can provide security. Are we waiting to implement the pension reform? No. The pension engine, as we can read in the report of our hours of discussions in committee, will not be operational until the end of 2016. Once again, the assurance is given that people's retirement age will be increased, but not that they will have a view of their pension, that they will know the consequences of the career choices they make. In fact, we are asking the government to increase its empathy for people who read the newspapers and to determine what this government intends to do. People need clarity and recognition of the simple fact that not everyone can continue to work for up to 67 years. Politicians of the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld sweep it under the mat. That is not only strange but also frightening. It reminds me of the things that are yet to come. If you feel so little about social reality in the workplace, if you pass that hot potato on to the social partners, then we can expect many things from that same logic. What else is coming? I see it as our task to explain the need for reform, but in an intelligent and feasible way. If that is the job of the opposition today, then that is our job. Then that's okay at all. If it is our duty to explain that we are prepared to reform, but in a sensible, social, realistic way, then we are happy to take on this task. One thing I know, chasing things through really doesn't help anyone. Moreover, I have noticed a few things from the debates over the last few weeks and months, and I would like to go over them briefly. Firstly, there is a huge gap between the social partners. I noticed that in committee too. I will move on quickly, because it is not intended to repeat much here, but there are still shared interests. This has just been discussed in the debate with Mr Van Quickenborne. There must be a shared interest between an employer and an employee to keep people working in a healthy way. Why is it so hard to admit that not everyone can stand to work longer? I am looking at the employers, but I am also looking at the workers' organisations. I would ask them to admit and acknowledge that longer work is part of the solution. Why can we not unite these two poles in order to achieve a story in the greatest possible consensus? I do not want to be naive; an absolute political consensus on such a thing may not be achieved. However, we should have more support than is the case today, because today this country is divided, not only on the tax shift but certainly also on the pension reform, when I really believe that there are shared interests. Secondly, I note that no one in the government can say so far how many people have to work longer after this pension reform. That wasn't calculated. The ACV has rightly complained about this in committee. Mr Vercamer, you know the ACV. I was on the committee when it complained that the government did not calculate the pension reform. The government's answer was that it is unable to deliver those elements and that it is now going to move them back to the National Pension Committee, to the knowledge centre, which can make an effort to do so. I have already mentioned the budgetary impact of this pension reform. You always refer to the 1.7 % savings in GDP between 2014 and 2060. That is, of course, because you take out the pension reform in isolation and do not take into account the impact on the other branches of social security, on disability, sickness and unemployment. On page 157 of the report, you admit that you have no idea of possible budgetary shifts in social security and you say that the knowledge centre should do so. A third observation from the debates in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment is that, on a number of points, the government goes beyond the consensus between the social partners. For a number of points there was social dialogue and the social partners reached a consensus. You have shown this, but in a number of areas the government has done so. Let me give you an example. It is about people in the notice period, who are allowed to take up the pension under the current conditions, so not under the terms of the new scheme, if the notice period has started before 9 October 2014. That is the cesorship, which is the central point imposed by the government in this bill. This means, of course, that people who have taken up their notice after 9 October 2014 are actually screwed up and are no longer covered by the old pension regulations. Mr Vercamer, what did the social dialogue say? I am addressing CD&V because I find the opinion of CD&V bizarre in this and yet important. The social dialogue was unanimous, all the social partners were unanimous that the hinge could be perfect on 1 January 2015. Perhaps you could explain to me why the government decides to make it stricter after all? You're a member of a government party, aren't you? That's something I'm missing. A fourth observation. One thing we have all learned from the debates is that the pension committee is being abused by this government. The Pension Committee is a notable institution, which also has an impact on the social debate on pensions. They get in the press all the time, and that's good. Their experts are also coming to this house. However, the pension committee is being abused by the government. That has become clear in the discussion we have had in committee and the government has actually admitted it. In the explanatory memorandum, the Government stated that raising the retirement age to 67 years would be a recommendation of the Pension Commission. Minister, you know that. We've been pinging about that for a long time, back and forth. In the end, you have had to admit and the chairman of the committee, Vincent Van Quickenborne, has said that we should interpret that differently. It was indeed not a recommendation. The government has been saying for weeks and months, including in the press, that raising the statutory retirement age to 67 years is a recommendation from the Pension Commission, quot non. So do not rely on institutions to give your pension reform authority if that is not true. As far as the pension committee is concerned, you have also done cherry picking. That's very clear. You have drawn up a number of proposals and you have left a number of others. The Pension Commission also states that we need to move towards more alternative financing of our pensions, i.e. more capital tax to pay pensions. However, you have wisely left that out of your pension reform and even out of your tax shift. You had a second seat today to take it with you anyway, and so you are also cocked into second seat. The recommendation to raise the retirement age to 67 years has therefore never been made by the Pension Committee. That is clearly an abuse. The pension committee has also actually said that there is a second way to strengthen the budgetary balance, in particular by increasing the level of activity of the 15 to 64-year-olds. Even without adjusting the retirement age, there will be more social contributions and a better payment of the pension bill. However, we have not yet seen any real measures to increase this level of effectiveness. My fifth observation, ladies and gentlemen, is that the transitional measures provided for by the government are sometimes incomprehensiblely strict. That's why people fall out of the boat for no good reason. I refer to the disponibility in the public sector. We have also discussed this. Disponibility in the public sector should allow those concerned to take up their retirement pension afterwards. The aim is to ensure that this is closely linked. However, when the rules of the game, namely the age of boarding for the pension, change, people who are already in disponibility may get into trouble. They are, after all, under the assumption that they will be able to retire after their disponibility. However, if you move the boarding age before the pension, there will be a gap for those concerned in disponibility. You have worked out a transitional measure, but that transitional measure is not ideal. I would like to refer briefly to page 166 of the report, in which the debate on disponibility is presented. This shows that you hold on to the date of 1 January 2015 as a hinge moment. However, people who, for example, went into disponibility or applied in January 2015 could not yet know that today, 23 July 2015, we would adopt this bill. So they fall out of the boat and fall into a hole. We discussed this in committee, but there was no answer from the government to the question as to why it made that choice. I thought at some point that the government stated that it was a political choice to do so. However, we have tried to argue in substance that it would be useful to put the hinge moment on today or on 1 January 2016 in order to build in some margin. The penultimate observation we have learned from the discussions is that the government remains committed to the traditional concept of retirement age. I shall move on quickly, we have just had the debate. We need to focus on the length of the career, namely 42 years worked or career years worked. As a safety valve, we use a retirement age of 65 years to give people with short careers the opportunity to retire. It seems, however, that the majority do not intend to go that way. She is still holding on to those retirement ages, which is a missed opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the last observation is a special one, because it gives an insight into the future debates. People who are in a heavy occupation suffer a disadvantage as a result. After all, it is not obvious for people to engage in a heavy occupation. The question is how this disadvantage is compensated. In that case, there are two possibilities. Either people in the heavy professions can retire earlier, or people in the heavy professions have to stay at the same age as everyone else, but get a higher pension, a scenario that we do not prefer and which we find worrying. We have had a number of debates in committee. The hearings made it very clear that it is a thought that the employers' organisations are putting forward. Both VBO and UNIZO have said that people in heavy professions should not stop so much earlier, but should receive a higher pension. Our position is clear. I hope that you will join us, Mr Vercamer, so that CD&V can do something social and just. People with heavy work must be given the right to either leave early, or to move on to less heavy work. That is a simple and justifiable position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u84	I am looking at you, Mr Vercamer. I'm not going as far as Bruno Tobback, who said, "Kris Peeters, we're counting on you." I will not say: "Stefaan Vercamer, we are counting on you." However, I would like to draw your attention to a quote by Egbert Lachaert from Open Vld, who said in De Standaard on 9 June: "Employers must reorient workers, instead of automatically sending them to early retirement." That is assuming that the list of heavy-duty professions will be effective. If this is not the case, we must also consider, within the pension debate, setting aside the fixation on heavy-duty professions. A majority politician, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, who has also been involved in the pension debate and is therefore the spokesperson of Open Vld in this area, actually replied to my question just now to Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Sonja Becq: what if the social partners fail to reach agreement on the heavy professions? The answer of Egbert Lachaert then reads: 'Maybe we should let go of the fixation on heavy professions'. In other words, nothing, nothing. I'm just reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u85	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u86	Again, I am not going to say: I am counting on you. I'd say do your best to get Egbert Lachaert to think better. If you don't, we'll do it, of course. Those words as an introduction, ladies and gentlemen. Let me now turn to the question of the heavy professions. It can of course be said that the current pension reform includes something for people with heavy professions. People who have started working in the past can, for a certain part, retire earlier. After all, there is a link between retirement age and career, but not everyone in a long career has a hard job. For those people, we have to do something. I believe that additional proposals are needed, otherwise the whole operation will be a measure of nothing. I would like to quote François Perl from the RIZIV: What is saved on bridge pensions and unemployment, is simply spent back in health insurance. Government reforms will increase the cost of health insurance by 30% or so by the end of this legislature by EUR 2 billion. Then it comes: "If the retirement age is raised and the burgeoning pension is increased, more people fall into disability." Physically and mentally they just don't get their pension. That's the RIZIV's warning. We will therefore have to do something to enable the workable work to be done. We must do this partly through a renewed labour market policy and not just through a pension policy. You do not have the authority to do so, partly by Minister Peeters and partly by the regions, but this should have been done in parallel. A labour market policy comes at the source, a pension policy only at the end of the career. More specifically, it should be about improving the content of work, organisation of work, working time arrangements, training opportunities, opportunities to change jobs and jobs. For my group, the starting point is a career policy that has the ambitious objective of making maximum adjustments to heavy work. This requires, on the one hand, best practices among employers and companies. Then it's about human resources. On the other hand, legislative work is also needed. We have just been asked what our alternative is. We have given an alternative to career life, 42 career years, but legislative initiatives are needed. I would like to list some of them. Why should we not be able to develop a simple instrument measuring the working capacity of employees and self-employed people, where the social partners closely monitor the development of a neutral instrument, indicating when the individual working capacity of a person no longer meets the expectations of the job and the working environment. It should also be about smarter work, where the Minister only signs and approves Actually, it would be good to work on workable work. The right of workers to five days of training per year must also take account of the age pyramid. As Mrs De Coninck said, training within the company should also benefit people of older age. That is often not the case now. Often they fall out of the boat. However, they need to be permanently formed in order to stay at work longer. Finally, there is the problem of the savings made by this and the previous government in terms of time credits and runways. However, they also ensure that people stay longer on the job. If you allow people to slow down their careers at a certain time, they are more likely to be able to work longer at the end of their career. That is why we need not only a pension committee, but also a career committee. This is not yet another call for a committee to be set up. The pension committee did work and delivered good reports. She is meddling in the debate and is an inspiration for our work. However, the same work must also be done for the careers, ideally integrated with the pension committee, because one cannot be seen separately from the other. Such a career committee should proceed in the same way, with academics, experts, final reports and so on, in parallel with the pension committee. This is how we move towards a global, integrated pension reform. The discussion about heavy-duty professions is also very interesting. After all, are we going to take on heavy professions or are we going to take on heavy work? Mr Van Quickenborne was right just now when he said that a profession was not a static one. A profession evolves through technological progress, automation and so on. If an appeal to a particular moment is heavy, it may be less heavy a year later. In the meantime, however, this government has instructed the social partners to draw up a list of heavy-duty occupations. I hope they won't be locked in in a false logic. I hope you will deal with this later, Minister. Isn't it better to look at jobs than to look at heavy-duty occupations? Is the profession of a police officer a serious occupation, as Mr Van Quickenborne pointed out as an example? If we ask the social partners to draw up lists of heavy-duty professions, are we not running the risk that this is a dead end street that will teach us little? I think that we should rather rely on hard work and on a number of criteria or factors which lead to job shortening or even making sick. Some functions or some jobs are indeed career shortening or sickening. We can then talk about the issues raised in the bridge pension system, the well-known issues: night work, shiftwork, interrupted timetables, but also back straining work, work in extreme heat or extreme cold, work with low autonomy, which contributes to burn-out and the like. The studies are well known. We may then have to evolve into a system in which someone who does heavy work gets to the reference career faster and either has to move faster towards less heavy work at the end of the career, or even in the career tout court, or can leave the labour market early. I should like to leave it at that, ladies and gentlemen. We missed a chance. We have not exhausted the debates, we have started too late and have locked ourselves in the classic left-wing legal schemes: the one do not want to know about longer work, the other do not want to know about workable work. That's too bad. We all need to be able to recognise that longer work is needed, but that this must be done in a workable way. There would have been much more in this, we could have voted on a much better bill today. Maybe the opposition would even have approved it, Mr Vercamer. Now, with CD&V, compared to the opposition, you will be the only group that will approve this bill on pension reform and work longer than 67 years. It's not your only defeat: look at the tax shift. I would ask you to reflect, but also keep an eye on Egbert Lachaert. We will need that when we see what statements he makes about treated periods and about heavy work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with two very simple questions which should lead to very simple answers. Should pension reforms be implemented? The answer is very clearly yes! Would we have done so in the same way and would we have made the same political choices as those of the majority? The answer is clearly no! Many arguments were exchanged during the debates in committee; I will not go back to that. That is why I did not speak this afternoon in the debates. Indeed, it is not useful to repeat what has been said in committee. I would like to draw four lessons from the policy choices that have been made with regard to pensions. First, you say exactly the opposite of what you said before and even after the elections. Indeed, between September and early October 2014, just ten months ago, almost unanimously, you said you did not want to reduce the pension age. Over the last few weeks, as if all macroeconomic parameters had changed incredibly, you have justified, with an incredible cap and with the same arguments, the thesis totally inverse of that of ten months ago. I'm a scientist, not a lawyer, and I don't understand. In mathematics, one plus one equals two but when one uses an argument to support a thesis and then his antithesis, I do not find myself there anymore. At the time, you refused European benchmarking because the Belgian situation was not comparable. You said that the legal age of the pension should not be reduced because, today, the effective age of departure is 59. You were still right. You said that the employment rate between the ages of 50 and 55 or between the ages of 60 and 65 was the priority. You were still right. These are arguments that you put forward before and after the elections. The citizens believed you. It's a bad thing they took it. This is the first and most beautiful lesson heard on: how to say everything and its opposite on the basis of the same arguments. The second lesson I draw is the failure of the government to achieve a sufficiently broad acceptance of the population, when all the experts of the Vandenbroucke Commission have said that this is a sine qua non for successful pension reform. And it was possible. I will illustrate this by taking a European example, which you should like – since you are a Swedish government – that is, Sweden that you often talk about. A few years ago, the Swedes achieved an extremely broad consensus with the social partners on an ambitious pension reform. This reform was not only a pleasant and sympathetic one. They have achieved this in such a way that they have been able to reach a majority/opposition consensus in parliament. This gave them a very broad societal base. This is how it is ultimately possible to make a dossier a real success. As far as pensions are concerned, you are loudly shouting that in the twenty-first century we must work to rule by force is no longer being done. If you don't do anything to ensure that people are able to work, if you don't do anything to adjust career ends, if you don't take into account that a 55, 60, 63 year old is getting tired and experiencing some fatigue in some professions, it won't work. At the very least, it is necessary to take into account the need to relieve some people and to get them to work longer. I am among those who believe that a significant and even significant part of the population would agree to work longer but provided that career ends are adapted and arranged. The failure of this broad support and societal consensus is the second lesson I have learned. This brings me to the third lesson, which is probably the most important. You confuse reforms, it is indeed indispensable, with brutality. You're leading a tough policy. You're tightening the screw. You adopt the policy of the stick by forgetting or removing anything that can, in one way or another, cause citizens to work longer. So, you delete the pension bonus. You postpone discussions on difficult jobs to an indefinite date. You make it impossible or almost impossible to take into account long careers. You do not anticipate any adjustments to career ends, although they are essential. Women will be penalized even more. You even pushed the vice – I ask you to excuse me for using this term, but it's the one I find most appropriate – until I ignore the impact on women of your pension reform, even though the gender mainstreaming law that was passed required you to take it into account. I will not read to you here the measure relating to this impact that you have imagined in a rush, not to say sloppy. And now you decide that the impact of the measure on women will still have to be measured. This is, in any case, a point on which we will have obtained an advance from you, even if it would have been better to make this decision earlier. Let me, at this point, stop for a second on the question of families. As far as survival pensions are concerned, a first step had been taken, and you are stepping up decisions that have not even yet come into force. Here too, for example, the situation of children, especially minor children, could have been taken into account, particularly in the context of the problem and reality of widows who can receive a survivor's pension or a transitional allowance. I believe that the inclusion of children would have been an important element in maintenance cases. I have tabled amendments to that effect here. This would have been a reflection of difficult situations and would have allowed you to avoid the brutality that you are going to apply. The fourth and final lesson I learn is that you are presenting this reform as a great measure that will both increase the purchasing power of pensioners and save pensions and enable their viability. As far as the first aspect is concerned, although I have read your bill again, not a single clause, not a single allusion, neither close nor far, does it lock or provide very clearly for an increase in the amount of pensions. Is it worth repeating that the pension replacement rate in Belgium is the lowest or one of the lowest at European level? It's an important element. You also describe your reform as a great measure that will save pensions and ensure their viability. Let me quote Jean Hindriks, as I have done many times in committee. I have also heard you quote him, Minister. It's obviously an author you trust. So you will not accuse me of opposition for the mere pleasure of the opposition. What does Jean Hindriks say? "An increase in the pension age is not a guarantee of an extension of the career term." That's right. It should also be recalled that the Pension Reform Commission has clearly shown that the decline in the legal age will lead to a sharp increase in parallel exits from the labour market, 40 to 60% towards unemployment, time credit and career interruption, 10 to 15% towards disability, making the reform desired – I always quote the experts of the Pension Reform Commission – "totally ineffective". These figures are implacable. There are others. It should also be noted that between 2009 and 2013, there was a 17% increase in the number of people who had received a sickness benefit and a 22% increase in the number of people who were unable to work for medical reasons. You will reply to me, referring to the 2015 report of the Study Committee on Ageing, that this report is correct. But nothing is less sure! If I do an analysis of it, you will say that the opposition is opposed! It is therefore more relevant to share with you the analysis of Itinera Institute about this report. Is he right? Not really! That's the least we can say! I will not quote it in its entirety, but Itinera Institute believes that the effects of this 2015 report of the Study Committee on Ageing are totally overstated with regard to a wide range of information. These elements came to us after the committee meeting. Thus, the Study Committee on Aging is making the assumption of a net migration of 1.35 million people by 2060 – I don't know if everyone has heard me – of which 360,000 between 2015 and 2025. In order to validate these figures, he considers that these migrants will find a job from the outset. I do not have the impression, in looking at the different policies of the government, that you favour this type of policy. This evidence alone demonstrates in a significant way that the numbers of the Review Committee on Ageing are clearly overvalued. The second example is the assumption on which the Committee is based. The latter considers that an increase of two years in the retirement age implies an average carry-over of two years of actual retirement. However, a study by the KUL in the Netherlands shows that an increase in the legal age from 65 to 67 is only three months, on average, delaying retirement. The Study Committee on Ageing was therefore based on the fact that Belgium was going to do eight times better than the Netherlands, even though the Netherlands had a much more dynamic labour market than ours. It is also based on assumptions about the hiring rates of 55-65-year-olds, when we know that they are particularly low at home: lower than Greece, an interesting example in the context we live in. Finally, Itinera Institute also points – and this is the essential point for me – to the fact that without age-related human resources management, the tightening of pension rules will result in a transfer of pension expenditure to those of the policy of sickness and disability. Your government and you in this case, Minister, have focused on the legal age of pension, where the most crucial challenge is first and foremost to keep those who want to leave at work longer, to raise the actual pension age that is now 59, but also to allow citizens, workers to stay at work longer by means of end-of-care arrangements, for example, by reducing their working time by one and two days a week. It is every benefit to always benefit from their experience, from the transmission of their knowledge to the younger generations. That is the meaning of the alternative proposals that I have tabled. They're effective. It is sufficient to cite an example in the field of health care. Thanks to the self-funded system of reducing working time at the end of a career with an obligation to replace by young people, by connecting the older worker and the young worker, the rate of early retirement from nursing pensions has clearly and significantly decreased. For us, therefore, the urgency is there, in raising the effective retirement age to the pension, with a reduction in the working time intensity of career ends, with greater flexibility at that time so that these workers can also have time to do something else. The urgency is for us in the measures that will allow companies to retain or even hire people over the age of 55, as many policies as you will postpone until later, without knowing if you will succeed. The urgency is there – as you have understood – in the articulation of employment and pension policy. It seems to us that you are passing next to the essentials. For the doctor I am and for the doctor you are, minister, it's a bit like you're administering a very bitter drug, with very important side effects, even though you know it's not the right treatment because it's the one that doesn't treat. Like, it's a big deal for the doctor you are. Colleagues, we will not vote on this bill. We have again tabled a whole series of amendments, some of which have already been tabled in committee and others which we tabled for the first time in plenary. Unfortunately, since I do not doubt for a moment the openness you will show with regard to these amendments, my conclusion will be as follows: you confuse reform with brutality; you confuse reform with discouragement of citizens, without even aiming for efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u88	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have been discussing proposals for pension reform. These are important proposals which are supposedly based on the proposals of the Pension Committee. This story is important for the following reason. Pensions have to do with people's past, especially their work history. Pensions also have to do with the future of people: what living conditions are created, what security of existence will exist after the professional career? In particular, people need to know in a transparent way what contribution they will have to make to guarantee their future. That is why this story has been said a few times here today, a story of citizens' confidence in politics, but also of trust in the social partners. It is therefore very important to stress that I am sorry that Mrs Becq is not here because she has also put the emphasis on communication, consultation, acceptance and, above all, the real implications of these decisions for people's lives every day. At this last point, this draft is somewhat inadequate. We see very little of that review. I'm sorry about that. I have asked the people I know whether they know what will be decided, whether they know the implications of what will be decided. Mrs Becq said it, people know very little about it. The Council of State has also said that there is very little transparency. If the Council of State already thinks so, then what should the ordinary people in the street find of that? If we implement the proposals in reality, I can conclude that we are moving towards dualisation in the pension landscape. On the one hand, there will be pensioners who can retire earlier than 67 years, especially because they have had a sustainable career. They've had a good job, they've never been fired, they've never been sick and they haven't had a break from work. They are usually people with a higher pension, people with a second or even third pillar. Those are the lucky ones. On the other hand, there are pensioners who have to work until their 67th birthday. These are mainly people who have not had a sustainable career and will, above all, receive a low pension. These people have a bumpy career with part-time work, a career break due to illness, poor and flexible working conditions. They work early in the morning and late in the evening and have disease periods. It is precisely those people who will have to work for up to 67 years, who will have a low pension and who have the least prospect of a number of healthy years after retirement. Which people will that be in particular in that last group? They'll mostly be women. Hence the lemon story. I miss Mrs Becq. She was vestivally equipped to sit on our couches. These women often interrupt their careers for care and education.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u89	Mrs Becq, I have just said that you would have been better on our benches, given the lemon debate. You'll agree with me. I don't like it myself. I once said that women had to work a little more. In practice, women often interrupt their careers for raising children or caring for elderly parents or family members. If they have continued to work full-time with a family and children, then those women have a double day job. Why don't we give these women five extra bonus years? After all, they had to work twice in the end. I know men often don't realize that, but that's the reality. Women are also often involved in careers, such as cashiers and cleaning women, in which they have no choice to work full-time, in which they have to work part-time in flexible systems. As a result, at the end of their career, they are punished by having to work for up to 67 years. We also see women from 45 years of age, especially in jobs for which one should be a bit beautiful, being expelled. As far as those heavy-duty jobs are concerned, it's not just men who do physically heavy-duty jobs. On the contrary, if I look at how dock workers used to work and carry bags, they now have a lot of tools. However, if you have to work as a cleaning lady with service cheques up to 67 years old, full-time, I want to see a lot of people do that here. There are not many tools there, in large companies, but not in housekeeping. It is also often women who stand alone with children. People break up and men often leave their children behind. In order to be able to do a full-time job in those circumstances, women certainly need child care. However, child care becomes very expensive and is often not available. There are also women who care for their elderly or sick parents. This is also something that has not been looked at in the debate on ageing populations, not even in the debate on the bridge pension. There are many women, many young pensioners, who say they are the sandwich generation. They take care of their grandchildren and their parents. If they all have to work for up to 67 years, there will be an expensive problem there. We will then need more rest homes and more childcare. These are aspects of the ageing population that do not appear in this story. I am not going to make it any longer, because there have just been very extensive explanations. There is a decision that I find truly appalling, namely the decision to increase the age of boarding for the survivor's pension. The previous government has taken it from 40 to 45 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u90	Actually, I thought that was the limit. However, in the proposals that will be voted on today, we are talking about an increase in the age of entry by ten years. This means 55 years before one can get a survivor's pension in the event of the partner's death. You make that decision. That's politics. I don't think you're communicating enough about that. What exactly do you decide? You de facto decide that there is no choice anymore to be a housewife or a man. Everyone has to work de facto. Imagine you're 54 years old and your husband dies, when you've always been a housewife. Then I challenge you to look for a job on your 54th because you are not yet entitled to a survivor's pension. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you want to create a basis for this, you will have to communicate, especially to the young women and men of today. They need to prepare for that. It's the same story for divorces, where men who have companies run off with the money and the property and leave the women with nothing, because they stayed home for the children. As former chairman of the OCMW of Antwerp, I have experienced many of these situations. So I'm not just talking in the dark. So, majority, communicate to men and women that they all have to work because there is no protection, unless the partner dies when they are over 55 years of age. I heard here today that the dogs bark and pass the caravan. It will be, but pay attention. They'll be in the woods. I warned you. Scandinavia is also often looked at. In Sweden, for example, life expectancy is in healthy 1970s for low-skilled people. This means the years in which one is healthy after retirement, on average up to 70 years. For us, this is an average of 65 years for low-skilled people. So one can perfectly say that one has to work up to 67 years, but one has to look at the average number of years in good health after the retirement age. Perhaps we should look at why there is a difference, but then we will have to think about living careers and then all initiatives on career breaks, on children's education and so on will have to be re-examined. I have heard here today that retirement must be an apple for thirst, not a lemon. Please communicate well to your constituents, because otherwise I fear you will have created a rotten apple.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u91	Mr President, in view of the speech made by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, who was very comprehensive and quite right, I can sum up the speech that my colleague Gilkinet, who is absent tonight, would have wished to make. Minister, the way you dealt with the pension issue is brutal, biased and incomplete. It is brutal because it ignores the foundations of the Belgian social dialogue, because it was not announced by any of the electoral programmes of the parties making up the majority, except the N-VA; because it will strike the workers, regardless of their situation or the length of their career. Among them, women will be affected again, as was the case in the previous reform under the Di Rupo government. It is also brutal because it has short-circuited all the usual mechanisms of negotiation and prior consultation. With regard to social consultation, if it took place, it was after the substantive options taken by the Government and on secondary points of the text. As for the opinion of the Council of State, it had to be delivered within five days and stressed, moreover, the risk of unconstitutionality of the text in view of the universal principle of the right to social protection, as set out in Article 23 of the basic text. That the previous reform was brutal is obviously not an acceptable and sufficient excuse. It is one-sided, because, among the ways in which the pension equation can be solved, it is only one: that of making future pensioners pay the weight of the system's sustainability by linearly reducing their future rights. In addition, it ignores alternatives, including those aimed at building strong alternative financing for our social security system, taking into account the evolution of wealth formation in our country and, in particular, the evolution of capital income relative to labour income. If those lucky enough to have work can hope to have higher pensions, as long as they survive at the end of their career, those who have been forced into an incomplete career – especially women – will find themselves with an even smaller pension than their current income. It is incomplete, because it should have dealt with, in conjunction with the question of increasing the length of the career or, at the very least of the actual career, that of the labour market. Adapting workplaces to changes in the physical and psychological skills of workers, taking into account the tenability of certain occupations or functions, sharing working time between young workers seeking entry into the labour market and older workers, who are often psychologically or physically tired and job-seekers, lead people to want to step up gradually. If these aspects had been taken into account, we could have avoided this linear increase in career duration, contrary to common sense, in a context of scarcity of employment, where it is a matter of sharing the work available rather than exhausting those who have the chance to have it. The time gap between the very hard measures and those necessary to mitigate their effects and to develop a more differentiated approach to the future of our pensions is unacceptable. Given the brutality, partiality and incompleteness of your reform, we will not be able to support it. We have tried, in the long parliamentary debate that has led today to correct your shot, to bring the missing dimensions to your work, but we bitterly regret the lack of listening and attention that the majority has shown in this emblematic debate, a majority that hurts the most fragile like young people and women and refuses to involve those who have more resources and who could preserve a model of a society that is solidarity and just. We have tabled a number of amendments to the text to try to bring it into line with its shortcomings and, above all, to synchronize the necessary reforms in the area of alternative financing of social security and the measures to be taken for the improvement of the labour market, which would be decided on for pensions. The majority rejected them, and we regret this lack of openness. If only one amendment were to be retained, it would be the one on the establishment of a Tandem Employment Plan, which was widely endorsed by the Council of State, apart from the regionalised employment policy aspects of the Sixth State Reform, which should be the subject of specific cooperation agreements. The Tandem Plan represents a modern way of looking at the labour market and of better sharing available work among older workers, sometimes physically and psychologically worn out, who wish to gradually lift their foot and reduce their working time and young workers who wish to benefit from initial work experience. This is all that the Tandem Plan has been implementing since the 2000s in non-market Francophone sectors such as youth support or nursing homes. Today we propose to duplicate it to all economic sectors. This Tandem plan is like a Swiss knife with several blades: it improves the career by allowing a better adaptation of the workplaces to the skills of the workers and thus their later exit, but in good conditions, from the labour market. It facilitates access to employment for young workers and thus reduces social security costs in the unemployment insurance component. It improves the employment rate and thus the financing of social security. It improves the performance of companies by allowing them to retain the experience of older workers within them while allowing young people to learn their jobs and benefit from the mentoring of their elders. It is a first achievement of what represents a major employment objective of environmentalists: sharing working time and improving the employment rate. If this Tandem plan does not address all pension issues, including the raising of the lowest pensions and employment, it is an otherwise more progressive and modern approach to this collective issue facing us. It is likely to build a lasting consensus on the future functioning of our system of solidarity, contrary to the reform decided by the current majority, which risks, on the contrary, undermining the confidence of our citizens in our system of solidarity. I thank you for your attention and, for the rest, I refer to Mr. From Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u92	Mr. Chairman, we have reached the final stage of this legislation aimed at getting workers up to 67 years of age, regardless of the occupational categories. I am going from the outset to submit something that bothers me very much: the idea that the right-wing parliamentarians, who are going to vote today to ask the workers to work up to 67 years, will be able to retire at 55 years of age. No one contradicts me! That document clearly states the following. I would like to read out Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure: Every former effective member of the pension fund of Members of Parliament shall be entitled to an interest and, where appropriate, to a retirement pension. In the case of validated mandates acquired until 31 May 2014 and acquired six days after 25 May 2014 and any period of part-time or retirement allowances granted in respect of the term of office acquired until 31 May 2014, this interest, if any, may start from the age of 55 years. This will be voted on today. Members of Parliament who are entitled to retire at the age of 55 adopt a law requiring workers and servants in that country to work up to the age of 67. That's what we're being offered today. Parliamentarians who can take their pension at age 55 will now vote on a bill to force workers, workers and employees in this country to work up to age 67. For the left man I am, this is unacceptable. It is easy when you have not worked on the chain, when you have not worked at the rate of 6 - 2, 2 - 10 the night to vote for the extension of career. It's easy! But in the field, it's quite something else. On the ground, many workers are tired. A lot of servants, a lot of workers in this country are tired. This is about a right to a pension, not an obligation. It's a right to retire. I will be told – and there the PTB feels unique in this opposition – that we still need to work longer. It's like a law of nature. The proof is we live longer. But when we analyze our social history, it's exactly because one day we decided to work less as long as our lives started to grow longer. It's because we don't work much longer than we live longer. Today, what the government is proposing is to take a big step backwards. That's a big step backwards. If productivity increases, knowing that we are producing more goods that could lead us to work less today, we are being asked to continue working. That is totally illogical! Between 1960 and today, we have increased the wealth produced in our country by a factor of 5. Each worker produces five times more wealth than in 1960. My steelmaker comrade in Liège, two weeks before the closure of ArcelorMittal, told me that 180 workers produced 480 tons of steel per hour at the Chertal site. In the 1980s they produced, with 450 workers, a little less than 220 tonnes of steel per hour at the Chertal site, i.e. three times as much steel in the same period of time. It's thanks to technology and science. In any society normally constituted, we should have a debate. What are we going to do with this increase in wealth? What are we going to do with an increase in productivity by factor 5? What shall we do with this wealth? Well, here it is decided that the workers and servants will work longer and longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u93	Thank you Raoul!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u94	Thank you very much to the public who came in numbers today. I'm glad to hear that. I come to the question, which often arises, of how pensions will be paid. There's got to be money, right? Firstly, there is, of course, a problem. There is no study to show that there will be more young people working longer than older people. Young people who want to find a job do not get a job because they are obliged to stay longer. I have often heard Sweden as an example here. Sweden would be the model. Sweden is the model! In Sweden, it is shown, supposedly, that by getting older people to work longer, young people have more jobs. Nothing is less true! I have here a picture which I have shown regularly to my colleagues and which shows exactly the opposite. This table shows the evolution of the youth unemployment rate in Sweden from the year 2000. It shows that in 2000, when the increase in career duration was introduced in Sweden, the unemployment rate among young people between 2000 and 2006, before the crisis, rose from 10% to 24%. The least we can say is that the Swedish example does not prove, contrary to what the right-wing is trying to make us believe, that getting older people to work longer makes it possible to put more young people to work. In the field, many elders see it. They would like to be able to give their jobs to younger people, but they cannot because they are asked to work longer and longer. Minister, I'm not going to go on forever because I've lost hope of convincing you. I thought my arguments were good, but it obviously doesn't fit. I no longer hope to convince you today, but I hope that the workers' movement will not weaken. As you know, on 7 October, many of us in Brussels will be demonstrating, as we did last year, but learning from the lessons of last year. Last year, you tried to make the workers' movement believe that there was room for negotiation. Today, it's clear, you want to go. You will dismember all the social gains of the workers, built after the Second World War: pension, right to unemployment, right to social security. It can make you laugh, but the workers don't laugh. That is why there will be a large number of workers on the streets of Brussels on 7 October, having learned the lessons of last year and having only one watchword left, that of taking you back. Your measures are downgraded, your measures will bring us back to the pre-Second World War period and we do not want them. Today, we produce a lot of wealth in our country, thanks to the workers, thanks to science, and it is time that this wealth goes back to the workers, to the pensioners, to the workers who contribute to the wealth of our country and not to a small handful of shareholders who don't care about working longer because they have enough money or a handful of parliamentarians who don't care because they can go to 55. Well, we're going to put an end to this! Together with the left-wing people, together with the workers, visit the streets of Brussels on 7 October to push back this government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u95	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw can only be expected to sit for a long time in this House, first because he is animating him with a certain talent; then, if he sits for a long time, he can say that he may have exceeded the legal retirement age by being in this House, which will be a consolation to him. My party had intellectual honesty, before the elections, and perhaps we were the only one on the francophone side, saying that postposing the retirement age was in itself neither a social nor a political scandal. Of course not under any condition or under any procedure. But because I believe that this debate deserved to be held in due course and with frankness and honesty before the voters. You can't stop me, minister, from recalling what others have said. Your party categorically refused to consider postponing the legal retirement age. Eight days before you took office, on a RTBF plateau, you were still very categorical. And to understand this turnaround or evolution, all this is due to a report that you would have discovered after the elections, almost after the government negotiation, which would have given you all of a sudden the illumination, the inspiration, the irresistible need to adapt the legislation. So I have reviewed the preparatory work and, in particular, Mr Clarinval's reasons in committee to justify this development. I would not allow myself to quote him if he was not present because I would not want him to be able to speak. I take up the three arguments he makes. I quote the report: "Mr. David Clarinval believes that it is more than time to take action to safeguard the pension system. This is currently being tested by a combination of three factors. First factor: the participation rate of 60-64 year olds in Belgium is below the OECD average, 18% in Belgium and 42% on average in the OECD." Mr. Clarinval, didn't you know before the election? Did you miss that? Second argument: "The constant increase in life expectancy at pension age. We have gone from a life expectancy of 3 years after retirement in the 1960s to 18 years now." Would you also ignore that argument before the elections? The third argument: "The average retirement age in Belgium is lower than the European Union average. For women, this average age is 58 years in Belgium for an average of 63 years in the EU. For men, this is 59 years and 64 years respectively. As a result, the budget cost increased from EUR 25 billion in 2006 to EUR 41 billion in 2014." I guess you knew that before the election, too. To tell you, when I hear the Prime Minister say: "We have a course. We know what objectives must be achieved. We, at least, know how to choose courage." Why didn't you have that courage before the election so that the voters would choose knowingly? So, that's right, we thought the legal retirement age had to be adjusted. And I would like to join Mrs Temmerman in saying that this is probably first of all a question of career duration and not of the legal age of retirement, even if we combine the argument of career duration, we inevitably manage to postpone the legal age of retirement. You mustn't hide it. When we read Mr Vandenbroucke's statements correctly, we realize that he was already moving in that direction. On the other hand – and on this point, I agree with several speakers – what is sorely lacking in your approach is that you have not thought, first of all, of a comprehensive reform of the pension system, as the Vandenbroucke Committee, the Committee of Experts, invites you to do. First, you have not considered labour market reform and, in particular, incentives to encourage the acceptance of career extension by older workers. At the same time, you have decided to raise the statutory retirement age, the early retirement age and to tighten up a number of conditions for access to it. You have removed the pension bonus, the time credit on a voluntary basis, the diploma bonus. You have removed all necessary measures to encourage workers to accept the extended duration of their working time. What is sorely lacking is this lack of a comprehensive strategy. I hear your argument, minister. You said you had three options for pension financing, either we decided to reduce benefits, but then we would have affected growth, or we decided to increase contributions, but in that case we would have reduced job creation, or we decided to make more people work, and that's the last solution we chose. That being said, you are right to say that, when benefits are reduced, purchasing power is affected in particular, which has the effect of affecting growth. But you didn't have the same reasoning when it came to index jumping. Still it is that, fundamentally, your global approach is lacking. What are the demands of the social partners and even the employers? In any case, the social partners ask for a stimulating framework, good practices to deal with the ageing of the workforce, such as adapting functions in companies or in public services, the possibility of acting as a tutor for beginners – an experience that has already proved its worth in Quebec –, better internal mobility, long-term management of careers, validation of skills, training throughout the career. According to a study conducted by human resources specialists, including a social secretariat, only 29% of workers feel that their company is making sufficient efforts to improve their employability. In the 50 and over age group, this figure falls to just 20%. Imposing reform without responding to these issues is unsatisfactory. This breaks confidence not only with the social partners, but also with the workers who question their end of their careers. You did not want to carry out a far-reaching social dialogue on this more comprehensive reform. You did not do so because you knew that you had hit a number of social partners at the same time. However, you know very well that your reform will have the effect of a certain risk of transfer to health insurance. You say it's a bad trial that's done to people, but it's not true. The risk is there. It has been mentioned on several occasions at the hearings organised by the Social Affairs Committee. Michel Jadot, of whom I know you will invoke the political affinities but which no one can contest the long experience at the head of the SPF Social Affairs, recalled that an INAMI report demonstrated the impact on the disability of the gradual raising of the pension age of women from 60 to 65, between 1997 and 2009. Between 1994 and 2013, the number of disabled women increased by 176 per cent, compared with 27 per cent among men. That is why, like others, he pleaded for an accompanying policy on working conditions. This risk of transfer also exists for the self-employed. He is perhaps even more penalizing for them. The General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers understood this and referred to it in its opinion on the bill. In fact, when we look at Mrs De Block's intentions in this regard, it is clear that the announced tightening of the conditions for eligibility for the work disability scheme is undoubtedly an anticipation of the consequences of your pension reform. You also do not consider the issue of well-being for workers facing difficult jobs or jobs. Yet it is a daily reality for many older workers. This is the latest report of the Brussels Health Observatory, and I am convinced that in each of the other regions there are the same observations which also exist at European level. Mr Michel Jadot, during his hearing by the Committee on Social Affairs, said that it was essential to understand that what matters to workers is well-being at work, training conditions, stress, hours and working time. They are prepared to work longer provided these elements are part of the whole. While age is crucial, the conditions under which work is carried out are even more so. You have decided to carry out this reform without the list of arduous jobs or jobs being stopped and we cannot know how soon it will actually be. I don't think you could easily reach an agreement. This means that workers today do not know how old they will be able to retire when they should be able to benefit from special measures if they are confronted with difficult jobs or jobs. Here too, the overall approach is lacking. Nor have you associated the federated entities with the consequences of your reform. However, you have invented an adapted concept of availability that involves personalized support for seniors. This support for jobseekers falls within the competence of the federated entities. Of course, the latter have not been given the budgetary means. They also did not receive any clarification as to the practical arrangements. Let us not forget that among the effects which will also affect Community policies, there will be the problem of the consequences of child care by grandparents. Today, we know that for a number of children, accompaniment in the family of grandparents is the only childcare offer that exists, especially in view of the lack of places in crèches or other forms of accompaniment for early childhood. In this area, there will also be indirect consequences of your pension reform that have not been properly assessed. For all these reasons, Minister, if I can join you on certain objectives, I cannot do so on the modalities and on the implementation of your reform. Indeed, in other countries, this reform has been more socially accepted than at home because it has been better prepared and has been the subject of genuine social consultation and the elaboration of an overall conception of the evolution of the professional career and its necessary adaptations at the end of the career path. You have done a calculation essentially budget; you have not made a real choice of company. This was crucial in preparing the consensus. You didn't want to. I regret it because it would have been a beautiful ambition, which is now a missed act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u96	Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like to say to the last speaker, Mr.Maingain, that I regret - as his program provided for an increase in the legal retirement age - that he is about to deceive his constituents by voting against our bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u97	Minister, you see, unlike you, I'm not fooling my constituents, because I'm doing what I'm saying. If you had read the program completely, you would know that there was only a legal age adjustment if all the conditions I have just listed were met. Do the same then: do not vote what you did not announce at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u98	Let's move on to serious things. The Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, which has been the subject of various interpretations, strongly advocates in its report an extension of careers in order to strengthen the sustainability of our pension system. On this, everyone agrees. It is true that I was telling you a little anecdote to begin with. I remember perfectly well a debate, in which I participated with some of the people present here, in which I made it clear that the priority for us was not to postpone the legal age of pension, but to work on career extension. This remains our priority, because the main thing is to ensure that everyone, to the extent of their abilities, works a little longer. That's the priority. After saying that, another participant in this debate, Chairman of the Pension Reform Commission, told me: "Don't close the door so quickly to an increase in the legal pension age." He said it on the air. This has been for me the beginning of a reflection, which I always conduct with a critical mind, and which has gradually led me to the conviction that if the lengthening of the career was indeed the priority, it was nevertheless necessary to work in beacons, and that no country in the world was passing from the setting of a legal pension age. And if this legal age of pension were to be fixed, perhaps a little more latitude was needed to broaden the range in which the terms of each person's pension career could be determined. That's what we did. We have in fact gradually set a beach between 60 and 67 years of age. That's the reality. The aim is for everyone, to the extent of their abilities, to make maximum use of this range to work as long as possible. It's a reality, it's what we want to do, it's what we're going to do. I would also remind you that we are one of the last countries in Europe that has not yet carried out the postponement of the legal pension age. We can call this law the Michel government law, the Bacquelaine law or the Tsipras law – it will please Mr Hedebouw – since he starts a journey parallel to ours in Greece to set the pension age at 67 years. This is logically necessary in view of the longer lifespan. Everywhere life expectancy increases, we welcome it, but in Belgium the situation is special. We leave the labour market much earlier than elsewhere and the employment rate of older people (55-64 years) is the lowest in Europe. We must necessarily take this particular situation into account. Even if the other countries are actually gradually setting the statutory pension age at 67, and sometimes 68, in our case, we are going to do so at 67 in 2030, and we are doing so in a particular context, which is that of a country where the average exit age is the lowest in Europe and where the employment rate of workers aged 60-64 is also the lowest in Europe. I would also like to recall the advice of international organisations, particularly the OECD, which often makes reference to the present situation. The February 2015 OECD Economic Survey Belgium states: "As far as early retirement is concerned, the authorities should therefore tighten the rules on age and the number of years of activity, while at the same time raising the statutory retirement age, now 65 years, adapted to life expectancy. The gradual increases announced at the legal retirement age up to 67 and the early retirement age are therefore a desirable initiative." This is the OECD recommendation. She's not the only one, but I'll limit myself to this one. Furthermore, in order to maintain the possibility for some persons to retire earlier and, despite all this, raise the average retirement age, the legal age of the pension must also be raised. Thus, if we add the age of those who leave earlier to the pension and the age of those who work up to the legal age of the pension, increased to 66 and then to 67, the actual average age of departure from the pension is improved. I wanted to excuse the rather rudimentary nature of the graph presented in session but its reading is simple. We are creating a beach between 60 and 67 years old. The average age of exit from work in Europe and OECD countries is just in the middle, at 63.5 years. If you want to allow people, who have either health problems or a particularly heavy job, to leave between 60 and 63.5 years of age, it is necessary – according to the basic rules of mathematics – for a part of the population to work between 63.5 and 67 years of age. It is by adding the ages at which people leave the pension that this average starting age will be raised to the European average of 63.5 years. The reform is therefore not limited to raising the legal age. We are also working mainly to raise the effective retirement age to the pension since the bill also adapts the age and career conditions to access the early pension. In 2019, it will therefore be necessary to reach the age of 63 and justify 42 years of career in order to be able to go on an early pension. I am sometimes criticized for shifting the problem of pensions to the unemployment and disease-disability system by raising the legal age of retirement. I cannot agree with this totally reductive vision. As I have already said, I do not share this view: it is not because people are asked to work longer that this would necessarily and automatically translate into unemployment and disability. It is to have a vision of work that seems particularly pejorative to me. It is true that, with ageing, diseases and cases of disability are increasing - as everyone knows - whether you are working or not. It is necessary to stop establishing this double work equation = disability and illness, and work = job loss and unemployment. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u99	No one said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u100	Yes, I have heard this assimilation several times today, which I find regrettable. For greater clarity, I entrusted the Centre of Expertise, which has just been created by the law of 21 May, with the task of objectifying possible transfers to the system of unemployment and sickness and disability. This objectivisation of possible transfers related to raising the minimum ages for retirement has never been fully and rationally achieved. We'll get to it. In this way, we will have valuable information, which will be used, inter alia, in setting criteria for the penitibility of certain functions. Several parliamentarians – Mrs Becq, Mrs De Coninck and others – spoke of the impact on the situation of women. As far as the impact on women is concerned, first of all, our regulations on pensions have for a few years had a statutory retirement age that is identical for men and women. That was not always the case. The reforms currently under discussion do not change that situation. At times, because of the Covenant of Generations, we have moved on to a massive exclusion of persons from pre-pensions. That is correct, with the Generations Pact, 72 per cent of the exclusions from pre-pensions were for women. Yes, the retirement age has increased, at some point, from 60 to 65 years for women. With what consequence? A woman who had 30 years of career was entitled to thirty fortieths for her pension, when the legal age was 60. In a few years, we moved on to a situation where the woman who had worked for 30 years was receiving a pension of thirty-forty-fifths. Nothing like that in the law we are proposing today! On the contrary! As has been pointed out on many occasions, by raising the legal age of the pension, we do not reach the 45-year-old career. We are in a very opposite situation to the previous reform, which went from 60 to 65 years for women. In fact, today there is not a reduction in the pension, but an increase in the pension for women. It is important to understand this mechanism well. Increasing the statutory pension age allows a woman, whose career is incomplete, to increase her pension by an additional two forty-fifths. That is the reality I wanted to recall! If the specific situation of women is to be taken into account, it is not at the level of retirement age that action should be taken but at the source of the problem, in particular women's careers, by continuing to fight the pay gap and by providing them with the means to develop their own professional careers. I also instructed the Centre of Expertise to draw up a report on the impact of the measures on women on this issue. This report should be submitted to the National Pension Committee, which will start work on taking into account the gravity of the work in September. I would also like to stress that women will receive higher pensions, given their increased participation in the labour market thanks to the reform. Moreover, in general, the reform should allow the risk of poverty for pensioners to be reduced. This was confirmed by the conclusion of the last report of the Study Committee for Ageing of July 2015. Page 56 of that report states: "The second explanatory factor for the decline in the poverty risk of pensioners until the mid-2050s is the increased labour market participation of women. As they have longer and longer careers, women receive higher pensions. The reform we are undertaking is obviously not negative for the status of women. Of course, career is the main element if we are to improve things in terms of equality between men and women. That is what we need to do. Another issue was raised by several parliamentarians: why not submit the bill to the National Pension Committee? Why not have addressed the various phases of reform in a comprehensive manner? In fact, I don't know a government that has undertaken a major pension reform like the one we started without proceeding in stages. At the same time, social dialogue on all the reforms provided for in the government agreement would simply have been unmanageable. Indeed, it is likely that those who have put forward this idea should be primarily concerned with the failure of the reform. Step by step does not, of course, mean that there is no lead. Of course, there is the report of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 from which we have based ourselves, but also the government agreement, the policy note and the policy statement that set the framework for reforms. The bill sets the horizon, but that does not mean that everyone will have to work until the age of 67. In this regard, Mr. De Vriendt asked how many people would work up to this age. The only answer I can give is that at present, only 10% are working until the age of 65. On the other hand, knowing who will work up to 67 years of age will depend on the work of the National Pension Committee, which will define the criteria for penitibility and which are those who do not work in heavy jobs – I agree with the distinction – but in heavy jobs. The criteria for partial pension are still to be defined by the National Pension Committee. I cannot say today which, for example, goes to 63 years old, the age of early retirement, opt for partial pension. No one can say that today. Depending on the modalities that will be established, a larger or smaller number of people will actually reach 67 years of age. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u102	I'm explaining it to you! The National Pension Committee will provide for a number of modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u104	You need to know what you want! On the one hand, you blame us for not carrying out social consultation and, on the other hand, when we want to entrust the social partners within the National Pension Committee with the definition of the modalities, you tell us that we must state this right away in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u106	It's not very serious! It is the National Pension Committee that will set the criteria and procedures that will allow a number of people to leave the labour market earlier than is the case in setting the legal age limit for pensions. We need to be consistent. Often, some people tell us that we were very quick to carry out this project, that we used the stone launcher. I am sorry, but the whole pension reform was presented here in October and November in every detail, in a general policy note explaining the whole system and in particular the point pension system. The fundamental overall reform of the system is inspired by the 2020-2040 report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u107	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u108	Mr President, either you give the floor to Mrs Onkelinx or you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u109	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u110	Let the minister speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u111	The consultation took place within the framework of this project. I will not repeat the list of meetings that have been held since March with both Committee A, the ONP Management Committee, the INASTI Management Committee, the Military Commission, etc. I will add to that the number of informal meetings that have taken place with the leaders of trade union and employers' organizations. This consultation did indeed take place. We have made a series of adjustments that are included in the bill for both the employee and public service systems. These adaptations are the result of a social concertation that has taken place. We have not changed direction. We stayed at the legal age of 66 in 2025 and 67 in 2030. It's a political decision. I believe that in a democracy, Parliament and the government must be able to decide on a number of measures. The modalities will have to be discussed with the social partners. We have already done so, and we will continue to do so within the framework of the National Pension Committee, which will begin its work on 14 September. This week again, I asked Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, President of the Academic Council, former Reform Commission, to present to the National Pension Committee, the whole philosophy of the reform of the point system. We hope that all the modalities and reforms that will be discussed there, such as partial pension, penitential criteria or mixed pensions, can be achieved in the light of the general system of point pension reform. It is a question of having an overview and that everyone can know in what situation he is in. It is in the context of the reform of the point system that all reforms will be analysed. Linkages with labour market reforms were also discussed. Our pension reforms must be accompanied by labour market reforms. I cannot agree when some claim that this pension reform is suspended outside the general context. This is not the case since we have already taken a series of measures and will continue to do so in order to stimulate the labour market and ensure that the burdens on businesses are reduced and that staff are hired and the employment rate is increased. The Minister for Employment, Mr Kris Peeters, has just begun work on the labour market and on work that can be done, to discuss training, telework, floating hours, flexibility and flexibility in the labour market with the aim of enabling everyone to better manage their careers, with greater freedom and adaptability. Pension reform is a contiguous and complementary element to labour market reform work. We cannot dissociate pension reform from the labour market. We must ensure that the employment rate increases in our country. A member of the Pension Reform Commission, Professor Hindriks, has been mentioned several times. I would like to make it very clear that Professor Hindriks himself has three possible situations to deal with the sustainability of our pension system. One way is to increase contributions and jeopardise job creation, as has already been repeated here today. Either the benefits are reduced and the purchasing power is jeopardized. These two solutions are therefore to be excluded. Either, we lengthen the career and the period of work and, even if we do this, it's not enough yet. Most experts today tell us that even with an increase to 67 years of age, even if people work longer, the pension system is not necessarily sustainable in the long run. Why? Because we need a sufficient employment rate. There must be enough social contributions to feed the system. All the measures that are being taken to increase the employment rate, to ensure that there is more job creation, all the measures that reduce, for example, social contributions and the burden on work are therefore measures that promote the sustainability of our social system in general and of our pension system in particular. I note that the Federal Office of the Plan, after incorporating the government's reforms, indicates that a significant increase in the employment rate for persons aged 55 to 64 is expected by 2060 and that the employment rate for persons aged 55 to 64 is expected to reach 66% by 2060, 10 percentage points higher than in the 2014 Annual Report of the Study Committee on Ageing, particularly as a result of the new pension reform. This expected trend is even reinforced in the July 2015 Annual Report of the Review Committee on Ageing, which indicates that the employment rate of persons aged 55 to 66 is 68.2 per cent by 2060, almost 16 percentage points higher than in the 2014 Annual Report of the Review Committee on Ageing, due in part to pension reform, the Committee says. I would also like to remind all those who have rightly suggested today that we need to improve working conditions at the end of a career, that we need to ensure that older workers have better working conditions and better employability conditions, that, of course, this is part of the reform of the labour market. But it is also within the framework of the Sixth State Reform that the Regions now have a large number of tools to increase the employment rate of older people. I am thinking of reducing social contributions targeted at older workers, training, measures to encourage the mentoring of young people – of which Ecolo has spoken, and we share this view – to adapt jobs and jobs. But these are regional competences. This is also the observation made by the Council of State in its analysis of certain labour market amendments tabled by the opposition. A number of proposals made, said the Council of State, do not fall within the competence of the federal authority but only the Regions, and therefore these amendments are inadmissible. The Regions also certainly have an important role to play in reforming our labour market. I think we need to take this mission of the Regions more seriously. One more word on the report of the Committee for the Study of Ageing. It is true, I rejoiced - how could it have been otherwise? - the annual report of the Committee for the Study of Ageing in early July refers to the budgetary and social consequences of long-term ageing. I believe, unlike some, that this report is an important tool available to policies to measure the impact of the government's reforms. I trust the expertise of the Federal Planning Office and the Aging Review Committee. I believe that their studies are generally well documented and help us to understand the necessary reforms. Without falling into excessive optimism, I consider that this report gives a positive signal, which must of course be taken with caution, but which encourages us to stop defeatism. Although this report presents different results according to the scenario chosen, it remains encouraging, regardless of the scenario. That is what I want to rely on to continue this reform. The reform is not over, of course, and this report reinforces our willingness to continue the work. The analyses and figures contained in this report confirm that pension reform will help to respond to the ageing population. First, it will allow for a substantial reduction in the budgetary cost of ageing. I would point out that, particularly in the area of pensions, the 2.1% reduction in GDP is a very favourable development. I know that some have criticized this report in such a way that, for example, it often takes into account a much too high rate of productivity. That's not true! The report takes into account three different productivity rates and presents three scenarios. This productivity rate corresponds exactly to the European methodology used in all European countries to compare the different studies on pension reforms undertaken in those countries. As I have indicated, the reform will significantly increase the employment rate, and in particular that of people aged 55 to 66. One must stop having this absurd reasoning that an older worker necessarily takes the place of a young person who does not find a job. That's obviously not the truth. In all the countries of the European Union, the examples are very clear. It is where the youth unemployment rate is highest, where the rate of non-active elderly people is highest. It's time to put the clocks back on schedule. This brings me to a number of points which have been raised again. I would simply like to respond quickly to Mr Daerden, who has advocated putting the project in the fridge. Putting the project in the fridge is mostly what you shouldn't do. Everyone agrees that quarries should be extended. It is true that there has sometimes been a tendency to talk a lot about the issue of pension reform while undertaking few reforms. Today, the responsibility of politics is to really undertake major reforms on this issue. I would also like to reply to Mrs De Coninck and Mrs Temmerman who spoke on the remarks made by the Council of State. I repeat, the Council of State has asked for some clarification. All the answers were given on equality – dealt with in Article 23 – as well as on the possible reduction of social rights and discrimination. This body agrees, moreover, that if we are to talk about longer careers, it is impossible to circumvent the problem of age and that all countries have set ages. Of course, we could not do otherwise today. Mr. De Vriendt asks me what will be done in the event of failure of social consultation; if, for example, the National Pension Committee does not find agreement on heavy trades. You'll allow me not to answer that question, because I don't usually consider things going wrong. On the contrary, I don't think they went too well. I trust the responsibility of the social partners to work effectively on this issue. In all the contacts we have had with them, particularly within the framework of the Group of Ten, there has been goodwill. I think the National Pension Committee will work effectively. Mr President, I would like to say a word in conclusion. The pension reform that we are undertaking is far-reaching and fundamental, since it is the whole system that will be profoundly changed with the point pension. The aim is to promote individual responsibility and ownership of each individual's career, so that he or she accumulates a number of points based on the effort he or she provides. It is also a mechanism that focuses on solidarity, since the value of the point will depend on the solidarity factor. It is therefore a system that will make matters much simpler, since it will apply in the three schemes: employee, independent, public service. This system will therefore be much more legible, particularly in the context of the pension engine. This system will enable special and individual situations to be taken into account. We are, of course, in favour of speedily undertaking this reform and ensuring that we can implement it quickly with the assistance of the National Pension Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of ageing is a major problem in all European countries and throughout the world. This challenge is both pensions and health. The differences in health among individuals are a glaring injustice. There is no greater injustice on earth, because the individual does not necessarily have a grip on it. Sometimes he has to go through it. Thus, the greatest injustice consists of these health problems that individuals face throughout their lives. But the greatest solidarity that can be exercised with those who actually have health problems or who do not have the capacity to continue to work is to ensure that those who, on the contrary, are fit, have no health problems, are in full capacity, work longer, perhaps even beyond 67 years, making our ageing system manageable in this way. In short, let those who have the capacity to work be in solidarity with those who do not have this capacity and who must benefit from solidarity! That is how we will manage to control the factor of ageing in our country. But that requires solidarity. Everyone will not work the same number of years throughout their career. Our duty today is to create a system in which ageing can be controlled at the budgetary level, so that solidarity can be exercised and that future generations can count on proper pensions, a social health and pension system that enables them to live in dignity. That is all I want in this first stage of an extremely important reform. I ask you to think carefully about the usefulness of this reform, which is necessary for the social protection of future generations. "The true generosity towards the future is to give everything to the present.", as Albert Camus spoke, in The Rebelled Man. He wasn't wrong. It is true that pension reform and the consideration of ageing is complicated, as is often the case with major democratic reforms. I would like to paraphrase Kierkegaard by saying: "It is not the path that is difficult, in democracy, it is always the difficult path". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u112	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in this parliamentary debate. I will therefore not go back to our arguments. I am not going to relaunch the adversarial debate. I'd just like to say a word about your beautiful chart with your 60-67 fork. It would be interesting if the worker had a choice. Unfortunately, that is not the case. He has no choice between 60 and 67 years of age depending on his health, family status or financial situation. The legal age is not the maximum limit. It's a minimum limit for many. That is where the problem arises for us, and especially for those who do not have the opportunity to go so far. Your position has not changed. You continue to defend your unjust, absurd, ineffective, anti-democratic, anti-social, brutal and banal reform. Mr Minister, I am disappointed because I was hoping for a refrigerator not for reflection, for consultation for a comprehensive, coherent, socially accepted reform, but for this project. But I knew it. Your reform will be voted in a few minutes. It's a bad reform. Fortunately, we have a few years before your reform works. We have a few years ahead of us to change it and to make it socially fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1180/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (180/5) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation to increase the legal age of the retirement pension and to amend the conditions for access to the early retirement pension and the minimum age of the survivor's pension." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill to raise the legal age of retirement pension and to change the conditions for access to early retirement pension and the minimum age of survivor's pension". The draft law has 50 articles. The bill has 50 clauses. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u115	Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u116	• 71 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 72 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 80 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 92 Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u117	Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 77 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 53 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1180/6) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 111 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u118	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u119	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 67 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 81 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 105 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u120	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 73 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 74 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 99 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u121	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 61 - Catherine Fonck (1180/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u122	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u123	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 112 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u124	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 76 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 88 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u125	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 89 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u126	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 110 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u127	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 65 - Catherine Fonck (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u128	• 68 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u129	• 79 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 75 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 106 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u130	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 113 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u131	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 109 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u132	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 87 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u133	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 90 - Catherine Fonck (1180/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u134	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 57 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1180/6) • 64 - Catherine Fonck (1180/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u135	• 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06) • 63 - Catherine Fonck (1180/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u136	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 82 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (118/06)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u137	• 84 - Frédéric Daerden cs (1180/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u138	• 86 - Jean-Marc Delizée cs (1180/7) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) • 62 - Catherine Fonck (1180/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u139	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 51(n) • 78 - Karin Temmerman cs (118/06) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u140	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u141	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1249/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1249/1) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open. The rapporteur, Ms Kattrin Jadin, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u142	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u143	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that tomorrow's plenary start with the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin, Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Servais Verherstraeten) which introduces an Article 1412quinquies into the Code of Justice, confiscating the property of a third State or an international organisation (Nos. 1241/1 to 6). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 July 2015, I propose that you start tomorrow's plenary session with the bill (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Sonja Becq, MM. Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin, Ms Carina Van Cauter en M. Servais Verherstraeten) inserting in the Judicial Code an article 1412quinquies governing the seizure of property belonging to a third State or an international organization (Nos. 1241/1 to 6). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 77 Yes No. [[26]] No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1235/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1235/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1237/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1237/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1238/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1238/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1239/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1239/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1236/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1236/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u149	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u150	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1208/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1208/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1240/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1240/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 4/1(n). (1225/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert a point 4/1(n). (1225/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 13 Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] (Mr Benoît Lutgen voted like his group)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1225/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1225/5) Mr Demeyer has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u154	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Benoit Hellings cs on the inscription. (1207/3) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Benoit Hellings cs. (1207/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 30 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 15 from Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a single explanation. (1207/7) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a single declaration. (1207/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 17 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a single explanation (s). (1207/8) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a single statement (n). (1207/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 30 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr. Blanchart abstained. Vote on Amendment No 21 from Benoit Hellings cs at point 1(n). (1207/3) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Benoit Hellings cs in point 1(n). (1207/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 30 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 16 from Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a single explanation. (1207/7) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Stéphane Crusnière cs to insert a single declaration. (1207/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Dallemagne on request 2. (1207/8) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Georges Dallemagne in point 2. (1207/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 19 from Georges Dallemagne to insert a request 2/1(n). (1207/8) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Georges Dallemagne to insert a point 2/1(n). (1207/ 8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u155	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Wouter De Vriendt cs at point 9. (1207/3) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Wouter De Vriendt cs in point 9. (1207/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 30 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u157	Mr President, despite all the weaknesses I was able to express yesterday with regard to the majority text, the text before us today will be supported by my group as a whole. As far as I am concerned, however, symbolically, I will abstain. Indeed, as I was able to say yesterday in this year when we are commemorating the centennial, by rejecting our amendments, the majority unfortunately misses the possibility of imposing a strong and solemn act by formally recognizing genocide and encouraging national and international courts to rule on the subject. This is a missed new opportunity and unfortunately it is not the first! It is a lack of political courage and a lack of responsibility, and we regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u158	Mr. President, I will abstain. I will refrain from remaining consistent with the positions taken in committee during parliamentary work. Let us not hide it: this resolution by the majority government attempts to erase, in part, the disastrous impression – and the word is weak – given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he answered my topical question where he did not want to recognize genocide. It is regrettable that the majority does not accept that the House itself clearly expresses the recognition of genocide, just as it is regrettable that the majority did not in any way open the debate with the opposition to recognize that the Armenian genocide was also the genocide of the Aramaeans, the Pontical Greeks, the Chaldeans, which historians recognize today. It was also regrettable that the majority had not opened the debate or accepted that it should take place within a specified period of time concerning the necessary repression of the negationism of that genocide, like any other genocide. This text comes too late. Its scope is too small to be able to be unanimous today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u159	Mr President, the majority has had the opportunity three times to vote for an amendment, one or the other, to allow this chamber to recognise the Armenian genocide. The whole of the Ecolo-Groen Group will vote for me, except for me, to express our disapproval of this missed possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify the abstention of my colleague, Vanessa Matz and myself just now, together with the majority vote in favour of this resolution, despite its serious shortcomings and its circumvolutions. Indeed, we want to be clear. There must be no doubt. Belgium has very officially recognised the Armenian genocide by its Prime Minister on 18 June, two days after an amendment was tabled by the CDH on the same subject in the Committee on External Relations. Our group therefore wishes, without any ambiguity, to join in the recognition of this genocide by the head of government because the fight against this absolute crime, which requires its precise qualification and the right of all human groups to be protected, is at the heart of our party's humanistic values. We do not wish to leave any form of ambiguity in this regard. This recognition had already been the subject of a resolution adopted in the Senate in 1998 and in the House in 2003, but it had to be finalized because of the surprising retreat of the Minister of Foreign Affairs here on April 23rd. The resolution we have just voted on is intended to commemorate the centennial. Although this resolution is already partially outdated since the commemoration took place on 24 April, we believe that there is still much to be done to commemorate the centenary of this horrific tragedy. We deeply regret that you did not consider it useful, for mediocre reasons, to formally associate the entire nation, through our parliament, with the recognition of the government. That is also the reason for Vanessa Matz's and myself's abstention. In fact, there are at least two essential points missing in this resolution: on the one hand, the recognition of the genocide of the Arameans and the Pontic Greeks and, on the other, the criminalization of negationism. The first subject is already the subject of a resolution on the agenda of our Committee on External Relations, and we hope that the second subject, which Mr Maingain is the main author, will be dealt with quickly. We ask you to consider the positive vote of a large part of our group as an encouragement to vote quickly on these proposals, which will give their full meaning to the text that we are going to vote for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u161	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1207/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1207/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u162	Vote on Amendment No 20 of Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs in recital R. (1226/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to Recital R. (1226/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 21 of Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs in recital S. (1226/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to Recital S. (1226/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u163	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on request 1. (1226/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs in point 1. (1226/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u164	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on request 3. (1226/7) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs in point 3. (1226/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u165	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 from Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to insert a request 3/1(n). (1226/7) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to insert a point 3/1(n). (1226/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u166	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? I give the floor first to Mrs Grovonius for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u168	Mr President, I should like to point out how surprised I am by the vote of the MR Group, which does not hesitate to reject in plenary an amendment which takes word for word the text which was tabled by Mr Louis Michel in the European Parliament, which boasts all the benefits that this amendment will bring in this debate. I would like to emphasize your great courage and your great fairness in relation to what you are defending. If for Mr Flahaux, I am the "ayatollesse" of democracy, you are undoubtedly the fosseur of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u169	Mr President, yesterday we had a somewhat lively debate. But, Mrs Grovonius, to say from a parliamentarian of whom you know that he is first and foremost a Democrat that he is the fosseur of human rights is truly regrettable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u170	Mr President, here we are not going to play a ping-pong game to determine who insults who. I just want to point out that on the occasion of his remarks, Mr. Flahaux showed a great deal of outrage. Suffer that there can be an answer to these outrages! No more or less, Mr. Ducrame!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u171	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u172	(...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u173	In the meantime, I can tell you that we will have to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u174	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 81 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1226/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1226/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Frédéric Daerden cs to delete point 1.a. (1111/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 of Frédéric Daerden cs leaving point 1.a. (1111/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 38 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs.(n). (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 38 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs at point 1.a.(n). (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 37 by Marco Van Hees in point 1.a. (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Marco Van Hees at point 1.a. (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 34 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 43 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.a. (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 43 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.a. (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 48 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs. (1111/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Frédéric Daerden cs at point 1.a. (1111/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[40]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 41 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.p.(n). (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 41 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs inserting a point 1.p.(n). (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 42 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.q.(n). (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 42 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs inserting a point 1.q.;n). (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 49 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 39 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.r.(n). (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Jean-Marc Nollet to insert a point 1.r.(n). (1111/10) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 2.a.(n). (1111/10) Vote on Amendment No 40 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs inserting a point 2.a.(n). (1111/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 89 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1111/11) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1111/11) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (314/11) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (314/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (325/11) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (325/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u180	Vote on Amendment No 66 by Karin Temmerman cs for the omission of Articles 1 to 50. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Karin Temmerman cs to delete Articles 1 to 50. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 69 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 1/1(n). (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 1/1(n). (118/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u181	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 1/2(n). (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 1/2(n). (118/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u182	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Raoul Hedebouw cs for the omission of Articles 2 to 49. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 2 to 49. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 34 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 72 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 2. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 72 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 2. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 80 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 92 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 92 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 93 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 93 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u183	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 91 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 91 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u184	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 95 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 95 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u185	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 94 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 94 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u186	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 104 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 104 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u187	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Article 3 has been adopted. Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 4. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 4. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 34 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 4. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 4. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Articles 5 to 8 have been adopted by article. Articles 5 to 8 are adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 111 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 9. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 111 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 9. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected in Article 9 and adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Article 10 has been adopted. Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 108 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 10/1(n). (1180/9) Vote on amendment No 108 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 10/1(n). (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u188	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 11. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 11. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 73 by Karin Temmerman cs for the omission of Articles 12 to 17. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No. 73 by Karin Temmerman cs to delete Articles 12 to 17. (118/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u189	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 81 of Raoul Hedebouw cs leaving out Article 12. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Article 12. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 105 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 12. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 105 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 12. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 49 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Articles 13 to 17 have been adopted by article. Articles 13 to 17 were adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 18. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 74 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 18. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Fernandez Fernandez abstained. Vote on Amendment No 99 by Catherine Fonck on article 18. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 99 by Catherine Fonck to Article 18. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 97 by Catherine Fonck on article 18. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 97 by Catherine Fonck to Article 18. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u190	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 98 by Catherine Fonck on article 18. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 98 by Catherine Fonck to Article 18. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u191	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 96 by Catherine Fonck on article 18. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 96 by Catherine Fonck to Article 18. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u192	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 61 by Catherine Fonck on article 19. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Catherine Fonck to Article 19. (118/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u193	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 107 by Catherine Fonck on article 19. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 107 by Catherine Fonck to Article 19. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u194	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 adopted. Article 20 has been adopted. Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to insert an Article 20/1(n). (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to insert an Article 20/1(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 112 by Catherine Fonck on article 21. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 112 by Catherine Fonck to Article 21. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Article 22 has been adopted. Article 22 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 23. (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 23. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on amendment No. 88 by Catherine Fonck to Article 24. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 88 by Catherine Fonck on article 24. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 89 by Catherine Fonck to Article 25. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Catherine Fonck on article 25. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u195	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 110 by Catherine Fonck to Article 26. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 110 by Catherine Fonck on article 26. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u196	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Eric Massin cs to insert an Article 26/1(n). (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Eric Massin cs to insert an article 26/1(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 65 by Catherine Fonck to Article 27. (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Catherine Fonck on article 27. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 51 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 55 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 27. (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 27. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 68 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 27/1(n). (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 27/1(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 34 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 70 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 27/2(n). (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 27/2(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 79 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 27/3(n). (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 27/3(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 75 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 28. (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 28. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes [[29]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 106 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 106 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 101 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 101 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u197	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 100 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 100 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u198	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 102 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 102 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u199	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 103 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (118/9) Vote on Amendment No 103 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (1180/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u200	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 56 by Eric Massin cs to insert an Article 28/1(n). (118/6) Vote on Amendment No 56 of Eric Massin cs to insert an Article 28/1(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Articles 29 to 33 were adopted article by article. Articles 29 to 33 have been adopted by article. Vote on Amendment No 113 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 34. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 113 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 34. (118/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 34 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 34 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 109 by Catherine Fonck on article 35. (1180/9) Vote on amendment No 109 by Catherine Fonck to Article 35. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u201	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Articles 36 to 38 have been adopted by article. Articles 36 to 38 were adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 87 by Catherine Fonck on article 39. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 87 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 39. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u202	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 39 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 39 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 90 by Catherine Fonck on article 40. (1180/9) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 40. (118/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u203	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 40 was adopted. Articles 41 to 45 have been adopted by article. Articles 41 to 45 are adopted article by article. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 46. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Rule 46. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 64 by Catherine Fonck on article 46. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 46. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 59) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 46 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 46 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u204	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u205	So you voted like your group. Rule 47 has been adopted. Article 47 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Catherine Fonck leaving out Article 48. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 48. (118/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u206	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 58 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to Article 48. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to Rule 48. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes 52 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 48 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 48 was adopted. Rule 49 was adopted. Article 49 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 83 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 49/1(n). (1180/7) Vote on amendment No 83 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an article 49/1(n). (118/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Delpérée abstained. Vote on Amendment No 84 of Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 49/2(n). (1180/7) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 49/2(n). (118/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u207	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 85 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 49/3(n). (1180/7) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 49/3(n). (118/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u208	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 86 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to insert an Article 49/4(n). (1180/7) Vote on Amendment No 86 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to insert an Article 49/4(n). (118/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes 51 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 62 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 50. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 50. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 59 from Eric Massin cs to Article 50. (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Eric Massin cs to Rule 50. (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 50 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 50 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 52 from Georges Gilkinet to Articles 50/1(n) to 50/9(n). (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Articles 50/1(n) to 50/9(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 65) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u209	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Calvo, who is now present at Parkpop in Mechelen with Nicole and Hugo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u210	It's been noted. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 51(n). (1180/6) Vote on Amendment No. 78 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 51(n). (118/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 66) Yes 50 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 67) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1180/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (118/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-23-54-plenair-ip069x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 68) Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the board adopted the proposed amendment to rule 9. Consequently, the Court adopted the proposal to amend Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, 24 July 2015, at 10.15 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 24 July 2015 at 10.15 a.m.
