ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u1	I'd like to ask you a question first. The agenda is not complete and we apologize. On the subject, following a request by the secretariat, we accepted rather late questions and questions that were tabled. To sum up, I have an inquiry by Mr Hellings, a question by Mr Dallemagne, a question by Mrs Matz, a question by Mr Ducrame, an inquiry by Mr Geerts, a question by myself and an inquiry by Mr Calvo. Do we just involve only those who have filed inquiries or questions, or do we organize a mini-debate while knowing that those who have asked the inquiries speak 10 minutes while the others speak 5 minutes? If we make a mini-debate, the secretary tells me that we will do as usual, according to the order of the parties. It's not up to me to decide. It's up to the commission to do it. Either we make the agenda as planned or we make a mini-debate in which case all parties can intervene. I would like to know the feeling of the political groups represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u2	Madam President, like several colleagues, I have tabled an inquiry. I would find it normal for us to have a mini-debate, but that the statements should be made in the order in which the inquiries and questions are tabled, and that the other groups that have not tabled anything should then be able to take part in the mini-debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u3	Madam President, I agree with Mr Hellings. I have tabled an interplay on behalf of our group. I also support your idea that all the groups that have not yet submitted a question can be discussed after the interplays. We do want the order to be followed and certainly the interplays to be dealt with at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u4	Does a member of the majority wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u5	That is not exactly what was planned in the Conference of Presidents when we discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u6	That's why I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u7	Even if everyone had the opportunity to table questions in time and time, I think it would be inappropriate not to give the opportunity to participate in the debate to groups that had failed to ask a question. We therefore agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ducrame. I would remind those groups that have not tabled a question that only one person can intervene, not several. The questions will be asked by those who filed them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u9	First of all, I would like to know what was decided at the Conference of Presidents because my group is not lucky enough to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u10	I would point out to you, Mr Van Hees, that the orders of business are the responsibility of the committee. Given the filing of the hearings, Minister Galant agreed to come and answer this week. The Conference of Presidents has called for it to come today. Mr Ledoux's hearing this morning, for example, is within the competence of the committees and fortunately for all the Commissioners!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u11	In any case, as far as we are concerned, we had the documents at 11:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u12	Mr Van Hees, do you agree with my proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u13	If you reformulate it, I could follow you. On the order of business, I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u14	You didn't deposit anything anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u15	It would be nice to have some latitude in speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u16	No, we're holding a mini-debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u17	This is a question that includes a lot of matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u18	As Mr. Ducarme pointed out, a mini-debate is already an exception. For those groups that did not put questions, such as yours when they were in a position to do so, this has the effect of giving them the floor today. We will respect the usual organisation of mini-debates: - 10 minutes of speaking time for Members who have tabled an inquiry; - 5 minutes of speaking time for those who have tabled a question; - 5 minutes of speaking time then for those who have not filed anything. May I have an agreement on this proposal? [[Sentiment]] [[.]] Thank you. Minister, we heard from the Chair of the Board of FPS Mobility this morning. We may have to go through the Speaker of the House, but, given your presence, I will relay the request made this morning. Since the President of the FPS has told us that you are the only one who can provide us with the agreement signed with the law firm Clifford Chance, do we have to make this request via the Speaker of the House or can you provide this agreement to the members of this commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u19	That is one of the answers that will be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u20	We will therefore wait for the answers. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin with the inquiries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u21	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, on October 28, you stated in committee that it was up to the administration and not to the minister or her cabinet to place orders or public contracts. However, in view of the information you gave us yesterday and the remarks made by the President of the FPS Finances, what you said is wrong. The facts are proven, Madam Minister. Indeed, on November 7, 2014, your firm mandated Clifford by email. However, on 3 November, the administration warned you that it was necessary to comply with the rules in force and to launch a public procurement. Following the copies of the emails you provided to us, on November 3, one of your counsel, in this case Mr. Dumonceau, was preparing a public contract and was planning to consult three law firms. He told the administration that this would have to be done. That's for the 3rd of November. On November 4, Mr. Dumonceau informed Mr. Ledoux that after a discussion with your Chief of Staff, it had been decided to choose Clifford without going through the rules on public procurement. Another thing is clear: the documents were hidden between the committee of 28 October and the Conference of Presidents on 9 November. There was no e-mail after November 5, 2014, there was no opinion from the Finance Inspectorate, there was not a whole series of other items that were discussed this morning. The main shadow zone is the expansion of the missions entrusted to Clifford Chance. In the e-mail that mandates Clifford, which comes from your firm, it is clearly said that Clifford must work on state aid. This e-mail is sent from Mr. Dumonceau to Mr. Ledoux. Almost a year later, on 1 October 2015, in a note to the Finance Inspectorate, it appears that Clifford is not only responsible for state aid but also for a law on Belgocontrol and noise pollution around Brussels-National Airport. Minister, my questions are clear. Who expanded this mission? To do what? When? By what means? An e-mail, a contract? Tell us. I'm used to sitting on the Defence Committee and in the chain of command, you're the final leader and the political responsibility for this market lies with you. We knew your troubles with the numbers. From now on, we know your difficulties with the letters, the different letters that the Mobility FPS sent you. I repeat, on 3 November, Mr Ledoux tells you that public procurement rules must be respected. After that, the market is done and it has been explained to us in detail. He realizes that a deal is under way, that various advice is being given to your firm by Clifford Chance. There are reminders. On February 6th, May 22nd and July 3rd, the Mobility FPS wrote to you asking you about the status of Clifford Chance's mission, what they are working on and when he will receive the invoices. Another extremely bizarre element: Clifford Chance sent five invoices to your firm, which forwarded them to the Mobility FPS. These five invoices mention various projects. This is how the Mobility FPS learned that it was working on the Vliegwet and not just on state aid. These five invoices end in March 2015. Now, it's November 2015. When will the invoices for missions between March 2015 and the end of 2015 arrive? You have provided 500,000 euros for 2015. According to what Mr. Ledoux told us earlier, Clifford could charge more than 590,000 euros in total in 2014 and 2015 for these advisory missions. Why didn't you go through a public procurement for advisory missions? Clifford did counsel while you hired him on state aid litigation. You knew from the beginning that you were going to hire Clifford to work on the airport law, on the Belgocontrol law and not just on state aid and the litigation Belgium has with the European Commission. Why didn't you make a public deal? Finally, there is obviously a communication problem between you and your administration. We have entered into the details of this case. There was also this judgment in which Belgium was sentenced by default by the Brussels Court of First Instance for the use of the "Leuven Rechtdoor" road. You explained yourself here in Parliament about the reasons why Belgium was condemned. I'm not going to go into detail. But in any case, there was no representative of the Belgian State at this court hearing. Belgium was therefore condemned by default. It seems that's because your firm forgot to pass the information on to your administration. And on this subject, I would like to hear from you, as well as from all the questions I have just asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, the terms of the debate have been put forward both for two weeks and this morning. It is clear today that your firm was at the manoeuvring, that the rules were reminded of your firm, that one of your employees was working on a specification to compete with the law firms, but that following a discussion with your chief of staff, your firm changed its mind and designated Clifford Chance directly not only for litigation but also for legal advice. We also know that you are the only legal authority to engage the state in a working relationship with Clifford, who is appointed here, since we were reminded this morning of the Royal Order of Delegation. I quote Article 8, § 1: "The power to award public contracts for representation services in judicial proceedings shall be conferred on the Chairman of the Management Committee, provided that the Minister has not appointed the law firm." We are therefore in the second part of this article. Minister, my question is simple. Where's the contract you signed? Does this contract – or this convention, it's a generic term – exist? By whom was it signed? What's in it? As I asked you at the beginning of the sitting, I hope that we will receive it because both the presidency of this Parliament and the Prime Minister have called for full transparency in this matter. We're waiting for him. The contract must exist since the press reported that you suspended it on November 1st. If everything was all right, why did you suspend the Clifford contract? I would like to receive a specific answer in this regard. Do you agree with the legal analysis of the Finance Inspectorate, which states that competition is necessary in all cases of litigation and that it is necessary in any case – and everyone knew it – for legal consultations? In other words, do you still support all the arguments of opportunity that you have put forward, such as urgency, confidentiality or other terms that you have used or that the press has relayed – terms that you have used in front of the MR office – with regard to the interpretation of the law or do you share the legal analysis of the Finance Inspectorate? We know that it was your firm that decided on November 4, 2015 – this has been confirmed – to designate the firm Clifford. Can you tell us who made this decision in your firm? Is it yourself or a collaborator? Who has made this decision in your firm and how have you been informed of it? Why the firm Clifford? We know he's not a specialist in aeronautics. We wonder why this firm Clifford was appointed. We also know that it was your firm that first asked to contact Clifford. So I guess you can tell us why you chose the firm Clifford because it was your firm that advised you on this. All control bodies have been swept away by a turn of the hand in relation to your management because you signed the contract. So you had to go to the control bodies. Why didn't you go to the Finance Inspectorate because this is not a contract of less than 31,000 euros? We learned this this morning; it is a contract not of 400 000 euros but of 591,000 euros VAT, i.e. half a million euros without the opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance, without the opinion of the Minister for the Budget or the Council of Ministers. I think it's really very light. Minister, a chair of the steering committee came here to acknowledge mistakes and to say that he assumes responsibility for all of his collaborators. He admits his mistakes but he doesn't want to hear a minister say, "It's not me, it's the other." Today, we want to hear from a minister who bears his political responsibility and who makes all the transparency, as Parliament has already requested fifteen days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, on October 28, 2015, we had a first discussion on the basis of a number of information that you were pleased to provide on this occasion. There is no doubt that documents were missing on that day, and we had already pointed out that at that time. Since then, documents have been provided yesterday via the Conference of Presidents but what was not our surprise this morning to discover that we did not yet have all the documents, since the President of the SPF presented this morning an inventory of all the documents relating to this dossier! We note that the e-mails dated May 22, July 3 and July 13, 2015, which are in fact your administration's reminders to your firm about how to proceed with the billing and costs that Clifford will incur at the contract level, were not provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u24	These e-mails have not been transmitted. The Prime Minister has spoken on several occasions about transparency. These documents, which are important to the extent that they show that the administration was placed out of hand, were not provided. If, on 28 October, we had already indicated that we did not have the file in its entirety to give us a general picture of the events, we must note that the same is true today, despite the official request of the Speaker that all the exhibits be disclosed. Why weren't they? There's no doubt that it's your firm that decided to work with the Clifford office. However, there is still a big question mark about what happened between November 3 and 4. Indeed, before 3 November, the firm and the administration cooperated with a view to drawing up a specification and consulting at least three lawyers. Therefore, why was there a turnaround on November 4, so that your firm decided to work with Clifford without any other explanation? That's what you and the president of the SPF have provided from the exhibits. So I would have liked to hear you on this point, because I think that is where the problem lies. Did you receive any other legal advice that suggested that you could evade the procedures that had been called back a few days earlier by the Chair of the CPS? My colleagues have already mentioned, if not a contract – the term may not be appropriate in this case – at least one mission. What is she? At the committee meeting on 28 October, you repeated: "Clifford Chance follows up on matters relating to support for airlines and advises the Belgian State on the legal aspects of a comprehensive reflection carried out within my firm and the administration on the future of the operation of Brussels airport." When we read the documents you sent us, we realize that, as early as 23 October, other missions had been assigned to him. Could you enlighten us on this point? I hope that you will respond to us in the serenity required and in a transparent manner. That's what we've been waiting for for two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u25	Madam Chair, you alluded to what Ms. Galant said before the MR Board. I didn't see you in the room! More seriously, it is clear that this issue needs to be put into context. This is an essential issue in terms of air transport. However, we know the difficult context in which we must evolve in this regard. It is essential, Madam Minister, not to give up where others have failed. The balance between the economic development of the airport and the well-being of residents is a major issue. Your predecessors have not been able to succeed in this regard. It will be essential to continue on the path you have taken. Very briefly, we cannot ignore what was said this morning at Mr Ledoux's hearing. The question of e-mails was obviously raised. I don't want to go into the details of e-mail exchanges. We've already learned a lot in the press anyway. Nevertheless, it is a central element on which it is important to insist and which establishes the link with the report of the Finance Inspectorate which fell yesterday indicating that the analysis carried out shows that the services of the Mobility and Transport FPS do not always comply with the current rules on public procurement. It is clear that when a chief administrative officer tells us that he and all public servants are responsible for this, it raises questions about the advice that has been given to ministers in this area, not only you but also your predecessors. In this regard, we can only pay attention to the fact that the head of administration assumes that he has been wrong for so long. It is a good thing to see Mr Ledoux recognize mistakes in this way. In particular, he indicated that he had communicated verbally on a central element of the file. We have therefore received a certain amount of information which was worth the trip and which, in the end, justifies the availability of the majority in relation to this dossier. The opposition had come with a number of requests for additional documents. They were forwarded by the Minister to the Conference of Presidents. Some wanted to receive Mr. Ledoux. It was an excellent thing, we debated this morning; today the minister is here. So there is a will at the level of the minister and the majority as a whole, to make transparency on a complex issue. In view of the regulations in force yesterday, today and tomorrow - I am referring to the transposition of the European directive - it is also useful, Madam Minister, to agree on your legal reasoning in the follow-up to the dossier; to remind us of the context of the contacts made as soon as you take office between your firm, the Mobility FPS and the law firm Clifford. It would be helpful if you would remind us of your vision of urgent legal advice, particularly on ongoing litigation. We saw a cabal, a hunt not for man but for woman. It is necessary at some point to go back to the bottom of the file, to allow you to provide additional information. It is clear, in any case, that from the moment that, as a minister, you rely on an administration that this morning, through its chief executive, acknowledges that it has acted in error since the beginning of 2014, beyond the complexity of the rules on public procurement as they exist, you can hardly be blamed for the decisions you have taken, given that the fault has been clearly assumed in this matter by the administration, as you have heard this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u26	Madam President, Minister, on 28 October I asked you a number of questions on this dossier. I made it clear at the time that I wanted clarity and that, if irregularities have occurred, this cannot be left blue. Those were my initial words on October 28th. Today, Madam Secretary, I will intercede with you on this dossier. Madam President, I've been here for ten years, and I don't do that every week. I only do that at times when I believe that a Member should exercise his right of control because something is actually wrong. If I look at this dossier and all the e-mails I received, as well as the Minister's reply, two weeks ago, to my questions and to the questions put by fellow Members, then I find that the Minister in this dossier has actually moved the black guy completely to the administration. However, from all the documentation I have at my disposal today, I have to conclude that the leadership role in this dossier has actually been taken up by the cabinet from day one. The records were in this file for bacon and beans. If other colleagues say that, according to an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate, the administration has also made mistakes, then I can only read the IF's opinion in which the inspector-general does not even bother to talk about this dossier. He's actually saying there's no such thing as this file. When it was said here at the last committee meeting that Mr Ledoux went wrong, that was true. Two days later, however, that error was corrected. If I find that the cabinet itself has gone wrong, then I can only conclude that, after more than a year, no signal has actually been given today. Ten days after the formation of the government, at the initiative of the cabinet, it is decided to contact Clifford Chance to carry out an assignment. I do not mention cabinet staff because I believe that if something happens in the cabinet, the minister, as head of the cabinet, is politically and administratively responsible. My question is very specific: what is the function of the cabinet employee who did so? Was that decision discussed with the minister? I see hot addresses are being used. Probably no delegation power was given to a cabinet employee, so that is purely legal responsibility of the minister. Madam Secretary, why did you contact Clifford Chance? We have received from the administration a different list of offices which have dealt with this in the past. Clifford Chance isn't on there. It's unknown. We just asked you to do that. On 22 or 23 October, a first link has already been established between the Cabinet and Clifford Chance and after that there has been a lot of mail traffic. As I said this morning, what happened between 3 and 4 November 2014 remains to be seen? On 3 November, an e-mail was sent stating that maybe three offices should be requested after all: "Stibbe, Philippe & Partners and Clifford Chance" and then it stops. The next morning, there's an e-mail saying that Clifford Chance is chosen. In the afternoon there is another e-mail in which Clifford Chance is congratulated for being chosen for that office, and by the way the price is asked for. At that time, more than ten days after the negotiations, the price is being asked. As I said earlier, no one among us is even going to buy a television and ask for the price only at the cash register. Initially, there were invoices amounting to 147 000 euros. Today we have a view of a billing of EUR 591 000. EUR 591 000, fellow Members! Can you imagine an employee in a company reporting that he has signed a contract of EUR 591 000, without having any political or responsible cover for it? What do you think the company will do with that employee? I ask you the question, ladies and gentlemen: do you know anyone in your immediate vicinity who can spend EUR 591 000 from his boss without any form of accountability? If you can call me such a company, I'll be glad to hear it. However, I must confess quite frankly that, although I know many people, I have not yet heard that someone is allowed to do so in the company where he or she works. So my question is exactly what happened. I'm joining the contract now. The essence of the story is the question where the contract is. Who signed it? Did you sign it yourself, Madam Secretary? I also got a list titled "Liste des documents non joints pour raison de secret professionnel. The contract's not on that list. Nor have I found the contract in my bundle. Where's the contract? The result of EUR 591 000 also raises questions. What have we already received for this amount? How can we, Members of Parliament, assess, in the context of our audit function, what results have been achieved for that amount? In fact, invoices can be sent, but the recipient can expect that they will be delivered. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our job to check whether or not these achievements have been properly achieved. It was said that the relationship with the administration was harmonious. When I questioned Mr Ledoux this morning, he said he didn't know anything about this contract. I find that very remarkable. There are five invoices. How can an auditor of the commitments pay them? On the basis of what instructions can a person from an administration pay invoices without a contract being submitted? Perhaps some here have followed more hours of administrative law than I have. Well, then I'll ask them to explain that to me, because in that class I probably brewed. But I've never seen anything like it in my career. Madam President, I will conclude with a number of specific questions. Madam Minister, for me, an award contract, an award report and an award decision is a contract award. Perhaps there has been another way in which someone received a blank cheque ten days after the installation of this government to begin with. Is that what happened? I hope there's a contract. Why was that office chosen? Is there perhaps a table with the plus and minus points of the offices? If so, I'd like to get that table. With regard to public procurement procedures, the following. I fully understand the colleagues from the MR who are now saying, with regard to the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate, that it did not happen well in the past, among previous ministers. That's probably right, because I read that advice too. However, if one is very honest and reads the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate correctly, it must be noted that this contract has not done so well either. Why not? Why were things not done according to the legislation in force? The urgency and other elements cited here cannot be discussed because the invoice shows that there are other contracts. Finally, Madam Secretary, if you look at the entire file with all the e-mails that you may have read yesterday or today, do you think this is a normal procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased to hear yesterday from the press that you agreed to a non-aggression pact with the President of the Mobility FPS. In any case, the latter was not aggressive this morning. He's been overwhelming. Serein, it was factual and precise. It was overwhelming to the extent that he stated that it had never happened that a minister came with his own law firm, that he imposed it on his administration, that he did not compete for benefits that are still not known specifically. I would like to stress this because it has been fifteen days since we have been trying in vain to get an answer to this central question. We have copies of the invoices, but we don't know what they're based on. I'll meet you here, Mr. Geerts. In any case, there is no mandate from the administration, which is also unprecedented. In addition, Mr. Ledoux stated that he had refused, on the basis of legal advice from his legal unit, to grant a warrant to Clifford Chance. In doing so, on what basis do you send these invoices for payment today? Is there a mission letter? Are there any terms of reference? If so, can we know them specifically? Can we know if they have evolved? Indeed, according to some of Clifford Chance's e-mails, they were solicited as early as October 23. In fact, it was the first mission entrusted to them, which concerned the overflight of Brussels. At that time, there was no question of State aid. What was the exact task assigned to this firm? What justified your failure to comply with the procurement rule? Furthermore, the President of the Mobility FPS stated that he had only recently discovered the text of the draft law on which his opinion had been sought. He made it clear to us that his opinion had been extremely negative. Do you confirm that he was not involved in the drafting of the text? I would add that he also informed us that Belgocontrol had been associated with it. Do you confirm that Belgocontrol had access to this text before your services, before your administration? Has Belgocontrol made any corrections? We were all able to discover this text, which was extremely alarming. Finally, I would like to know if you will meet the deadlines announced. You have promised a whole series of measures, and that is what the people and the people of Brussels expect on the issue of the overflight of Brussels. Will you be able to provide a text that will significantly reduce nuisances while allowing an economic development of the airport that respects the health and safety of residents? This question is central. I hear the majority extending to the administrative error initially accepted by the administration this morning and which it hastened to correct. I think this is a new representation of the fable of straw and the beam. The administration has acknowledged an error while the majority and the Prime Minister have so far recognized only an administrative malice. It is time for the political world to set an example and, in comparison with such heavy and unprecedented mistakes, you have at least the courage, Madam Minister, to acknowledge a political mistake committed by your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, thank you for being here on a dossier that already has a lot of losers. First of all, it will be difficult for you to manage this important domain in a credible way. Further on, your records. As far as I am concerned, the report of the Treasury Inspectorate is also an important document which requires steps to be taken. Then there is the specific dossier that concerns a lot of people, whether they live north, south, east or west of the airport. The file isn't getting any better because of the vaudeville of the past few weeks. Also your important policy area mobility. For example, we, as ecologists, are very much looking forward to the reforms in SNCB, which you must manage. Precisely and for me the most fundamental: our political style, this house, politics. As a result of your actions and those of my fellow Members from the majority, the impression is once again that a minister can seem to afford everything and even be above the law for this majority. I regret that, because that is dangerous for all of us, which is an important defeat for all of us, from which our group pays particular attention to this dossier. What bothers me most, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, is the lightness with which you, Madam Minister, deal with this dossier. We were initially allowed to record your line of defence in the committee of 28 October and then in the media. You are trying to dismiss this as an administrative error, supported by the Prime Minister, who should, in principle and above all, leave no doubt about ethics, transparency and democracy. What bothers me most today, and that brings me back to what we have been through this morning, is that in those circumstances this majority has the guts to deal with the administration of this dossier with the two feet ahead. I look forward to the presentation by Mr Raskin, I look forward to the presentation by Mrs Lijnen and Mr Van den Bergh. Will you now have the courage to ask this Minister questions? Will you be as sharp as this morning? Will you take a short turn after you've done this morning? Will you be as critical to this minister today as you were earlier to the top of the administration? If you are equally critical of the Minister, you will withdraw your support and you will no longer be able to defend this dossier. So, Mr Raskin, I am very much looking forward to your statement. I would like to see the strength of the change in this dossier. I hear the N-VA say that this has always been done in the past for 25 years of socialism. Now, the new PS has arrived! That's how it used to be done, so that's how we do it today. Mr Raskin, that is why I want to hear you on this dossier. I want to hear what the largest Flemish party thinks of multiple infringements of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u29	Mr. Calvo, don't call Mr. Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u30	I understand that making a comparison with the PS is a bit difficult for the president to accept. But I think I have the right to speak in this committee. Madam Secretary, I have a few specific questions. I'll question the Prime Minister about your political functioning on Friday. My questions to you are aimed at getting an even better understanding of the file. I must, of course, return to your statements in this committee on 28 October, when you said that not you or your cabinet but the administration took the lead. Will you stick with that today? From all the documents we have been able to look at, we clearly see a very great love of your cabinet for that one law firm. Secondly, I agree with my fellow Members when they say that in the first phase, for the limited task, there is room for discussion and interpretation. However, I cannot follow that reasoning for the final assignment and the final work, by which I mean the very extensive assignment given to the law firm by your cabinet. Madam Minister, has your administration given an opinion to your cabinet to this effect, in which the administration says that you could indeed act in this way for that task? Mr Ducarme is suggesting this. The mission was extended, but where can we find it in the documents? I do not read anywhere that you and your cabinet have, in this way, awarded or applied for that assignment. Where's that document? Thirdly, what happened in this question, Mr Geerts, between 3 and 4 November? On 3 November, everything was organized in a different way, after advice and corrections of the administration, because three offices would be questioned. On 4 November, it suddenly becomes clear that this question is not going to happen and that there is no more price. You seem to be signing a blank cheque with your cabinet there. What happened on November 4th in your cabinet? Madam Minister, is it common for your cabinet to be told to work together and later to look at what it will cost the taxpayer? After all, that is apparently the way to work. Fourthly, what did you have to hide from your own administration all these months? This is, after all, the most important news item of the day, following Mr Ledoux's presentation here this morning. The administration has knocked on your cabinet three times to know what that law firm, which you are so in love with, is actually doing, how wide they are working, how expensive they are working, what it is going to cost the Belgian State. Up to three times, your cabinet has not replied. What's the reason for that? What did you and your cabinet have to hide all these months? Fifth, you said you'd cancel that contract. The panic football in this file has at some point led to your statement to cancel the contract. I and my group have the following question. I claim that contract. I want to see that contract, because if a contract is terminated, there is a contract, unless you have lied to Parliament and public opinion again in this area. Where's the contract you canceled? It's not in the pieces. Can you put that on the table today? Or isn't there a contract? But it seems to me, Mr Ducarme, absolutely crazy that EUR 590 000 is being implemented without any formal agreement. Finally, Madam Minister, do you intend to pay out the 590 000 euros in its entirety? Has the assignment you have given to that office in some dark way been fully executed? Are you willing to pay for that big cost? These are a number of questions that I hope to get a clear answer to. The fact that we have great doubts about your functioning, Mrs Galant, and your political future, has already become clear, but it seems logical to me to question the Prime Minister in particular, who has to accept his responsibility in this matter and who has to look beyond the next MR survey. I look forward to your answers, Madam Minister, on these specific points.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u31	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u32	Mr Raskin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u33	Madam President, Mr Calvo, I have good news and bad news for you. The good news is that my party will not be abstaining in the debate shortly. The bad news for you is that, unfortunately, I will not speak. We are a rather large group. My colleague De Coninck will observe the honours. If you would like to hear the message from me again after the committee in my office, I would like to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u34	Madam President, it is true that we have not presented an interplay, but we would like to ask for the floor in the light of the discussion we have had over the last few days. Since Mr Calvo has just spoken to us twice in person and has done so again this afternoon, we have no choice but to do so. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not the most successful day in my career as a Member of Parliament. Until yesterday, discussions of draft laws were still on the agenda of our committee, namely the amendment of the 1991 law, an important law by the way. We have all been elected to do legislative work and to control the government. It is clear, of course, that we are suspending our normal work if there is a presumption of illegality and that we are therefore making time for interplays and a mini-debate on the Clifford Chance case today in committee. After all, as I have already said, it is our job to control the government. The question today is whether or not the law firm has been correctly designated. We have been able to examine the dossier in detail. All the documents have been made available to us. There is also an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. Mr Ledoux also admitted very quickly this morning that he was wrong in his e-mail of 29 October in saying that no three prices should be charged. He has also repeated this a number of times, for the sake of clarity. Whether it would have been illegal and who is responsible for this, we have never heard clearly. Apparently, it is not so obvious to get an answer to that. Even the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate, which we discussed this morning, is nuanced. Madam Minister, this is a specific task relating to public procurement legislation. It concerns the appointment of a lawyer to intervene in a state aid case. It would be a pity that the Belgian government would not be represented by a lawyer in these trials. Other Members of this House have just referred to it in committee and during Question Time that the Belgian authorities have not once been represented. I do not think anyone, ladies and gentlemen, would welcome it if something like this had happened again. Madam Minister, I have a very clear question for you: is the scheme for asking for three prizes and for a public contract to be carried out also for particular sectors, as clearly there was one? It's about aviation and aviation safety. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have just heard Mr Calvo fillinate strongly against us. If you're so sure about your play, go to court. File a complaint and let's file a criminal case. There are institutions for that. Now it seems to me to be mainly a bluff from the opposition to our government. Our government, with a French-speaking party, is still holding on and is continuing on the road to change. Unfortunately, in recent days, we have also found that the opposition file is clearly much wider than the appointment of Clifford Chance. My question is therefore whether we are still having a legal discussion here or whether it is rather a political discussion. It seems to me to be a political debate which has also been stirred up by the French-speaking opposition. It has been said here this morning, because the Flemish press is much less alive. Political discussions must be held here, Mr Calvo, and not in the media. (Protests from Mr Calvo) It must be serious debates, Mr Calvo, not a so-called legal error.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u35	Mr. Calvo, we heard you. Mrs De Coninck, I ask you to ask the minister your questions. There is no debate between Commissioners. Today, the minister answers the questions. We will be able to hold political debates at the right time, because it is here that they must be held. But for now, Mrs De Coninck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u36	Madam Minister, I actually wanted to hear your opinion on the fact that the debate here is getting much wider. Those who have sparked the debate are best placed to show their true nature with regard to this "moustique éléphant'. Is the problem with the appointment of Clifford Chance, or is it the content of the flight law? Madam Secretary, can you give your opinion on that? Madam Secretary, I'm finishing up. We have seen that cooperation with Mr Ledoux is far from obvious. What steps will you take to restore good cooperation between the cabinet and your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u37	Madam Minister, first of all, I agree with what Mr Calvo has said. I also agree with Mrs De Coninck's comment. It is indeed not a good day for politics. It is not a good day for Parliament because of the way in which we come out with today's story. I would also like to endorse what Mr Maingain has just said, namely that it is only evident that the legislative and executive powers, in the first instance, also comply effectively with the rules and laws they issue. It is therefore very important, Madam Minister, that we hear from you today how the procedure has been carried out and how it is actually in line with the relevant legal procedure. It would be a good thing if you were to go over that step by step, and it would be a good thing to clarify afterwards whether everything really went according to the rules or whether there might have been some difficulties of interpretation here and there, as the Finance Inspectorate's report said yesterday. If that is the case, lessons must also be learned from these difficulties. My question is as follows. What lessons can be learned from the story? How can we avoid such incidents in the future? Another element in which I stayed still for a long time this morning is the confidence between you and your administration. It has just been said that Mr Ledoux's speech this morning was very serene. I have reservations about that. Madam Minister, a matter is clear. The water between you and Mr Ledoux, the head of administration, is very deep, which raises questions, in particular about future cooperation on a number of very important policy dossiers to be carried out in the coming weeks and months, such as the reorganisation of SNCB, mobility files, road safety files and not least the distribution plan. Madam Minister, my final question is very specific. How do you expect to get enough confidence with your administration to successfully complete those files?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u38	Madam Minister, there are a number of people here who have a very selective interpretation at this morning's sitting. This morning we heard some pertinent falsehoods. In my speech this morning, I indicated how the discourse was gradually adapted; I will not repeat that. In any case, it raises doubts about the credibility of the whole story this morning. Madam Secretary, it is essential to provide the right answers to all our questions here. There are very concrete examples of why you appointed Clifford Chance. Mr Ledoux clearly stressed this morning that he had a very great appreciation for Stibbe's office, although his e-mails to your head of your cabinet show that the opposite is true. How was the office chosen? When and by whom was the assignment entrusted? Is there a signed contract? What are the invoicing arrangements? What invoices have already been received? A very important question for the functioning of both the FOD and the cabinet is how to deal with the leaks. Mr Ledoux replied this morning that this should be possible. He felt that, if an administration did not agree with the texts drawn up by the cabinet and the employees in the administration were frustrated, it would be normal for leaks to be leaked. That is a dangerous statement; we must beware of it. It is up to the government to set the political line, it is up to the minister, to implement that political line, it is up to the administration, to support the minister and the cabinet in it. It is not for the administration to leak important preparatory texts. Madam Secretary, how will you deal with this? I have just asked the chairman of the FPS if he will investigate. He said that that is impossible and that there is no budget for it. However, it is important to check where the leaks come from and to determine responsibilities in this respect. How do we deal with this in the future? What do we learn from the file? This has already been underlined by a number of fellow Members: what lessons will we learn from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u39	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, I reread your remarks of October 28 as they appear in the Minutes. "In any case, it is up to the administration and not to the minister or his cabinet to place orders and other public contracts, whatever they may be, and to take appropriate steps with the Inspectorate of Finance, if necessary, even if these orders would be placed at the request of the minister or his cabinet." The principle is clear. Has it applied in this case? First, would you dare say that it was the administration that had the ability to enter into the service contract with Clifford? If so, do you have proof of this and on the basis of what criteria? If not, on the basis of what criteria and in accordance with the law, has your firm chosen this law firm? Secondly, is this administration – and would you dare to say so? – who determined Clifford's mission? If so, do you have proof of this? If not, who determined it? If it is your firm, can you give any items that have not yet been produced, mailed or e-mailed to the firm Clifford determining the extent of its mission? Thirdly, would you dare to say that the administration has received in real time, with the invoices of fees and benefits, the details justifying these invoices of fees that we still do not have and which the administration claims not to have fully available? If this is not the case, can you submit here all the documents attached to Clifford's fee and benefit invoices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u40	Minister, I feel like every day your case gets a little worse. It's not the hearing this morning that's gonna fix things. I have five questions. The first concerns the documents you refuse to give. You have provided us with a list of documents divided into six categories, which you refuse to forward to us, including details of invoices and invoices receivable. It's totally incomprehensible. Why can't we see these bills? I ask you to provide them and all the amounts involved, i.e. the amounts invoiced by Clifford and the provisional and estimated amounts for 2015. The second question relates to the documents you are not talking about, in particular this famous contract, whether or not passed - we do not know -, oral or written with Clifford, but also all the emails that follow the date of December 19, 2014, the date on which the documents you provided us expire. This morning, Mr. Ledoux spoke of the eight months of silence during which he no longer heard of Clifford Chance. If that's not true, prove it with documents. Third question, why did you choose Clifford? What cases are they involved in? The cases in question range from the strategic reflection on state aid, the response to the European Union - which has passed, without knowing why, from the firm Stibbe to the firm Clifford in three days apart, according to the content of the emails - to Belgocontrol and the air law. Fourth question, why has there not been a call for tenders? If I refer to Mr Ledoux's hearing this morning, Mr Ledoux makes a distinction between practice and rules. When it comes to litigation, it does not seem too serious, but when it comes to legal advice, it is absolutely necessary to call for tenders. I find this distinction somewhat doubtful, since when the rule imposes something, it must be applied in all cases. Mr Ledoux tells us that, a fortiori, when it comes to a legal opinion, a call for tenders is indispensable and, according to the documents, you were aware of this requirement. Fifth question, to paraphrase Test-Achats, is the value of Clifford's price/quality ratio. From the moment you do not follow the normal tendering procedure, has the government paid the fair price for the services rendered? I have the impression that in terms of price/quality ratio, we are reaching peaks in terms of maximum price for a minimum service. From what Mr. Ledoux told us and what the documents say - you will probably confirm it to us - we realize that the air law written by Clifford was a waste and that it had to be rewritten in its entirety. Tendering helps to avoid this kind of disaster with a law firm that is more expensive than most other law firms. Isn't it the day they met you that this firm Clifford became the firm Clifford Chance?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to be here so that I can bring a little serenity back into this whole matter, after several days of intense agitation. It is important to go back to the substance of the case, namely the appointment of lawyers within the Mobility FPS and my firm. Behind all these accusations, all these claims, all the exploitation that has been made of them for several days, there remains a fundamental issue for the public health and economic development of our country: the issue of the overflight of Brussels and the operation of the airport. I have not chosen ease by accepting the charge that is mine and I am aware of it. I wish to work in depth to resolve a complex and controversial issue for many years. I have also been confronted with a number of contentious proceedings pending before the Belgian courts, which called for a swift stance on my part. It is also a matter for me to implement the government agreement aimed at a lasting solution for nuisances around the airport. Today I have a renewed determination to work with all stakeholders on a lasting solution. Here I would like to thank my staff and the administrative staff who work tirelessly every day to advance the issue and I regret that the polemics of the past few days have potentially tarnished the reputation of their work. Did I lie? Have I shown no transparency? I was able to read in the press that I would have lied in this file. No, I didn't lie! And I can look you in the white of my eyes by telling you that. The October 28 parliamentary committee reports on the first appointment of Clifford. I transmitted the e-mails I had at that time. As a result of the media rush, of all the rather surprising leaks in the press, with my entire team, we took advantage of this week of Toussaint to build up a file and search for all those emails that were already published in the press. Everything was tabled this Monday at 8 a.m., as agreed, in the Presidency, for the Conference of Speakers of the House. They have been transmitted to you in their entirety. This will allow you to analyse things and the course of events in an objective way. I hope you will conduct this analysis because to hear some, I'm not sure you've read all the e-mails. It had been requested by some of you other documents such as details of invoices, notes and e-mails exchanged between my firm, the SPF and the law firm. Both the French and Dutch Order's batons have reminded us in this regard of the rules of professional secrecy which constitute exceptions to the application of the law on the advertising of the administration. They wrote to the Speaker of the House. I will respect this professional secrecy, not out of deliberate will to hide things, but out of respect for the law. I also asked for a report from the Finance Inspectorate as a matter of urgency. The task of the Finance Inspectorate was twofold: on the one hand, to report on the methodology and follow-up within my FPS for the award of legal contracts since 1 January 2014 and, on the other hand, to verify that all lawyers who act on behalf of the State and send to the FPS their fees have been appointed in accordance with the law currently in force. Since the committee on 28 October 2015, I have not made any statements, voluntarily, pending the report of the Finance Inspectorate and in order to respect the parliamentary debate. I would like to remind you that I wish to be able to answer your questions in a calm manner in this committee. As far as the chronology of the facts is concerned, let us first turn to this chronology, supported by the documents you received yesterday. I took the oath on 11 October 2014 and then started putting together my cabinet. As early as 16 October, we were faced with the dispute files relating to flights above Brussels and state aid, in which very short deadlines had to be observed, on the penalty of non-optimal representation and defence of the Belgian State. From the outset, the chairman of the FOD informs us that the trust in the office responsible for the representation of the State has been violated. That is why, at that time, we want to look for another counselor, who should not have a conflict of interest in the case of flights above Brussels. The name Clifford is then pushed forward. After searching, the chairman of the FOD confirmed that the said law firm Clifford has no conflict of interest with regard to the file of flights above Brussels. The first contacts with Clifford were made by the President of the SPF on 23 October. This is the first e-mail from the inventory you received yesterday morning. A telephone interview was held between Laurent Ledoux and Clifford regarding the overflight. It's the first e-mail, I'll call him back. Contact continues on 29 October 2014 between the SPF and the firm Clifford exclusively on the issue of state aid – a very urgent issue. A working meeting to explain the case is scheduled for October 29 for November 3, 2014 to see if Clifford is able to handle the case. At that time, nothing was decided. On 29 October, the exchange of e-mails, interspersed with telephone communications, between Laurent Ledoux and my firm began on the procedure to be used for the appointment of a law firm and the fixing of fees. On the same date, the SPF states, after analysing the procedure applied in the most usual way by the legal service, that it is not necessary to go through a procedure with three offers for legal services, in order to arrive at a decision on the appointment of Clifford for the State aid file and the mandate of the legal services of the Mobility SPF by its President with regard to the investigation of the case, after numerous comments and questions by exchange of emails, interspersed with telephone communications, the exhaustive list of which has been transmitted to you. This is the email from 7 November 2014 at 7:01 p.m. The firm did not follow up on this mandate. On November 7, 2014, at 16.48 p.m., my firm's lawyer, Mr. Demonceau, asked the President of the CPS to take the necessary steps with the administration for the formal mandate of the firm Clifford Chance. Mr Ledoux sent the second e-mail, dated 19.00 p.m., entitled "Office of the Cabinet", to the head of his legal department. The same procedure for the appointment of the firm Clifford has been followed by my firm for the other files – a method of designation that does not differ from how to proceed within the Mobility FPS for years with respect to litigation or pre-content cases, and in particular with the firm Stibbe for the issue of the overflight. I'm not making up anything, it's in the Finance Inspectorate's report; I'll come back to that. The FPS has been associated with cases under jurisdiction, but the remediation work has remained internal to my firm for understandable political reasons. Laurent Ledoux, on 23 October, further stated that the entire state aid dossier was managed by the former firm. This is an e-mail that we did not put on file, but we have it. In conclusion, it can be said, in relation to the timing and the unfolding of the facts, that the SPF was associated with the appointment of the law firm Clifford for the first case concerning State aid, between 29 October and 7 November 2014. The method of designation also does not differ from practices within the Mobility FPS. However, this does not resolve – I agree with you – the question of the legality, at this stage, of the method of designation. And I would like to continue with the reason for an outside consultation. Because we also said I didn't want to work with the administration. I come in a context where there is a very large backlog of "surfing" disputes, especially against Brussels Air Libre, this being an example among others; a new dispute that continues to increase, whether it is the case of state aid to airlines or the "surfing" dispute; or even an annex dispute (a lady who wanted to obtain the contract for the sale of the airport). All of these cases require legal representation. These cases are of such a technical nature that external expertise in litigation or pre-contentious cases must be used. The urgency of each of these cases is indisputable. Often, cases involving referrals to the judiciary or in extreme urgency to the Council of State, with more and more penalties imposed by judges to the detriment of public finances. Why the firm Clifford Chance? In the case of State aid, there is a common desire on the part of the SPF and the firm to entrust the case to an external firm which is not in conflict of interest with the case of the overflight, within the framework of the air force in general, while preserving the expertise acquired by the firm Stibbe. Clifford's competence in state aid at European level, as well as an environmental expertise from the Brussels firm, is undisputed. The law firm Clifford is still listed among the Top 30 of the 2015 law offices, confirming its reputation and reputation. How was Clifford chosen? There is indeed a lack of competition which has been agreed with the SPF. In the end, three lawyers were not consulted, in accordance, I repeat, with the practices of the CPS in the appointment of its lawyers in the litigation. Mr Ledoux never denied this conclusion. The e-mail sent on 3 November 2014 at 5:48 p.m. concerns the budgetary procedure Inspection of Finance and Budget and not public procurement. For the first time this morning, he argues, for the purposes of the case, that he gave an oral opinion on 7 November 2014, which denies the instruction to his legal counsel. Mr. Rémy's email from the firm Clifford Chance on March 27th at 3.25 p.m. confirms that Mr. Ledoux negotiated the Clifford fare, which he gave you this morning, where it is stated: "We obviously apply the average hourly rate agreed with Bertrand and Laurent Ledoux". Beyond the advice of the administration, in recent days, I have asked my firm for a legal analysis. It turns out that it would be legitimate to interpret the law on public procurement, saying that a legal file emerges from the field of special sectors, transport in particular with a threshold for the negotiated procedure without publicity of EUR 414 000 HVAT and the urgency to settle this case and its legislative corollary. We'll get back to it. When was the mission entrusted? As I told you, for the "State aid" case, formally on 7 November 2014, but as far as the date of 29 October 2014 quoted in the press is concerned, it is in line with the practice among lawyers that, when they are approached to possibly be designated to attend a case, there are preliminary meetings and telephone interviews with the client who wishes to investigate them. This was the case in this case, since the SPF had telephone contacts with Clifford already on 23 October and as early as 29 October for the "State aid" case. With regard to the other files, file by file "contentious overview", "Law on Flight Procedures", "Financing of Belgocontrol", the appointment of the firm Clifford by my firm and in collaboration, for certain cases, with the firm Stibbe, for example on the various actions introduced in the context of the overflight of Brussels (...) These cases are all qualified as litigation or pre-contentious files. Was there a signed contract? Yes! There is a contract within the meaning of civil law, provided that there is an agreement of will on the performance of benefits at a regulated price. But no, this contract is not a signed contract, as there is also no contract signed with Stibbe and/or the other lawyers with whom the SPF works and as is the usual practice with lawyers. I hear again questions about the nature of the contract. There is a contract within the meaning of civil law as soon as there is an exchange agreement for the performance of benefits. There was no signed agreement with Clifford Chance, any more than there was, for example, a signed agreement with Stibbe. Was there a need for a public procurement? Excuse me, I'm gonna be a little technical. It's a little long, but this matter is complex, we've been demonstrating it for a few days. The law has changed steadily in recent years and this has only increased the complexity of the case. In fact, the Finance Inspectorate stresses this very well. Under the authority of the Law of 14 July 1976 on public contracts for works, supplies and services, the services provided by persons exercising the profession free of lawyers such as doctors or foreign exchange agents did not fall within the scope of Belgian rules on public contracts. The Law of 24 December 1993 on public procurement and on certain works, supplies and services contracts has changed the situation, not without a few questions. While the Law of 24 December 1993, Annex 2, Category B21 expressly referred to legal services, the specificity of legal services sometimes made the regulation on public procurement difficult, if not impracticable. Thus, article 68, paragraph 6, of the Royal Decree of 8 January 1996 on public works contracts, public supply contracts and public works concessions, which carried out this law, provided that public contracts for legal services are not subject to the obligation to consult a minimum number of service providers, at least when it concerns the representation of the parties before the courts. The report to the King stated that this resulted not only from the practical impossibility of such consultation, but also from the confidence required for such a service, and also from confidentiality. Article 43 of the Royal Decree of 10 January 1996 on public contracts for works, supplies and services in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors provided the same rule. The circular of 5 December 2008 on the application of the law of 24 December 1993, drawn up on the basis of the contribution of the Walloon Commission on Public Contracts and the Order of Bars, Francophones and German-speaking, explains: "In most cases, legal services of advice and representation before the courts are characterized by the unpredictability of the lawyer's services, due to the very nature of these services, the difficulty of stating objectively the criteria for the qualification, specialization and competence expected of the lawyer and the confidence of the relationship between the lawyer and his client, involving, inter alia, particular confidence and confidentiality between them." The Act of 15 June 2006 on public procurement and certain works, supplies and services contracts, which repealed the Act of 24 December 1993, entered into force on 1 July 2013. It has changed the subject matter again and it is the one that applies to the files that concern us today. The Act, Schedule 2, category B21, again applies to legal services, including counselling, assistance and representation provided by lawyers in a legal or non-judicial context. This legislation also makes it possible to use the negotiated procedure without publicity. Directive 2014/24 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18 and Directive 2014/25 of the European Parliament and of the Council still of 26 February 2014 on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17 should still be mentioned. These directives have entered into force at European level since 17 April 2014. They must be transposed into Belgian law by 16 April 2016. Articles 10 of Directive 2014/24 and 21 of Directive 2014/25 now provide that "they shall not apply to public service contracts for the purpose of legal representation of a client by a lawyer in the context of litigation or pre-contentious proceedings, either legal advice provided for the preparation of any litigation proceedings or where there are tangible signs and strong probabilities that the question to which the Council relates will be the subject of such proceedings, provided that counsel comes from a lawyer". On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Charles Michel, the Council of Ministers approved, at its meeting on 24 September 2015, a preliminary draft law to transpose these two directives into Belgian law. This preliminary draft was submitted to the Commission on Public Procurement, in which the Regions and the Communities are represented. As it stands, this draft law transposes articles 10 and 21 of the above directives into domestic law. What procedures were required not only for the appointment of lawyers in State aid, overflight and aviation safety cases, but also for any appointment of lawyers for legal services? As I said at the outset, there is the analysis of the Finance Inspectorate which recalls the rules very precisely for the so-called classic sectors. I fully share this analysis and Mr Bergen's conclusions. I have, for my part, analyzed things from a different angle. I shared this approach last night with the Finance Inspectorate. What exactly is the situation? The common feature of these cases is that they may fall within the scope of the regulation of public procurement in special sectors. They relate to the matter of air transport under Articles 50, 2 and 52, 4 of the Act of 15 June 2006. On the one hand, the State aid dossier relates to the financing of infrastructure linked to airport security and, on the other hand, the Brussels overflight and aviation safety dossiers relate to the provision of infrastructure for the benefit of air carriers. An order of the judge for interim measures in Liège of 30 July 2008 is hereby issued concerning measures to reduce the inconvenience suffered by the residents of the airport. I invite you to read Yves Cabuy on the new public procurement law in Belgium. These public contracts are awarded in principle either by invitation to tender or by tender or by negotiated procedure, with or without publicity (Title III of the Act of 15 June 2006, in particular Article 53 thereof). Therefore, the invitation to tender would not have been mandatory. It could be dealt with by negotiated procedure without publicity, i.e. the procurement procedure in which the contracting authority or the public undertaking consults the service providers of its choice and negotiates the terms of the contract with one or more of them. This procedure involves, if possible, consultation with service providers and is authorised where the expenditure to be approved does not exceed the amounts fixed by the King, i.e. a threshold of EUR 414 000 excluding VAT. The imperative urgency resulting from unforeseeable events for the contracting authority does not allow the deadlines required by the open, restricted or publicly negotiated procedure to be met. The use of this procedure does not imply an obligation of the provider(s) consulted to submit an offer in due form. The use of this procedure has real advantages where the provision of services cannot be delayed due to the time limits of the ordinary procedure or where advertising linked to another method of procurement is inadequate for reasons of confidentiality. It is also justified in terms of the unpredictability of the dispute(s). In addition to this, the particular circumstance is that these are highly political content files that imply and impose a full relationship of trust between the client and the lawyer. As for the consultation, if possible, of several providers, it is assessed on the basis of the type of market and its specificity. In this regard, the principle contained in Article 43 of the RA of 10 January 1996 on public contracts for works, supplies and services in the transport, water, energy and postal services sectors will be recalled. It provided that public contracts for legal services are not covered by this obligation to consult a minimum number of service providers, at least when they are intended to represent the parties before the courts, because of the practical impossibility of such consultation, but also because of the confidence and confidentiality of such services and the need to ensure confidentiality at this stage. Once again, I will have an exchange with the Inspector of Finance and the head of the legal service of my administration so that we can discuss this interpretation. With regard to the report of the Inspectorate of Finance, what does the Inspector of Finance tell us in response to the two questions asked? I would remind you that it is not just about the appointment of Clifford. He tells us that the regulation applicable to legal services contracts refers to the AR of 15 July 2011 relating to the award of public contracts in conventional sectors. In normal circumstances, it recommends that the procedure negotiated with publicity for both legal representation and consultancy services be used for the award of a legal services contract. It also recommends that for these two types of legal services contracts, competition should therefore be sought and several offers from service providers should be submitted. After a detailed analysis of certain contracts concluded by the Mobility FPS, he concluded by saying that the mobility FPS did not always comply with current public procurement rules for legal services contracts because several offers from different providers were not systematically solicited. It also states that this irregular practice has its origin in the habits acquired or the empire of the previous regulation. He also pointed out that the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate was not always sought. It obviously recommends that several offers should be submitted for the future, where possible, in order to compete. What about Clifford's billing? The billing formula chosen is the blended rate, i.e. a maximum average rate regardless of the type of partners or collaborators working on the files. I cannot reveal the exact amount although I have already been able to read it in the press. These financial data are confidential. As a reminder, their communication could be criminalized, article 458 of the Criminal Code: violation of professional secrecy. In reviewing invoices issued to date, the average hourly rate is ultimately lower than the agreed rate. These invoices arrived at the Mobility FPS on October 1, 2015, before arriving at the BNB service on October 13. Compared to other similar lawyers working for the CPS, this average rate charged is also lower. I would like to point out that the firm Clifford Chance, contrary to what may have been written or said, is not an expensive firm or three times more expensive than other firms working with the Mobility FPS. The opinion of the Finance Inspectorate was obtained ex post, on October 1, 2015, for all the files handled by Clifford – I would remind you that there is not only one file but several – with estimated fee budgets for the entire period. The estimated 2015 provisional air legal aid commitments are as follows: financing of Belgocontrol, estimated €35 000 VATC, state aid €107 000 VATC, noise and litigation €228 000 VATC. For information, on the basis of the invoices received to date and the invoices to be received decided on 16 October 2015 for the financing of Belgocontrol, we are at EUR 38 736,73 VAT included, for state aid to EUR 125 993 VAT included, and for flight routes to EUR 203 390 VAT included, i.e. below the estimates presented to the Finance Inspectorate. In summary, the SPF received invoices for a total amount, including VAT, of EUR 147,318.79. I asked Clifford to tell me the amount to be invoiced. He communicated to me amounts of 220 802.45 euros for the period from 19 March to 16 October. What about the alleged conflict of interest between my chief of staff and Clifford Chance? No, I affirm and repeat, there is no conflict of interest between my chief of staff and this law firm. The previous employer of my chief of staff worked with this office of lawyers among others and worked even before her arrival. She never worked for this firm. She's not a lawyer. She is an economist and has no family ties near or far. No member of my firm has a direct or indirect connection to this firm, and personally, neither do I. What steps will I take in response to this report from the Finance Inspectorate? Last night, I met with the financial inspector for quite a long time and after an exchange, he advises us on the following actions: to allow the ongoing procedures to continue until they are completed with the legal advice previously appointed and for the future, to work on the basis of subscriptions or stock markets or framework contracts, respecting, depending on the amounts, the most appropriate procedure. I have proposed to Mr Berger that he should sit around the table with the SPF, its president and its legal department to jointly define the most appropriate procedure for cases that may arise in the future. He assured me of his full availability. I will therefore ask my administration to make every effort as soon as possible to ensure that these new procedures are applied in each department and department of the FPS immediately. These procedures will also be echoed within my firm. Even more intensive collaboration with the services of the SPF will be required of all my collaborators, with much more rigour. I will not allow any exceptions. In conclusion, in the spirit and conscience and in the circumstances I have been confronted with, I humbly consider that I have not attempted to circumvent public procurement regulations or favoured a law firm. It turns out that the financial inspector insists on the need for several offers to be submitted where possible in order to compete. I am committed, with the Mobility FPS, to enforcing this regulation. I acted in good faith. The administrative imprudentness that was mine will serve as a lesson to me in the exercise of my duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, you have passed through the various laws and royal decrees that applied to public procurement. As yesterday, you flooded us with e-mails; we read them all. One thing is interesting about what you said. You said that this law firm specializes in environmental matters and is known on the Place de Bruxelles. You're the one who said it. When we look at Chambers Europe, the directory of the law firms most respected by the lawyers themselves, we find that Clifford Chance is not even included in the ranking on European issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u43	In public law, it is also not included or ranked among the best. It is true that in the area of competition law it is considered in Group Three. I quote the ranking in question. There are seven Belgian Brussels firms that precede it. Clifford is not a specialist in aeronautics. The emoluments requested do not correspond to the expertise you claim this firm has. At no time in your speech did you mention the words "airport law" or "Vliegwet". However, the bulk of the budget which has been allocated and which will be spent for the rest of the year concerns the drafting of a preliminary bill. Was this contract unlawful or not? I think it's been illegally passed, but in any case, the relationship with your administration is so detestable – we've had proof of this since this morning – that you needed a new trust relationship with a business firm that has nothing to do with public law, environmental law or aeronautical law to write this draft bill. Not only did you lie to the committee on 28 October last – the words I took up earlier, you made them and they proved to be incorrect – but you also lied to your administration because you contracted with a law firm on state aid. That's what you told Mr. Ledoux. That's what you told the SPF. In fact, this firm is working on legal advice and a host of other cases, a law on Belgocontrol and an aeronautical law. So you lied to your administration to make him a kind of child behind his back that will cost taxpayers the €500,000 badtel. Beyond your problems with the figures, beyond your problems with the contract which does not exist, beyond all these problems, how will you do politically, Madam Minister, to work on what you have set out for a year structural solutions for people flying over Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia, when you have this detestable relationship with your administration and that this administration (DGTA, the Mobility FPS) will have to implement the law that you drafted on its back? How are you going to do that? You're in dirty sheets, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u44	Minister, I am a little surprised at the tone of your answer, the fact that your arguments have not evolved and that you dare say different things here. I'd like to hear you say again that it's not your firm that designated Clifford, but it's the administration. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u45	Yes. You have the e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u46	Excuse me, Madam President, I'm going to be a little longer than I expected. Let's get the e-mails back. On November 3, at 5:52 p.m., Betrand Demonceau spoke of Stibbe and others. I read you the e-mail: "Hello, Mr. Laurent, following our discussions...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u48	Madam Minister, I've let you talk. Like you, I read e-mails. I repeat: "... it seems that we can consult the following three cabinets:...". So, Mr. Dumonceau, that I find a remarkable collaborator, on the advice of your FPS Mobility says we're going to consult three firms. He continues: "How do we proceed? Are you writing the call for tenders or are you consulting the Finance Inspectorate? Thank you." Here's what he writes to the president of your Mobility FPS. On 4 November, the same Mr. Dumonceau wrote: "After discussion with Dominique, we will operate as follows: Stibbe will follow up on legal proceedings and will draw up with the SPF the response to the European Commission. Clifford Chance will reflect on the government's future strategy for measures towards the airport sector (...) Should there be a formal CPS approach to Clifford? I (Mr. Bertrand) will contact Clifford to explain the outline." So, minister, I maintain my position: I think it is indeed your office that has appointed the cabinet of Clifford. And I didn't mention copying because I don't know. You said that you had filed all the documents; other documents were filed by the Mobility FPS, including all billing emails and emails where he was waiting for billing. Again, the documents were not filed. Then there was your demonstration to drown the fish! You demonstrate that when you ask a law firm to work on important topics, you do "top-up" without a contract, no agreement, no mission letter, no mission outline, no time-sheet, no anything! You imagine that the citizen is saying, "This is how the state works. " I tap into the hand of a large law firm – whose skills I don't question – and he can send me all the bills he wants for a year! Madam Minister, I would like you to invoke the Civil Code, but I hope that you are a little more rigorous, I hope that the state is a little more rigorous. I hope that good management is different today at the top of the state because I really care! You question the demonstration, the advice of the Finance Inspectorate that you need a market and your Mobility FPS. When you say that you are in the transportation sector and that writing a draft bill on the overflight, on the tracks, on the roads is pre-contentious, that means that you don't believe very strongly in peace and that your bill will calm the game. When you talk about transport, you confuse a market for the operation of tram lines, for example, with a market for the legal study of the tram line. And what did you ask? A legal study! A draft bill is obviously not an infrastructure! Minister, in your interpretation of drowning fish, you are talking about the law before, the current law and the future law. You are being asked to apply the current law! I think your administration reminded you of that. Minister, I expected you to take your responsibilities, not to talk about administrative recklessness. Once again, you reject everything about your administration. I'm talking about political responsibility. You mentioned the beginnings of your office, but you never invoked urgency in your e-mails. Moreover, the opinion of the FI does not mention it either. If you did, it would be included in the IF report, as the urgency is indicated for other files. In the name of political responsibility, it is necessary to assume its faults and mistakes in order to draw all the consequences. Now cry: "I will do this or that" without assuming what you and your cabinet decided a year ago, while in charge of an administration composed of 1,100 collaborators, I find it sad on the part of a minister. Mrs Galant, I sincerely thought that you were going to acknowledge your firm's mistakes and admit that your firm had properly designated the firm Clifford, that you had been asked to abide by the rules of public procurement, but that you did not, while promising to be more rigorous and attentive from now on. I didn't hear any of this. I only heard a charge against an administration. That is totally regrettable. Again, I think you're hiding some truths from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u49	Minister, I do not hide from you the great disappointment that your answers inspire me. When I saw the arrival yesterday of a lot of documents that were finally delivered to us, when they had been widely relayed in the press, I had the great hope that you would give complete answers to this committee in full transparency, as you had committed yourself to doing. I note that this debate unfortunately does not answer our questions in any way. Indeed, you come out of the facts that you had already mentioned on 28 October, but which have been challenged on several occasions by other notes and analyses. This lacks dignity, because the public expects answers and hopes that the principle of "responsible, but not guilty" or of rejecting fault on third parties will not be applied. It expects its political leaders to have dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u50	In your answer, the statements you make include errors. You say that the 3 November e-mail concerning the financial procedure indicates that the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate is required. However, in this e-mail, it is also indicated that a reasonable period of consultation is required. This is not just a budgetary procedure. It is an appeal and competitive process in which it takes seven days for a firm to be consulted and to submit an offer. What you're saying is not true. There is an e-mail in which you are told that you have to make a call and compete and that it takes at least seven days because you are in a hurry. This point is therefore incorrect. On the other hand, the interpretation you give of special sectors is a legal error. I don't know who advised you. I hope that it is not the same that (...) in which case I ask myself serious questions about the answers that have been provided. This is not a special sector. Otherwise, this would mean that the entire Mobility FPS would no longer be subject to any contract, any public procurement. That's not what you're telling us. I have article 50 here. I am not going to start listing articles, as you have done, to try to drown fish, but we are not entering a special sector of public procurement. We need a call for tenders, a call for competition. At least three offers were required. How about 48 hours – and you haven't explained why – you change your shoulder rifle and decide overnight that Clifford has been designated, while your firm is preparing a tender with the administration? Those answers, you didn't give them. You have certainly given a lot of legal elements, elements about what was going on before, and what is going to happen later, but on what is happening now, you have tried to find a mess with the Special Sectors Act. I wonder who you are advised by because, if it is by your firm, I do not understand why this note has not already arrived on 28 October since that is what we were contesting at the time. Why didn't she arrive on October 28? I am extremely disappointed and I think that you do not accept a series of mistakes that have been committed. The political debate would have gained dignity if that had been so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u51	Madam Minister, in addition to all the documents that you have made available to us, I would like, first of all, to thank you for coming back to the chronology of the facts and for giving you this transparency exercise, as we understand it, useful for Parliament. I would also like to say that we appreciate the fact that, despite the media's ups and downs, you have favoured the exchange with Parliament on this issue rather than statements in the press. Indeed, the media rush could have given you the temptation to respond to the reproaches that have been made to you. But you respected the parliament. The parliamentarians we are must recognize this aspect of things and the dignity that you demonstrate. It was also useful to take care of lame ducks, although some felt that it was rather a question of drowning fish. In any case, we heard a lot about this case. We even questioned your chief of staff. To achieve such excesses is difficult to accept. But you've clarified things. You also responded to some opposition members who accused you of picking up the most expensive firm in the market by informing them that their fees are part of the standard in terms of hourly costs. Again, we tried to load the boat. The situation had to be clarified, that's what you did. There's another element I appreciate. We know the context. We know what we've been through this morning. We know the communication difficulties that exist with the head of your administration. But that's not why you charged Mr. Ledoux. In this case, you have also shown the political dignity that can be expected of a minister. You simply – it was useful to say – said that he had been associated with Clifford's choice. You went back to the Finance Inspectorate's report. In this respect, Mrs Lalieux, I am not following you at all and if you want to answer me, you will have to go down again from your seat as president. I'm sorry about your back and forth. You claim that the consequences are not drawn; I cannot follow you. The minister tells you very clearly, with the useful humility associated with the upheavals caused by this issue in Parliament, that she must learn the lessons of this episode. She's telling us about the administrative recklessness she's assuming. She also tells us that she intends to ensure that new procedures are applied by her department, which she intends to put around the table the Finance Inspectorate, her SPF, her SPF president, herself, to ensure that the rules are fully respected. When you say that it does not draw the consequences, I cannot agree with your comments. I'm from Mrs. Galant's party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u53	You can laugh! I think the majority agrees that Mrs Galant is fully prepared to learn from what has happened. Let us recognize that the context is extremely rough in terms of public procurement. The head of the administration has come to tell us this morning that he has assumed, that he has been wrong for a year. Yes, we have not complied with the rules for a year and a half since the beginning of 2014! You realize what context we need to work in! It must be a collective lesson. The idea is not to charge the minister or the administration. The idea is to re-establish compliance with the standard. I have heard you well in this regard. [[I have heard of your willingness to bring together the actors in this field.]] Ms Matz, since the beginning of 2014, under successive ministers, the rules have not been complied with in terms of public procurement. Dignity for everyone, Mrs Matz, and especially in relation to what has raised your responsibilities at the head of this department since 2014! You're a cdH, aren't you? I'm not mistaken. We have to move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u54	Madam Minister, at the beginning of your reply you say that you did not lie and that you gave all the documents in all transparency. Colleagues, I'm sorry, but I'm finding something else. I can give you some examples which show that we do not have all the documents. After the Minister's explanation, I had hoped that she would have read her e-mails in order not to pass on the blackhead to the administration, but that will continue to happen today. In an attempt to drown the fish, the award procedures are discussed here. I can tell you in 30 seconds that you have been kept to that. There is the European Directive 2004/18 with the ordinary rules and Directive 2004/17 with the excluded sectors. Even with allusion to the excluded sectors, you can never appeal to them. There are contracting authorities in the aviation sector, including Belgocontrol and several airports, but that list does not contain the word "Minister'. Your speech will therefore lapse into thin air. Even more severe. You ask who is responsible and you say again: the administration. We can prove on the basis of the information that your head of the cabinet already gave the administration the telephone number on October 22 with the order to contact Clifford. No, it wasn't the administration. You are also talking about the judicial procedure and the tendering procedure. You have given us a list of emails. Very remarkable: you speak of the mail of 29 October and then you move on to 7 November. Of course, the period of 3 and 4 November is essential. Ik zie een mail van 4 november van b.dumonceau@hotmail.com. U zegt daarin: 的Re-Hello Laurent, after discussion with Dominique we will operate as follows: Stibbe will follow up on appeals (...)". Then the most important part of the discussion on public procurement under the legislation in force in this country follows: "Clifford Chance assurera la réflexion sur la strategie future du goverment en matière de mesures envers le secteur aéroportuaire." Reflection ! What is the urgency there? Here is already a preparation of the flight law. So the whole procedure of excluded sectors to which you, as a minister, should never resort, falls into the water and is not correct. And even more so, you say that it is the administration that has made the choice. Again, it is your cabinet that has said the following. "As a result of our discussions, it seems to me that we can consult the following three firms: Stibbe, Clifford Chance and Philippe & Partners." In the e-mail, he even proposes a point quote: 50 points on the recognised experience, 30 points on European law and only 10 points on the money. After all, that is not so important. Do you dare to tell the people in Jurbize that you can just spend EUR 591 000? I can't do that in Heist-op-den-Berg. You say you can look us all in the eye. I would not dare say to the ordinary people on the street that the Minister himself can decide to spend EUR 591,000 on an agency. You forget the essential, the e-mails of 3 and 4 November. Who made that choice? Not the administration. The e-mails you submitted yourself show that it is your cabinet. You say there's no connection between your head of your cabinet and the office in question. I believe you, but tell me why that was chosen. The FPS had no idea this office could do that. Colleagues, you also have those e-mails. It is scandalous that the Minister says again today that it is the administration, while all the documents show that it is the cabinet. I don't think there's any contract. That is why we are tabling a motion for a recommendation in which we ask for that contract. We ask the Minister not to put it on the FOD and acknowledge that her cabinet said ten days after the installation of this government that it should be Clifford Chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer with the necessary legal arguments. I just hope it didn't cost EUR 590 000. I would appreciate it if you would have answered the questions put by Members of this House. After all, I note that some of my questions have not yet been answered. I will put them again in the hope that you will be able to give an answer. First of all, what happened on 4 November, which led to a 180 degree curve in your cabinet's approach to this dossier? Instead of the procedure that would be initiated, which is seen in the e-mails, it was decided to work with that one agency. Secondly, you have not answered the question as to why your administration has not received any answers for months on the financial picture and also on the substantive mandate of the office in question. You did not want to answer that, which is fundamental to me. You say you want to work with the administration. This morning we received a dossier showing that your own cabinet did not want to communicate on this for months. Thirdly, you say there is no contract, only an "accord de volonté selon le droit civil." Does this mean that there is a formal document somewhere in which the extensive mission of the office in question has been laid down? If so, can we have access to it? If not, is it on the highest initiative that the office in question has appropriated itself to this extensive mission? Fourthly, the cost estimate is EUR 590 000 today. Do you intend to pay out that mission in full? Has the work been done, as far as you're concerned? Madam Minister, in addition to the answers I really hope to get, because I think it is also in your interest to settle as many questions as possible today, I must say that I am a little surprised by the tonality of your speech. The tonality of your speech strengthens me in thinking that you have no future in this department because you seem to have a very peculiar meaning for peace, peace and stability. I did not expect you to do this in this way, certainly not with such assertiveness and aggressiveness. Once again, you are shifting responsibility completely away from you. You return the responsibility entirely to your administration, even though there are elements that show in black and white that you have no leg to stand on. That surprised me, and it strengthens me in the belief that this is not going to be okay, and that this Minister is not going to be okay. I would like to look at the majority of my fellow Members, Mrs De Coninck and Mrs Lijnen and Mr Van den Bergh. I'd understand if there was a minister here who said she'd do it in a different way and really want to get to work with her administration. I would understand if you, as Members of the majority, were to say that you want to go further with that. The fact that you seem blindly trust this minister who says that she did not actually make a mistake and puts the ball completely in the administration's camp, I honestly do not understand. I'd like to invite you again to at least... I haven't exhausted my five minutes yet. It's not because I'm saying things about the PS that I can't talk anymore, Mrs. Lalieux. I conclude with the invitation to the parliamentarians of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u56	I didn't tell you, Mr. Calvo, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u57	I wrote down your questions very quickly. The questions you asked Mrs Galant were again about the leaks and the administration. There is not a single majority Member who has dared to ask a specific question about how the Minister has dealt with public procurement legislation. I have heard from Mrs De Coninck as the only reply to my first speech that the debate should be held in Parliament and not in the press. I keep that quote for your party chairman. As a representative of the people, I have heard you say that one should go to court if something is not right. How can you, as a representative of the people, say that it should not be settled and discussed here, but in court? Once again, I do not understand why the majority of my fellow Members are so sloppy in dealing with a dossier that hurts us all and the whole politically awkwardly. A minister who would at least have indicated his desire to deal with it in a very different way could have been the beginning of a solution. Unfortunately, I haven't seen that minister. That was my observation, but above all I hope that some of the questions I have asked will be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u58	Madam President, I regret that Mr Ducarme is not here because my first speech is addressed to him. He'll read it in the transcript. I find it unacceptable to combine and confuse things that are not appropriate. Mrs Galant's predecessors did not commit any irregularities. At no time did they appoint themselves – let me speak, Madame Galant – a law firm. It bothers you, I understand that... [[Brouhahaha]] It's the same every time, Mr. Miller. Whenever it bothers you, you create brouhaha.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, that is enough. Mr Dallemagne has the floor. We have respected Mr Ducrame's words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u60	Give us this document, Mrs. Galant! Because I have this document. Precisely, Mrs. Fonck did better than not to commit irregularities. She had questions and questions about her administration and she asked for a report from the Finance Inspectorate, which was sent to you. You're laughing, but that's what happened. You have been warned from the outset that special vigilance is needed. There was no irregularity on the part of the former firms. That must be clear. On the contrary, they acted diligently vis-à-vis their administration, vis-à-vis the Finance Inspectorate, and they warned you that you should be vigilant in this matter. It's the truth, it's the room you don't want to show, but it exists. I do not accept that we are amalgamating and that we are creating confusion about important things. We are facing unprecedented facts here. That must be made clear. There have been obvious irregularities with regard to service contracts, major markets, for EUR 591,000. We had to learn that amount this morning, because at no time did you quote that figure yourself. The hourly rates, I'm sorry to say, are exorbitant. It is the Inspector of Finance himself who tells us this since in his report he gives us all the prices: Stibbe 205 euros, other firms to 125 euros. This is very interesting, Clifford Chance, when it is put in competition, is 290 euros, that is 100 euros less than when it is not put in competition. It also shows the interest that Clifford Chance would have had in competing. What I want to say, Madam President, is that this afternoon we have heard elements that are totally contrary to what we have heard this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u62	That's an important point. Mr. Miller, I know it bothers you. Thus, it is necessary to be inflated to say that the president of the FPS made the first contact with Clifford. I ask that a confrontation be organized, Madam Minister. Indeed, Mr. Ledoux told us that he did not know this lawyer or his skills and added that you gave him his gsm number. You're telling us the opposite. That's not the only contradiction. You claim to have asked for a warrant, but you do not go to the end of your reasoning, since you have not received this warrant – and you do not tell us. I am sorry to see that there is still a great deal of shadow and enormous contradiction between you and your administration. In conclusion, I am extremely surprised, if not shocked, to see how much the N-VA, the Open VLD and the CD&V - I can understand the attitude of the MR, who defends his minister, even if he organizes the chahut when we speak - cover the indefensible. I do not understand that one can violate the law and flout the procedures by only raising shoulder increases on the part of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u63	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. I come back to the words of Mr Calvo, who claims that none of the majority has asked a real question about the designation of Clifford Chance. Mr Calvo, you have not listened carefully. I explicitly asked the Minister whether this arrangement of three offers and the like also applied to the particular sectors. I am not a lawyer, but I listened carefully to the Minister's reply. It confirmed that the State aid mission should not be subject to a public contract. Madam Secretary, you have clearly passed the test of fire today. Rather, I believe that Mr Ledoux played with fire this morning. None of the other Members will go back to that, but you did mention it in your reply. After all, you declare that he violated his professional secrecy in open court this morning. He has informed us of any rewards that should not be communicated. You're also reporting that he's risking criminal prosecution for that. My fellow Members, the debate on whether or not we have all the documents, obviously has a painful turn of events. Now we even have documents that we were not allowed to have at our disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the current debate is not helping us any further. It's making everyone worse. I agree with Mr Calvo on this point. Madam Minister, Mr Ledoux is also getting worse, as we have just heard from you. If the opposition is still certain that you have made a mistake, it should lodge a complaint with the appropriate authorities. Mr Calvo, you have addressed me personally. Allow me to do the same. You seem to be making a sport of attacking the MR ministers. We have heard you bluff here in the house, in particular about the documents relating to Objective. You were going to make those documents public. However, we have not seen them. You lack that political courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u64	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u65	Mr. Calvo, let Mrs. De Coninck finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us have the debate on the flight law in complete serenity in committee. We've got to get the airplane bill in place. That law is important for the survival of our airport, for the many tens of thousands of jobs and for the viability of the area around our airport. There is indignation among other Members about the high amount, EUR 591 000. That is indeed a very high amount of money. However, my indignation and the indignation of my party is rather directed towards the high amounts of periodic penalty payments that have been made on the routes. Those amounts are much higher. Flying law must just come to put an end to those sums.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u67	Mr Calvo, there is no personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u68	When you quote someone three times, I think...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u69	You keep quoting them. So it's normal to be quoted in your turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u70	Madam President, Mr Calvo, I think you will have the floor later. I would like to add my voice to what Mrs De Coninck said. Mr Calvo leaves the committee room, but he has asked a very specific question. He asked us why we did not ask questions about the office appointed. We have done so specifically, we have asked why Clifford Chance was chosen, how the office was chosen, when the assignment was entrusted and by whom. I have put these questions very pertinently and the Minister has answered them. Madam President, Minister, I can only conclude by saying that it is essential for us to work in the future in a very transparent way, that you learn from what has happened here over the past few months, and that you will also resolve the leaks that have occurred in the administration. Preparatory notes are confidential, which is important in order to work in a serene and safe environment between cabinet and administration. That is the only way to ensure that this air transport law is implemented and that it becomes a very solid law, which is important for our country and, above all, for all people living in and around Brussels and the airport. I hope you'll put a stop to all the leaks that have been there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u71	Madam President, once and for all, assuming that there have been shortcomings in the award of other contracts, this does not exonerate the responsibility for the errors found in this contract! This argument of the illegality of others, assuming that it is established, does not justify its own shortcomings. On this account, there is no more respect for the law per person. It is an endless system where it is enough to find the one who has failed to comply with the law to justify his or her own shortcomings. It doesn't make any sense in an assembly like ours. Madam Minister, you have developed a long legal demonstration, but you have forgotten a lot of essential legal notions, in any case your legal advisors. I don't blame you personally. You do not have the legal opportunity to assess what is happening. Let's start with the law on public procurement. First, you have served us the entire history of the procurement law. Thank you. We'll send this to law students. Maybe it'll teach them something. But basically, the European directive is not applicable to this public procurement. Stop constantly reminding us of the new directives. They are not yet applicable. They're out of the way. The applicable 2013 law is clear. I'm even your reasoning. No invitation to tender, a negotiated procedure without publicity, an obligation to consult at least three law firms. That is the case law. That is the law! Obligation to compare three offers. I challenge you to give us today the comparative table of the three offers of the law firms and the criteria that led to your choice. Among the criteria, there is usually the price. Additional criteria could be taken. I say this in order to avoid the nonsense of saying that it is a matter of professional secrecy and that we cannot communicate the hourly rates of the law firms we consult. It is the ethics of lawyers that forbids us. I will come back to that because there are many mistakes that are said about it. I expect you to communicate to us today, on the one hand, the comparative table justifying the choice of the firm and, on the other hand, because it is not included in any document, the administrative act prior to the very conclusion of the agreement with the firm - any law student knows this: the detachable act prior to the conclusion of the contract in execution of the contract awarded - with its legal motivation justifying the award of the contract to the firm Clifford. Today, we do not have this document and you would probably be unable to produce it! Or you're pretending the administration has it. I ask that Mr Ledoux be brought back to tell us whether the administration has this administrative act or not. If I understand your reasoning, there are as many contracts as there have been separate consultations with Clifford. If you have not done so, if you have made a continuum, it is important to know whether, from the outset, the description of the contract included the purpose of the tasks entrusted to it, that is, the three legal aspects. In this case, you will certainly come across the requirement for competitive tendering if, from the outset, the three missions were clearly detailed. I therefore note that the law on public procurement has been completely ignored, in disregard of the most obvious criteria. Last argument, the subtlety you found not to give all the information. The bar bar forbids you to give us certain documents. I read the stickman's letter. What's he telling us? "As you know, the professional secrecy to which the lawyer is bound prevents him from producing this type of information himself." That's exactly right. Article 458 of the Criminal Code does not apply to third parties, it applies to those who have an obligation to respect professional secrecy. While the lawyer's client is not bound by professional secrecy, it is generally accepted that he cannot untie his lawyer. Yes, it is. What does that mean? You cannot write to your counsel by saying that you authorize it to communicate, but you are entitled to disclose the information you hold and must disclose, pursuant to a law of public policy, the Public Procurement Act. It is so true that you will have to communicate the information to the Court of Auditors and that we have the right to know about it! You cannot untie the lawyer, but under the law of public order, you are obliged to communicate all the information to Parliament, which you did not do this afternoon!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u72	Madam Minister, you are telling us that you have complied with the rules and I would be willing, somewhere, to believe you. But Mr. Ducarme says the opposite. He says we have to get back to the norm. Finally, you are a little served by Mr. Ducarme who says that it is valid "for others too". When you say "others too," I remember you're part of it! You say we can't communicate the price. Mr. Maingain just talked about it. You tell us it's not expensive but we can't communicate the prices. So we have to believe you on word. On the other hand, where you don't answer at all, it's about the quality of the work that Clifford provides. Ledoux tells us – and documents I have confirm this – that the SPF had to rewrite the law entirely. You don't answer that. I conclude that the quality of Clifford's work is below everything. Who chose this firm? You say by using the passive way: "The name of Clifford has been advanced," as if it had fallen from heaven! By whom was he? It would be interesting to know. You're telling us this firm is competent. It is certainly in response to the European Union, since the most expensive lawyer on the team that has been made available to you is a former director general of the team. But I don't know if he's really competent. Maybe, as Coluche said, "when you don't know the law, you have to know the judge." In any case, in the case of other matters, including air transport, the reputation of this firm is in no way positive. With regard to the absence of an invitation to tender, I will not go back to your gross smoke or the history you have drawn up. The law is clear and your argument does not hold. Even if we were to follow this one, we would still have to ask ourselves where is the urgency you are calling for. When we develop strategic thinking about the air sector, can we talk about urgency? When we entrust the drafting of a law that ends in the summer of 2015 but is still not voted, is there an urgent need? You have a strange notion of this one. You claim not to have circumvented the rules, but simply to have shown "administrative recklessness". I do not see where the difference is: either you have complied with the rules or you have broken them. In my opinion, this is not recklessness; you have indisputably violated the law. It is up to you to draw the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u73	Minister, would you like to add anything else? You know the last word is in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u74	Madam President, I will be very brief. Some members have short memories. Since 2011, the CDH has managed this department. The law has been in force since 1 July 2013. I humbly admitted to following the procedures that were under way in my department, but to say that my predecessors respected the law is completely false. The opinion of the Inspector of Finance is very clear in this respect. It states that the Department does not comply with competitive procedures. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u75	So you're in charge of the department?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u76	Minister, allow me to interrupt you for two minutes. Anyway, Mr. Dallemagne, you'll get the last word. I therefore propose that you let the minister speak. Before I give you the floor, minister, I ask you to speak generally rather than to question a particular member.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u77	Madam President, I recall that it is well stated in the report of the Inspectorate of Finance which I received on 9 November 2015 that "the seriousness of the first of these infringements in 2014 must be relativized in so far as the practice of not soliciting more than one offer of services for these legal services contracts could be regarded as regular under the influence of the old rules in force until 30 June 2013 and it seems that it will again be so once the aforementioned directive has been transposed into Belgian law". The Inspector of Finance points out that a law firm, not to mention the firm Stibbe since the report is on the Internet, worked for €432,000 in 2014, and that Vanden Eynde Legal, for its part, had worked for €155,000 without competition. As far as I am concerned, I humbly acknowledged the facts and said that we are going to put order to the procedures that are not being properly applied. I want to read you an e-mail which I sent you, but which you probably forgot to read. I refer here to the email of the President of the Administration of 11 December 2014. Of course, some e-mails are not in the press. Still, on December 11, 2014, the president of the administration wrote to our firm: "I also said and wrote before, I don't have much appreciation for Stibbe's work in these cases, so far. I also think that they are being paid a lot of fees for a job that has so far brought us more problems than anything else. But as long as I do, I'll ask Clifford to check if the arguments put forward by Stibbe stand on the way, which I don't believe. Well, I'm not a lawyer. If they confirm them, okay, I'll recognize my mistake. Otherwise, I think we should stop with Stibbe." Mrs Matz, Mr Dallemagne, I invite you to a little humility. Your bad faith...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u78	Mr Dallemagne, the minister has finished talking. I note that all members of this committee wish to react. Everyone will therefore have the opportunity to speak out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u79	Madam Chair, I would like to make it clear again that at no time has any of the previous ministers allowed themselves to do what Ms. Galant did, that is, to go and get a lawyer himself, a law firm entirely foreign to the area he imposed on her administration, without a call for competition, to make a bill without her administration. At no time has this been the case. On the contrary, when these ministers were in office, when they realized that, in their opinion, there were questions to be asked about how the administration, and not themselves, was working on certain markets, they asked the Finance Inspectorate for an opinion, which they gave you, Mrs Galant! I did not want from the outset to load the boat even stronger than necessary for you because it was sinking but, in fact, you had been warned by your predecessor that you should, in terms of public procurement, be extremely careful and that in this case you must abide by the law on public procurement. You did the opposite. You're off the road. You went into the ravine!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u81	Madam Secretary, you have reacted fiercely, first with regard to the FOD and now with regard to cdH. I'm not getting involved in that. I have asked questions three times in the hope of getting an answer, in all intensity or in some other way. Who named Clifford Chance? We have still not received an answer. You may answer in the tone you choose. I don't care. Why is that office marked? There are three offices named in an email from your employee Dumonceau: Stibbe, Philippe & Partners and Clifford Chance. Where is the comparative table on which Clifford Chance was chosen? It does not matter what key you answer, but that is the essence of the question that I would like to see answered today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u82	My question is quite related to that of Mr Geerts. What happened between November 3 and 4, 2014? Why does Mr Demonceau, a member of your firm, write a complete tender - this appears in the e-mails you sent us - and that the next day he writes to the SPF Mobility, to Mr Ledoux: "We changed our mind. After discussion with Mrs Offergeld", we will go, without going through the call for tenders (...)" The invitation to tender which Mr Demonceau, and therefore the firm, had already drawn up with the agreement of the administration. We pass through and name directly Clifford Chance. Why? What happened between November 3 and 4? You did not answer that question. Yet this is the crucial moment. This is why the firm Clifford is appointed without a call for tenders, while until then you thought in good faith, with your administration, that a proper public procurement procedure should be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u83	Madam Minister, I think and feel that you should not have taken up the floor to add a diaper. If I were you, I wouldn't have done it because in the end, you're destroying everything you've tried to build in your intervention. You did a whole demonstration to conclude "I didn't bypass the rules." And then you take the floor again to say "I have followed the practices in force". Somewhere, you tell us that you have bypassed the rules, exactly the opposite of what you just concluded before. I think it's an extra lie and it's pretty unfortunate to see how many lies you've spoken lately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u84	Madam President, at this time, after almost a full day of hearings in committee, Parliament still does not have the administrative act, i.e. an act which can be appealed to certain administrative courts, in any case under certain conditions of time. Parliament still does not have the administrative act to award a contract to a law firm. The mystery remains complete. When the minister says: "the contract has been concluded tacitly, only by exchange of consent", we must at least have the exchange of consent attested by written evidence. We're not at the cattle market! We would need an official mail from your administration or from yourself, signed by your hand in any case, and an official and communicable mail to the parliament of the law firm to say what the contract is. Today, no one knows the subject of the contract. If you call for the rescue of the rules of civil law, since contract there is subsequently the award of a contract - I would remind you that this is the theory of public procurement - at the very least, the object of the contract must be certain and the respective obligations, including the price obligations towards your consulting office of lawyers, must be determined in a certain way. To date, at this time, Parliament has no information. So we did a hearing today without having the opportunity to exercise control of the legislative power over the government's actions by having all the information at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u85	Madam President, as far as Stibbe is concerned, this morning the President of the SPF told us that decades ago Stibbe was appointed by the SPF and that there were regular renewals of contracts in due form and competition. Again, I wonder about the words that have just been said. In addition, we talked about a report from the Finance Inspectorate commissioned by Minister Fonck, which was handed over to you. This morning, Mr Nollet read your answer to his question about this report from the Finance Inspectorate. You've recognized some irregularities, but you said there's no problem, everything's fine in the best of the worlds. I confirm what I said earlier, it really lacks decency and dignity. Compared to the missing parts in the file, I remind you of the emails we didn't get. You said you wanted to act transparently. We are still not in possession of the reminder emails from your administration in May-July to obtain answers regarding the content and contours of the contract. All the documents were not handed over to Parliament as announced. It's not transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u86	Before I move on to the motions, minister, I will allow myself to speak again and to tell you that I do not have the impression that something has changed in fifteen days. "It's not me, it's the other." It's very tiring, because we still don't know who mandated Clifford. We didn't get a response from the minister. We had three hours of debate, three hours of smoke screen, three hours of clouds, and no lightening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u87	Madam President, get off your perch! If you make such a statement, as a PS MP, have at least the decency to come down from your chair. You do not embody the neutrality of the chairmanship of the committee if you say anything like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u88	Mr Ducrame, I said that I would allow myself and I did not hear any reaction from you. All afternoon, I came down from my perch to question and answer the minister. Maybe I made a 30-second mistake. I'm sorry, I won't, Mr. Ducrame. But I keep my words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-10-54-commissie-ic265x.u89	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux, Ms Vanessa Matz and Mr Vanessa Matz. Kristof Calvo, David Geerts, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain and Marco Van Hees and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Benoit Hellings, David Geerts and Kristof Calvo and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the Minister of Mobility to make the contract(s) with the law firm Clifford Chance available to Parliament." A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Vanessa Matz and Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr David Geerts, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Olivier Maingain and Mr Marco Van Hees, and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, asks the Minister of Mobility to make the contract or contracts with the law firm Clifford Chance available to Parliament ' A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Benoit Hellings and Kristof Calvo read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Benoit Hellings, David Geerts and Kristof Calvo and the response of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the Belgian National Railway Company, asks the government - to make every effort to – finally – propose a plan for the sustainable management of noise pollution generated by the Brussels Airport activity for the benefit of the residents of the three regions, starting with the establishment of the environmental night (from 22:00 to 07:00); - to draw lessons from repeated errors in the award of public contracts; - to recognize the approximations, errors and lies of the Minister for Mobility; - to see the very negative impact of this succession of proven facts on the image of the country and of politics in general; - to note that all this will prevent the Minister from acting effectively and crediblely in the management of this case, as well as that of SNCB; - to assume the consequences and therefore to proceed with its replacement." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Kristof Calvo and reads as follows: "The Chamber, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr David Geerts and Mr Kristof Calvo and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of the Belgian Railways, asks the government - make every effort to finally propose a sustainable management plan for the noise caused by the activity of Brussels Airport for the benefit of the residents of the three regions and first introduce the quiet night (from 22 to 7:00); - learn from repeated errors in the award of public contracts; - acknowledge that the Minister has been guilty of wet fingering, errors and lies; - to note that these successive established facts undermine the image of the country and of politics in general; - declare that the above facts prevent the Minister from managing the present file, as well as that of SNCB, with the necessary efficiency and credibility; - bear the consequences thereof and therefore replace the Minister.' A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Denis Ducarme et Jef Van den Bergh. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Inez De Coninck and Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Mr Denis Ducarme and Jef Van den Bergh. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can conclude this meeting here. I thank the minister for releasing her agenda to come to committee.
