ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u2	As agreed at the Conference of Presidents, we shall exceptionally begin with questions for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will recognize the following quote: As far as the tax shift is concerned, we are planning the broad lines by March. This means that this is more or less in line with budgetary control. Minister, I assume you recognize this quote, because it is yours. Minister, what happened in March? In March we discussed budgetary control, but there was no mention of the tax shift. The Prime Minister said at the time that the tax shift would be discussed immediately after budgetary control and that it would have to be completed before the summer. This weekend we heard from the Prime Minister that the tax shift may not be ready before the summer because there are still a lot of discussions and consultations to be held. It'll be before after the summer. Minister, it is very clear what this government is doing. When it comes to making ordinary families pay, everything has to go very quickly. The index jump had to be chased through Parliament. No further advice could be requested from the NAR. It had to be quick. However, when it comes to sharing things fairly and claiming the great abilities, everything is put on the long run. In November, the Prime Minister said that the Cayman tax would be introduced very quickly, but we have not seen anything yet. At the beginning of this year, you yourself said that the banking tax would be here at the latest in March, but we have not seen any of it yet. The same is happening now with the tax shift. First it was announced that it would be in March, then before the summer recess and now after the summer recess. Minister, I have a very clear question for you. When's the tax shift finally getting here? When will this government finally take decisions that affect not only the families but also the great assets? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a higher net wage for people who work, for those who have a modest income, to make it cheaper to recruit new forces to strengthen businesses, a boost for companies who want to tackle it in a green and sustainable way, a fair contribution from companies that do less well, who pollute and....................................................................................................................................................................... I quote these examples because they are all feasible, because they must be feasible and because they are part of our call for fiscal reform, a plea for a different and better approach. More and more often, Minister Van Overtveldt, I wonder if you will. Do you want this tax reform, do you want the pronounced shift in taxes with lower taxes on labour and a shift towards large capacities, a shift towards environmental pollution? Do you want all that? Do the four government parties still want to implement this clear reduction of charges, which the European Commission has already called for today? This week there were two cases. First of all, we read, at the beginning of this week, that the tax shift would be lifted over the summer. Mrs Temmerman has already referred to it. A few months ago, you replied to my question in the Finance Committee that the tax shift would be discussed in March. In March, the first contours of the tax shift were drawn. Afterwards, the Prime Minister said this would happen before the summer. That's not one, but those are two commitments. That is a first important matter. The second important issue, Mr President, is the following. Mr Verherstraeten is not here at the moment, but today's De Standaard published a remarkable interview in which he spoke freely about his contacts with the diamond sector during the previous legislature, and about the friendly settlement. Mr Verherstraeten made a critical statement about your functioning there. I will quote him very quickly, about the tax shift: you will have to land before the summer recess, but that will take some effort. I note that not every cabinet is as performant as the Peeters' Cabinet or the Genes' Cabinet. The group leader of the majority continues: "I hear the Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt is engaged in bilateral contacts. I would, however, like to give him the benefit of the doubt as long as he presents himself with a competent urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, that is cheekish to ask if Johan Van Overtveldt wants another tax shift. Servais Verherstraeten is also asking that question today. I would like to repeat that question here today, Mr President. Does this majority still want to do so? Does this majority want more fair and green taxes? If so, when will you do so? Please give me a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Finance and the plenary, I have already answered a number of questions from you and other colleagues on the tax shift, including the first EUR 2 billion tax shift, which is now being rolled out. I assume I shouldn't repeat those answers. Of course, I also fully understand the fact that a substantial reduction in the burden on labour, once again, on top of the tax shift that we are already doing, really stimulates curiosity. The discussions on the arrangements for the tax shift are indeed ongoing. As far as concrete timing is concerned, pressure is being speculated. That's obvious. In any case, I believe that substance preys on timing. Quite specifically, is the summer vacation an absolute, strict deadline? No. Is it feasible by summer vacation? Yeah, I think so. Is it desirable to meet that deadline? Yeah, I guess so. However, it will depend on how the government talks are going on about this, and it is clear to me that I cannot and will not take any concrete steps at the moment. Again, however, substance primes on timing. That's the most important thing for me. As far as the substance is concerned, I would like to make two further points. Firstly, the reduction in the tax shift will benefit both employers and employees. That is a first important principle. A second important principle is that we must ensure that the financing of the tax shift is carried out in such a way as to ensure that we take measures which will at least affect the normal functioning of our socio-economic system or drive it in the wheels. Unfortunately, that is not an easy exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which, as usual, is not an answer. First of all, there's no deadline. There was one in the past. This government has begun to say that the caiman tax would be there immediately. There's no tax. In the past there was a timing, now there is no more. Secondly, the tax shift you have already implemented is not a tax shift for the great abilities. It is clear that you protect those great abilities over and over again. We are afraid that the tax shift that you are putting in front of you will again address the families. The EUR 2 billion tax shift is absolutely insufficient for us. Again, it is not there for the great abilities. Minister, your predecessor has asked the Supreme Court of Finance to conduct a study and to see how we can best divide the efforts that need to be made. Let me quote the very clear answer once again: 'The most important room for manoeuvre is the income from capital.' I therefore hope, Minister, that you will take this finding from the Supreme Court into account in all the discussions you are going to have. Cd&V colleagues, I ask you how much longer you will stand for when you set a deadline that the government has repeatedly exceeded. Every time a right-wing measure is taken, you swallow it with the idea that it will improve. Unfortunately, it won't improve, because there's no deadline. The Minister has made that very clear. The question is, how much longer are you going to take this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u7	Minister, I am not a date fetishist and I prefer quality to speed, but it is not the case that the opposition is always speculating about data. You have committed yourself to this House. You are the trade minister, and as far as I am concerned, the words of a trade minister are not free. You mentioned March. The same applies to the Prime Minister. In order for Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Van Rompuy to swallow the index jump, the Prime Minister said that there would be a tax shift before the summer. Today may be before the summer, maybe after the summer. The well-being of CD&V politicians is important to me, but not so important. Our citizens, who are moaning today under the savings of this federal government, deserve better. They must not suffer from this bickering cabinet. Announced commitments must be respected. Mr Van Overtveldt, you have been frightfully quick with this government for a number of other things. I am thinking of part-time work, waiting allowances, pension bonus, index jump, registry rights, etc., all things that make people's lives more difficult. You've already made up your mind about that. I would therefore urge you to put this tax shift, a clear reduction in charges, not towards VAT but towards major capacities and environmental pollution, on the table before the summer so that people can leave on vacation with hope and prospects of getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, my question is about the Grexit and not about the tax shift. I expected the opposition to ask a question on this today, because I read that the Planning Bureau predicts that by 2020 there will be 200 000 additional jobs and that one of the most important instruments is the index jump, Mrs Onkelinx. Mr Calvo, I would also like to discuss your proposal. I reread it today. You want to get EUR 3.5 billion out of assets by making everyone who owns more than EUR 250 000, including their own home, pay a capital return tax. That's a bit different than a cadastral equation! I'd have liked to have discussed that, but okay. Mr President, I come to my question on an issue that is also very important for our economy, namely the Grexit. Today I read that the problem of the euro hangs over the European economy like a sword of Damocles. Minister Van Overtveldt, you attended two meetings of the Eurogroup and of the Ecofin Council. We are faced with important deadlines in relation to Greece. There have been talks about this, and in the press we read about it hot and cold. What is Belgium's attitude? There's a recovery program that needs to be implemented. What has been promised at the moment? I think it is very important that we discuss the problem of the Grexit, because Geert Noels is already talking about a temporary and controlled Grexit. Of course, such a thing can weigh hugely on our economy. In short, what is the state of play in the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u9	Mr Van Rompuy, the Belgian Government's position in this indeed very difficult and long-standing discussion is that we agree with the consensus in the Eurogroup. I am told that the current consensus among the Eurogroup is historically a unique one. The consensus is very simple that Greece should implement the current programme. There can be no negation of the substance, there can be talk of the implementation procedures for privatisation, reform of the pension system, labour market reform. The Eurogroup has made it clear that the logic of monetary union must be respected. This is also good for the Greek economy in the longer term. So there is convergence between these two requirements. In the meantime, Greece is in a precarious situation in terms of liquidity, which cannot be denied. We are now working on the exhaustion of the resources of the local authorities, which you will probably have heard about. Moreover, a role is played here by the European Central Bank, which regularly raises funds through its emergency liquidity assistance. That is crucial as far as I am concerned. As far as the Eurogroup is concerned, that is a decision which the ECB can and must take in full autonomy. She alone has the authority to do so. It considers it important and is fully supported by everyone - to remain within its mandate, in other words, to ensure, for example, that direct monetary financing of the government is not carried out. More than ever, the ball is in the Greek camp. If Greece gives clear and clear signals, which are credible and verifiable, that one can understand the starting point of getting on or entering the current programme, then anything is actually possible. Those signals need to be sent, because today they are not enough. As for the other options, you have just mentioned a few, but there are a lot of others that are going on in the round, and I cannot say anything other than that, as far as I and the Eurogroup are concerned, that is speculative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We naturally support the policy you are pursuing in the Ecofin Council. Everyone is concerned about the euro. Greece must be able to remain in the euro area, but it must also comply with the recovery programme. In the long term, this will be the only way to bring the necessary stability to the euro area. We support your policy in this matter and do not participate in speculation. It is very dangerous for top economists to come and say that temporary retirement is possible, in a controlled manner. In fact, this would mean leaving the euro area permanently and putting the whole project at risk. We support you in your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you announced that your administration will investigate how an update of the cadastral income can be carried out in practice, as well as the method to be used to this end and the cost of such an investigation. Almost at the same time, your colleague, party member and Flemish minister, Mrs Homans, argued in the Trends weekly for an adjustment of the cadastral incomes. Minister, you will not be surprised that these announcements have once again frightened citizens, owners and tenants. It is argued that the ten-year correlation is not carried out; therefore, everyone who owns a dwelling is rightly afraid that the change in cadastral income will make it necessary to pay more again, because the cadastral income increases significantly. For the sake of fairness, we must confess that this is not to be found in the discussions. However, other measures have been taken, such as annual indexation and an increase of 40% for dwellings rented out to private persons or used as a second residence. In taxation, cadastral income is used twice more. It is used once in the personal income tax it is important that we give this to everyone.. the rent to private persons or the use as a second stay. It is valued above all revenue, which is already available, i.e. at a rate of about 50%. The cadastral income is also used to determine the property tax. The Finance Act clearly states that the Regions determine the tax base, which must be the cadastral income. My question is therefore simple. Before a study could be considered, it is logical that you should first have discussions with the relevant regional ministers, in order to ascertain clearly whether they still want to use the tax base. In the other case, the study is already without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u12	Mr Van Biesen, I think everyone is aware that in many cases, not to say most cases, the cadastral income no longer corresponds to the real value of a property. Thus, in most cases, situations are distorted. That discrepancy isn't new. It has grown historically. No adjustments have been made since 1975. It goes without saying that it cannot be eliminated overnight from today to tomorrow. The updating of all KlU's is, as I understand it from the experts of the FOD, a real monk's work. No budget or operational resources are currently available for this purpose. It is not in the coalition agreement either. Mr Van Biesen, I can also reassure you, if necessary. I am not, to put it mildly, in favour of increases in charges either. That is all the more reason not to rush into the dossier. I have indeed instructed my administration to prepare a preliminary study on the operational impact. In other words, what is needed in the administration of people and resources to complete such a very detailed, I would almost like to use the word gigantic, updating operation? I think it is right and absolutely necessary to have further data. I would also like to stress that an update of the KIJS generates effects for other levels of government and even relatively large and important effects. After all, the KI serves as the basis for the property tax. Consequently, a pre-selection is not possible without prior and extensive consultation of all interested parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. A well-hearing one has understood it clearly. I believe that the owners and tenants can rest assured that there will be no fundamental changes in the policy of cadastral income. We have to wait and see now. We will see what cost picture comes out of the study. You will have talks with the regions responsible for determining whether the cadastral income is still the logical tax base for determining the property tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u14	Minister, we will soon be voting in plenary on a transitional arrangement for certain members of the operational framework of the integrated police. The scheme means that anyone who is subject to the conditions for early retirement before 10 July 2015 will be able to retain those conditions. We will soon vote on the establishment of the National Pension Committee, which will be the bearer of further pension reforms. A first item on the agenda of the Pension Committee will be the scheme for the heavy-duty professions and the scheme for the part-time pension. In the end, the two draft laws before us fit in with the continuation of a pension reform in which we want to work longer, but at the same time we also want to take a number of measures, including for people with a heavy occupation. The scheme for those people would be worked out within the National Pension Committee. Today, Minister, I read in the press that you are negotiating a separate arrangement for police officers who could retire early, at 58 years. No one will deny that, taking into account the interventions and the associated risks and shift work, police officers can be covered by the heavy professions. However, you said not so long ago that a definitive regulation would actually be a pre-emption to the discussion on the heavy professions. I quote: 'We have always said, from day one, that this is part of the government's global pension reform. This debate is now starting and the National Pensions Commission will be set up and then the debate on the heavy professions will start. How does the adapted regulation that you are discussing today, and which may well be finalized, fit into the general discussion on the heavy-duty professions? To what extent is it a preliminaries to the discussion, something you have actually said that it could not be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u15	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, through a judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, which states that several existing pension schemes are illegal in the police, we have been obliged to develop a new, legally correct solution. Since you joined as Minister of the Interior, you have worked on this with the unions. We are about to adopt this transitional measure, which is right to put an end to the uncertainty that exists on the ground among some 2 500 police officers. We also read that there would be a more comprehensive solution on the table which would involve more final decisions on a general retirement age for the police. You have already answered questions from Mrs Becq and myself in the Committee on Home Affairs. You have also responded to the concerns of our group in this matter. This concern is twofold, on the one hand, the specific aspect of the police profession must of course be taken into account, but on the other hand, it is essential for our group that we continue to carry out structural reforms in the overall pension dossier in order to keep the system running. You were right to reply and refer to the National Pensions Committee, which, among other things, is given the explicit mandate to lay down general guidelines and clear criteria for ensuring equal treatment for all occupational categories, including as regards the definition of heavy-duty professions. It is apparently difficult to define the term "heavy occupation" when research teaches us that 7 out of 10 Flemish think they have a heavy occupation. We therefore have a difficult discussion ahead of us. Moreover, the previous pension minister received 33 applications from different occupational categories to be recognised as a heavy occupation. This too is significant. Tonight you're sitting with the police unions, and although you didn't want to lose anything, we've been able to read a few things. From 58 years one will be able to go on non-activity and from 2018 it will be 59 years old. There may also be provisional and temporary recognition as a heavy occupation. The nuclear cabinet approved this last Friday, but a working group also examined the budgetary implications. The basic principle of financing would be to channel the proceeds to the police areas by keeping employees working longer. I have questions for you, Minister. Can you confirm the content of the proposal that we can read in the press? Has the cost of this measure already been calculated? Can you clarify that? Is there an agreement within the government on its financing? Can you confirm that further agreements could be reached on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, Mrs Becq, thank you very much for your questions. It is good to clarify on a number of points and to give the true meaning of the hypotheses that are being developed in the press. The end-of-life regime for the police, in particular the non-activity system, is a scheme which will apply until all early retirement schemes in the federal public sector, including the KB for the end-of-life regime of the police, will be terminated in implementation of the government agreement. I quote the government agreement: "The age and career conditions for early retirement schemes in the federal public sector, pre-retirement leave, disponibility and others will be aligned on the conditions for individual unemployment with single payment. This will be done through an adaptation of the Staff Regulations. You will find the quote on page 113 of the coalition agreement. It has literally been taken over in the text of the police end-of-life regulations. The draft KB on the end-of-life regime provides that the staff member of the operational framework who has reached the age of 58 years is entitled to an adapted relationship. That's a permanent, definitive right. A person who becomes 58, within the operational framework of the police, is entitled to an adapted relationship. In addition, the Royal Decree also provides for a system of non-activity, whereby the police officer who enjoyed a preferential early retirement age of 54, 56 or 58 years before the draft law on which you are about to vote is entitled to non-activity from 58 years of age, at the earliest from the age of four years below his early retirement age. That non-activity system provides for a waiting fee that is degressive, according to the number of years of service activity. This is a system of non-activity, which means that no additional pension rights are built up for the calculation. The non-activity scheme is a scheme that applies until, in implementation of the government agreement, all early retirement schemes in the federal public sector, including this Royal Decree, are terminated. The adjustments to KB's draft for the police and all other early retirement schemes and preferential retirement pension schemes will be made after discussions on the heavy-duty professions have been held in the National Pension Committee. Therefore, there is no preliminaries in the present Royal Decree to a definitive scheme in the context of the heavy-duty professions. Let me be clear: the RB on the end-of-life regime of the police consists of a part non-activity and a part adapted work. Of course, the system of non-activity is temporary, but the right to an adapted relationship is, of course, a permanent right. The cost of all this is calculated in collaboration with the PDOS and will be discussed in the technical working groups between the Cabinets in the next few days together with the draft royal decree. The possible number of beneficiaries of the non-activity scheme can be determined fairly precisely in advance and therefore the budgetary impact can also be calculated fairly well. After the draft royal decree, there will of course be a royal decision on the financing. As far as financing is concerned, I have always said that we will use what we save on pensions to finance that system. Unfortunately, I cannot go into the other questions because the discussions are still ongoing. Tonight at 5:00 p.m., we will speak to the unions again. The questions asked are still the subject of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, from which I fully understand that this is a new temporary arrangement, a second temporary arrangement, which is presented in addition to the temporary arrangement that we are approving today, pending the discussions in the National Pension Committee. In your reply, Minister, you say that there is a right to an adapted relationship. An adapted employment is not an obligation, but the possibility must be provided by the employer. In my view, these are important principles which may also be taken into account in the National Pension Committee. At the same time, given that you are now once again providing for a transitional regime, I would like to draw attention to the possible uncertainty that it creates about the time when a definitive arrangement will come and what it will entail. I think it is important to clarify this final arrangement as soon as possible, otherwise it will remain a preliminaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Together with you, we look forward to the work of the National Pension Committee. I am also pleased that you confirm once again that the system of non-activity will still be financed by the federal government. If the police were to pay for this themselves, it would really be a financial disaster, which we both do not want. One of the main challenges to continue to pay for the additional costs of ageing is to ensure that people work longer. According to our group, adapted work is also the ideal solution in this case. I would like to stress once again that we are talking about two forms of solidarity: solidarity over different generations, of course, but also solidarity over different professions, and thus equal treatment and equal criteria. I am glad that you say that there are no preliminaries on final arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u19	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the temple of Belgian democracy. Of course, we did not expect the attempted coup d'état that has just taken place, just a few minutes ago, in Burundi, a country that has long been a friend of Belgium. My first intention was to question you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, on the problem of suspending aid for the organisation of elections. I wanted to tell you that, in my view, you were right to take this decision in view of the serious shortcomings in terms of democracy faced by the citizens of Burundi. However, we have just learned that the army, or at least part of it, has just organized a coup d'état, taking advantage of the departure of the President-in-Office in Tanzania to attend a meeting of the Community of East African Countries to address the problem of elections, which is causing major revolts among the Burundian population. It should be noted that in Burundi, no fewer than 22 people died as a result of the unrest caused by the President's desire to present himself for the third time, despite the Arusha agreements. We must be unanimous in ensuring that Burundi finds its way back to democracy as soon as possible. Deputy Prime Minister, the issue of the safety of our fellow citizens in Burundi also arises, but the security of Burundians is just as important. This is also the case, and above all the future of democracy in this country. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, today you are forced to leave your dress as Minister for Development Cooperation to endorse that of Minister for Foreign Affairs. But this is an important issue that concerns us all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our diplomacy claims to be an expert on Central Africa. Today we note that Burundi is on fire. Over the last few days there have been a large number of victims, the press has been muzzled, the right to association has been abolished, and so on. As Mr Flahaux has just said, there is probably also a coup d'état. Our democracy has failed. When I look back at the last few months I see a gap. On the one hand, I note that this Chamber, on a proposal from my fellow Members, has adopted a resolution stating clearly and clearly that Belgium does not want a third mandate for the President. I also note that the Minister for Development Cooperation gave clear and clear signals during his recent journey and in his views afterwards. He warned that if the trial isn't inclusive and if the police cross the line, we'd withdraw our money. On the other hand, I see the Foreign Minister and I challenge you to check everything he has said. Ah, those little phrases of Didier Reynders. The same sentence always came back, in particular that Belgium expects the Arusha Agreement to be respected and the Constitution to be respected. However, you should know that the Nkurunziza regime has the interpretation that the Constitution is the translation of the Arusha Agreement and that according to this interpretation the President is entitled to a third mandate. It is clear that our Minister for Foreign Affairs has always used ambiguity. When it became known on 25 April that Nkurunziza wanted to take up his third mandate, the State Department of the United States and the Foreign Office of the United Kingdom clearly stated that he had to waive a third mandate. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs, however, once again made the same point. I come to my question, Minister for Development Cooperation. It is always said that the government is one and indivisible. Well, Mr. Secretary of State for Development, knock on the table. Government, make our signal clear in Bujumbura. We do not want to know about a third mandate. We do not want a military regime either. That is what the sp.a. group expects of this government. Hopefully for the first time she sends a clear signal to Bujumbura, not the ambiguous phrases of Didier Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Burundi is extremely serious and the risk of contagion in the region is not negligible. They weren't already yesterday; it's even worse today. In this context, the freezing of Belgian aid for the organisation of elections was justified, in my view, and I welcome the Belgian decision to interrupt our police cooperation. However, this necessarily had to be done in parallel with strong diplomatic action, such as my colleague, Mr. Van der Maelen, just said. Today, with this coup d'état that has potentially just intervened, this is even more so. Our objective must remain: to help organize democratic, free and transparent elections in that country that respect the Burundian Constitution and the Arusha agreements. We cannot abandon the Burundian population today, even less than yesterday. This does require a clear position on the part of our Government vis-à-vis the President, perhaps dismissed ex officio, but it also requires us to take a clear position on General Niyombaré's statements that he would like to hold elections in Burundi as soon as possible. Mr Minister, what will be Belgium's position and that of the Minister for Development Cooperation with regard to aid for the organisation of these elections, if we actually enter into such a process? Finally, with regard to the violence that has occurred in recent times, are individual sanctions provided for - freezing assets or banning visas - for all those responsible for the violence and deaths in Burundi?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the situation in Burundi over the last few weeks has gone from evil to worse, with dozens dead and hundreds wounded. As has already been said, President Nkurunziza's announcement of his intention to take up a third mandate, contrary to the Constitution, was in breach of the Arusha peace agreement. This afternoon we received the news that the president would have been dropped off by General Niyombare, the former head of intelligence. However, the situation is still unclear. We know that Belgium is the most important donor country. We know that you have suspended the funding of the elections, which has been paid out EUR 2 million, not yet in the second half. We know that the United States, Europe and Switzerland are calling for the elections to be postponed. You have already suspended cooperation for the training of agents with the Netherlands. So you are clearly concerned about the situation. Minister, I would like to ask you what steps you can take, but in fact I should like to ask you whether it is not time, after the suspension of the material support of Burundi, to proceed urgently to a moral condemnation of Nkurunziza. We must tell him that this third mandate is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as you know, the tragic situation in Burundi is changing from minute to minute. I wanted to start my speech with a thought, as my colleague said, for all those who have died, for all those who have been injured, for all those who are currently suffering in Burundi, for all those who are leaving Burundi as a result of the gangrene violence in the country. The postponement of the elections was necessary. They could not be held under current conditions. While the freezing of Belgian aid for the organisation of these elections is unfortunately justified, it does not constitute a fundamental solution to the political crisis, repression and human rights violations in this country, which is a partner of our development cooperation. When I read your statement, minister, I was disappointed to see nothing but this freeze. At no time did you mention a clear position on the current President's third term and on compliance with the Arusha agreements. At no time have you drawn attention to the freedom of the press and the need to restore it. At no time did you mention the need to restore individual freedoms. I hope that, despite everything that is happening now, elections can be held quickly. Our country has a moral duty to support them, to support this country before, during and after this process. We cannot close our eyes and simply suspend the payment of two million euros for the financing of the elections. The Burundians deserve Belgium's continued development and population assistance and also its diplomatic pressure for the end of the abuses in that country. Minister, what are the latest information in your possession? What about the safety of our fellow citizens on the spot? Can you, Minister, commit yourself to re-establishing aid if a favourable climate with a democracy, with more freedom for the press, for the opposition, creates more individual freedoms in Burundi? Can you commit yourself not to reducing the direct aid given to the Burundian population? Many internally displaced persons are in countries neighbouring Burundi: Rwanda, DRC. Is it possible that humanitarian or financial aid will also be granted to these countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there is every reason to worry about the situation in Bujumbara. Some talk about a coup, while the Burundian president on his way to Tanzania talks about a joke and a farce, believing that this putsch has already failed. In any case, we know that the situation is extremely volatile, that part of the Loyalist army holds the national radio and television and that it seems ready to shoot at the crowd that agglutinated in front of the headquarters of that organization. Some believe that this could lead to a bloodbath in Bujumbura in the coming hours. These are therefore particularly crucial for the future of this country. Minister, what information do you have? Have you come into contact with the putschists as well as the president who may have been dismissed? What we are witnessing today is the result of Pierre Nkurunziza's violation of the Arusha agreements, but also of the failure of international diplomacy and, unfortunately, of Belgian diplomacy, since it has recently visited the country. I also regret that such events must be waited for further initiatives to be taken. In short, what is the situation on the spot? What are the risks to the Burundian and Belgian population? Have you heard from our nationals? Are they safe? Has the ambassador been able to identify the entire Belgian community there? What initiatives do you intend to take to avoid bloodshed and return to a normal and acceptable political process? We also know that some of the police have joined the armed forces supporting the putschist generals. Do you see any consequence of the suspension of assistance to the national police? These are our concerns today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for your attention. Indeed, the number of decibels produced by the members of this Chamber who do not have the floor in comparison to the number of speakers poses a "small" problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for calling Members to silence. Minister, we have been concerned about the situation in Burundi for some time. In April, we adopted a resolution calling on the government to engage in a strong political dialogue with the Burundian government, precisely on those elections, to ensure that the route, the code, the constitution, the Arusha agreements and the electoral law are respected. We want to emphasise the inclusiveness of the electoral process and the independence of the electoral bodies and the security services. That was all in our resolution. However, the situation has not evolved positively. At the end of April, the current President of Burundi, Nkurunziza, recorded that he was re-enlisting for the presidency. This is a third mandate, contrary to the spirit of the Arusha agreements, which also form the basis for the Burundian Constitution. There are more and more reports of arrests of human rights activists and of increasing and continuing violence on the streets. In addition, the press reports that the police are acting harshly at demonstrations. On 5 May, we were also informed that the Constitutional Court of Burundi decided that this third mandate would not be unconstitutional. According to reports, the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court refused to sign this judgment and fled to Rwanda. He said there was a lot of pressure from the government. In other words, the rule of law is under serious pressure. Minister, you will agree with me that these are very disturbing messages. Today we are also receiving reports that it appears that a coup was committed against Nkurunziza, but the coverage is still unclear. You have already taken a number of steps concerning the suspension of electoral funding, but what is the next step? I have four questions on this matter. How will Belgium respond to the escalation of infringements against the basic elements of the rule of law and democracy? What position will Belgium take in the discussions at European level? What is Belgium's position on the proposal, which is being formulated more and more frequently, to postpone the elections? Many Burundians have crossed the border. Can this flow of refugees further destabilise the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Burundi has been, and has been, very worrying in recent weeks. Indeed, the latest information is that General Godefroid Niyombare seized power while President Nkurunziza was in Dar es Salaam for a meeting of the East African Community. Mr Niyombare was head of the Service National de Renseignementen, before being pushed aside in February this year by President Nkurunziza. As the situation changes minute after minute, I shall speak in the conditional. It is not the time when Burundi is on fire to play Belgian political games here. Our country has been particularly clear in recent months. In interactions with Burundi's powers, we have never failed to stress the importance of the Arusha agreements. Each time, we have reiterated their importance for peace for the present, and stressed that they will also be decisive for the near future of Burundi. After close consultation between Deputy Prime Minister Reynders and myself, our country was the first country to join the debate. Belgium was the first country to decide on Monday that what was going on there could in no way justify support for the organisation of elections. As you know, there was a project that we carried out together with the European Union, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway, in particular the funding of EUR 29 million from the preparation of the elections. Our country intervened for 4 million euros. It was very clear to us that from the moment there was no prospect of fair and transparent elections, we could not finance their preparation further. We have seen that from Monday until today, other countries have followed us. In my view, it is entirely logical that Belgium should be the first country to intervene. We are Burundi's largest donor at the bilateral level. If you look at the budget we give Burundi per capita, you will notice that it is at the forefront of Belgian cooperation. We also supported a police training project. With regard to police action, there have been many more questions over the past few weeks than answers. We have also seen images over the last few hours showing that the police do not play the calming role at all, but often do the opposite. When the police start attacking the people, it is impossible for our country to continue supporting such projects. I just want to emphasise that our country has played an absolutely prominent role in recent months. At some point we noticed that Mr Nkurunziza's candidacy became official. That candidacy didn't get official until this weekend. Of course, we have also taken note of the fact that the Constitutional Court was under severe pressure, as well as of the escalation of violence. We have also condemned this, as we have always done, by emphasising the Arusha agreements. Those who now claim that Belgium has not made use of our knowledge and influence have not properly followed the role we have played in recent weeks. It is impossible to draw a final conclusion about what will happen in the next few hours, but our line has been very clear over the last few days. Our country will use all the levers, both diplomatic and development cooperation, to achieve two priorities. The first priority is to stop the escalation of violence. We hope that in the next few hours the escalation that has been taking place over the past few weeks will stop. The second priority has to do with the fact that the Burundians themselves have to make a choice for the future of their country. In order to make that choice, respect for the Arusha agreements is crucial for us. However, they must be able to make that choice at a time when there is no violence and when the population is not oppressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister who has been able to use the words that were needed at this stage. Today, the situation is still too fragile to make definitive statements, but it will be necessary to pay particular attention in the hours and days that follow. In any case, all of us, as members of this temple of democracy, must be united and united with democracy so fragile not only in Burundi but in all the countries of the Great Lakes. There is much talk about the problem of illegal immigration and refugees. Today, twenty thousand Burundians are already refugees abroad, not to mention Burundians refugees within their own country. We don't know much about the military coup. But it is important to remember that, as was the case in some Latin American countries, he can also be a salvator and lead to the restoration of democracy. In any case, I wish for it. I would like to add that we should have dealt with this issue in the Committee on External Relations, but other debates have kept us in mind. Our colleague, Françoise Schepmans, had tabled a proposal and Kattrin Jadin had to go to the country to hold the elections. Mr President, it will then be important for us to be even more supportive, concretely, financially, materially and humanly of our Burundian friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u29	Minister, the sp.a Group agrees with all the fellow Members who have called for solidarity with the Burundian people. The greatest service we can do to Burundi is a clear and clear position for our country. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. Since 2013, we have seen Burundi slide into a virtually enlightened dictatorship, with restrictions on the right of association and the press. In the Chamber, and not only by the sp.a., the Foreign Minister was urged to be clear about Bujumbura. Today we have to observe that soft healers make stinking wounds. We don't know what it's gonna be. Either Burundi becomes a military dictatorship, or a political dictatorship. Look at the clear and clear statements made by Washington and London on 26 April, the day after the CNDD-FDD congress in Bujumbura announced that Nkurunziza would go for a third mandate. It was mentioned that the Minister set fire to his country and asked him not to take up the third mandate. From our Foreign Minister came the double interpretable phrase that Belgium expects respect for the Arusha Agreement and the Constitution. That was a false signal. That's the soft healer, who is now responsible for the stinking wound.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, unfortunately, we have not received an answer today. We are facing a catastrophic situation and we do not know how our Government will react in the coming hours to ensure that this escalation in Burundi is halted. We do not know your position on assisting the electoral process. I repeat, for us, the priority is that we can organize democratic, free and transparent elections in Burundi as soon as possible, which respect the Arusha agreements. Our support is essential for the establishment of these elections in Burundi. I hope we can do this quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The government has indeed taken action and used levers to show that it rejects the situation in Burundi, that is clear and there must be no misunderstanding about that. In that region, Rwanda and Congo are also struggling with a similar question as to whether or not a third term of office will be allowed, which could give rise to a conflict. The line you have followed to this day is good, but it can only result in the government, after everything it has said, judging a third term of office morally and underlining that this is absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u32	Minister, I'm not going to talk about the past anymore. What matters now is the future. This is Burundi's future. This is the future of Burundians. As you said, Belgium is a privileged partner of Burundi and today you have a role to play as well as Minister Reynders. This role is not negligible and I hope that you will play this role. I hope that you will ensure that a democracy can be restored in Burundi and that the climate allows for democratic and transparent elections quickly. I also hope, Minister, that since you have not committed yourself to it, you will maintain direct assistance to the public. Indeed, alongside the sanctions that can be imposed on the managers of a state, we must not forget that there is, in the background, a population that deserves to be supported. Finally, Minister, I would like to reiterate my request, which you have not provided, either, for the possible assistance to be given to the countries hosting Burundians who are currently leaving the country. I want to believe, Minister, in the democracy of this beautiful country. I therefore appeal to everyone to be responsible for ensuring that this beautiful country and the entire Great Lakes region regain their stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for answering our questions. I think we will take stock of Belgium's diplomatic action. Today is a time for concern about the development of the situation on the ground. I really hope that we can follow this closely here in Belgium and take the necessary initiatives at the international level, and why not convene the Security Council. It met a few days ago on the question of Burundi. Perhaps it would be important for consultations to take place at this level because we are not immune to a bloodbath. We are not immune from extremely serious violence. As we speak, a part of the army, it seems, has remained loyal to Pierre Nkurunziza, and that is our concern. On the other hand, I did not hear you about the Belgian community, about our compatriots. I imagine it is because the information is not alarming from this point of view. I believe, however, that this will also have to be followed closely. Dozens of our compatriots are in Burundi in Cooperation or other types of activities. Today, Belgium's primary concern must be to ensure that there is no violence and that a normal political situation is restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u34	Minister, I welcome your statement that Belgium plays and will play an important role in this and that we have a great responsibility here. I would also like to call on you to take seriously the strong signal from Parliament, which we have given with our resolution, and now with our parliamentary questions, and to repeat it during the consultations with the European Foreign Ministers. I have also heard you say, as one of your priorities in the approach, that the Burundians should be able to make their own choice about their future and that they should be able to make that choice even if there is no violence. In this context, I call on you to continue to say that there is no democratic electoral process in this way and that the elections are better postponed. I also wish you every success in your diplomatic and political contributions to defuse the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it happens with the regularity of a clock that foreign heads of state visit Belgium. They are also very welcome here. The Turkish President, however, gives this concept a very separate meaning. On Sunday he addressed tens of thousands of supporters at what turned out to be a political-religious electoral meeting. The fact that, according to the Turkish opposition, he is violating the Turkish Constitution is one thing, but he is going a great step further and is harmed by interference in internal affairs, as he is explicitly addressing Belgian citizens, with a strong political message. President Erdogan expressed himself as follows: Turkey will always be your home country. The Turkish state will always support you in that. You must preserve your language, your faith, your values, your culture. Those concepts are clearly regarded by him as an eternal and unwavering fact, without any sense of dynamics of a society, hence his appeal: "You must always stay together, form a strong unity." Calling when there is Islam, we are there, if there is no Islam, we are not there, or the sound that calls to prayer must never stop, make religion a political project, which goes against fundamental values of our society. How can a sentence such as 'cut us off from our faith' be interpreted differently than a direct criticism of the policy that is being pursued here? Minister, do you not think it would be appropriate to tell the Turkish authorities through the ambassador that we do not appreciate this action and that we insist that the Turkish President should not interfere in our internal affairs? Insofar as fundamental rights, such as human rights, are not compromised, such an attitude is absolutely unacceptable. President Erdogan's actions put unnecessary pressure on relations with the Turkish Republic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u36	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I will read you the Foreign Minister's reply. I can indeed confirm that President Erdogan paid a visit to Belgium on Sunday 10 May. This visit only included a meeting with the Turkish community in Belgium. It became a public meeting in Hasselt, in the Ethias Arena, with around 15 000 participants. I was informed about this visit on 4 May by the Turkish embassy in Brussels. President Erdogan came from Germany for a similar visit. It is not the first time that President Erdogan has maintained such contact with the Turkish community in Belgium. As far as I am aware, the President's speech dealt mainly with internal political issues, reflecting the current political and economic situation in Turkey. He called for a positive integration of this community into their present country, suggesting that the country languages should be taught. He also had the same message for the Turkish community in Germany. As a reminder, the Turkish community in Belgium is estimated at about 220 000 people, of whom more than 85% are Belgian nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u37	Minister, there were people present who informed me about the events in Hasselt. President Erdogan's performance is a serious blow to our project of inclusive coexistence. A sentence like: one nation, one flag, one state, reminds us of periods in the past that may not really indicate where we want to go. It is appalling that he continues to count people of Turkish origin into the political Turkish area. In essence, Erdogan's message takes the old idea of the host worker out of the mothballs again, which we very much regret. The fact that a foreign head of state acts here as a political activist who comes to oppose the idea of integration deserves our open condemnation. I will certainly come back to this in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u38	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u39	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u40	Mr Penris, Mr Dewinter, you did not ask to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u41	Mr President, Minister, yesterday I was demonstrating with young people who are worried. Worried rightly because the economic situation is particularly difficult and instead of helping them, your government seems to want to punish them. You punish them when you decide to deprive young people under the age of 21 who have not completed high school. You punish them when you decide to deprive young people who complete their studies after 25 years because their career has not been exemplary. Of course, for good bourgeois families who have money, there are no problems: we will find a way to help the offspring. But for others, for those who have to work, for those whose stock exchange is not without funds, we are talking about the crucial consequences. Your punishments could upset their entire life course. Those under 21 who will lose their income, those older, who will hesitate to complete the last cycle of their studies in order to meet the criteria and avoid the consequences, will be subjected to this anti-youth measure. And that is unfortunately not all. On the pretext of helping young people after excluding them, your government is taking advantage of their disarray and misery to lower their minimum wage. We ask you, Minister, not to press the "walk" button of this machine to be excluded. Minister, I would like to hear from you on the following issues. From the moment you have had to make this estimate to calculate the budgetary return of your measure, we would like to know how many young people will be excluded from the benefit of the integration allowances by the effect of these measures for the year 2015 alone, i.e. the condition of graduation for young people under 21 years of age and the lowering of the age in order to be able to benefit from integration allowances. In this difficult economic context, should not your government, rather than attacking young people, support our bill to remove the limitation of the time-based allowance for beneficiaries who attest to an active job search? Would these strict restrictions on the granting of integration allowances finally be coupled with positive measures favouring the employment of young people in order to avoid the trap of precariousness? And finally, will your government reform the minimum wage for young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u42	Mrs Ben Hamou, I am therefore responding to the questions you have put to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. There are currently ongoing discussions with the offices of the regional ministers in order to establish a list of diplomas and certificates equivalent to a secondary school diploma. These interviews are in the final phase. On the basis of the information obtained, a draft royal and ministerial decree will be submitted for opinion to the Management Committee of the ONEM, the Council of State and the Inspectorate of Finance. Following the approval of the Minister of Budget, the project may be submitted for signature by the Head of State. The regulation does not mean that the right to integration allowances is completely denied to young people who do not fulfil the conditions. In this case, however, admission to the right is deferred until the age of 21 is reached. The number of young people who do not meet the conditions on the basis of the current Royal Decree was estimated at 2,597. The ONEM does not have an estimate of the number of young people who will still be admitted at a lower age as the final list of equivalent certificates is not yet available and these young people are not yet known to ONEM. With regard to the number of young people who do not receive integration benefits because of the reduction in the age from 30 to 25 years, I can only tell you that the estimate concerns 5,244 young people. This number is based on entries during the 2013 base year. It is still too early to provide reliable figures for 2015. I can also let you know that in the first quarter, the integration allowances ended for 2016 for 2,106 young people under 25 years of age. This represents 10.2% of the total number of periods of entitlement to integration allowances during this quarter. When we look at the exits from the unemployment benefit scheme for young people under 25 years of age, we find that 3,706 young people (17.8%) have entered the labour market. 10.4% became independent. For 28 young people (1.3 per cent), sickness benefits were discontinued. For 1,692 young people, we do not have any information. Yesterday, following his visit to Japan, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Employment was unable to receive the youth sections of the trade unions. However, he proposed to meet with them later. The organizations had already been informed of this in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u43	Minister, thank you for providing me with an answer on a matter that is not within your jurisdiction. I will wait until I can talk to the Minister of Employment on this subject. However, in the meantime, your information is not very satisfying, nor even sufficient in my view. Unfortunately, it is important to remember that you do not offer any prospects for the future for young people, except for those of a journey sore with obstacles. In a job market that is completely blocked and made even less accessible by your career extension measures, qualification seems to be the only weapon for young people. And now you are forcing them to make a choice between education and integration allowances! I see no political will to support our country's youth. As an elected young man, I deeply believe that another choice of society is possible and my ideals are now fraying against your policy of intolerance, which, in the name of profitability, leads you to the destruction of all our achievements. For the young people who have mobilized, I will continue to stand up against your anti-youth choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who killed Julien Lahaut? "Who killed Julien Lahaut?" That's the title of a book that was presented in the Senate yesterday. It is a very important book and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the CEGESOMA team for the historic work he has done. I would like to take this opportunity to address the House today to thank CETESOMA for the work done, as well as Mrs Véronique De Keyser for the work done to elucidate an important moment. A Belgian MP was murdered for political reasons, for his ideas! A Belgian deputy was murdered not because he had chanted "Vive la république!", but for new theses that were put forward yesterday in this book. I want to quote them: 1. The book shows that there have been collusions at the level of the state apparatus and the government. 2. The book shows that there was collusion with the judiciary. 3. The book shows that there was collusion with private interests and large companies that had gabled on the street, such as the Société générale, the Brufina. This is therefore not at all a political thesis, according to which royalist networks were involved, but it is really economic and political networks that have collaborated in the assassination of a politician in Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, that is very important. That must be taken seriously. There are clear elements on the table to show that parts of the government, of the judiciary and of the private sector, including the Société Générale, have contributed to the death of a representative of the people. Mr Minister, can you assure us that these types of mechanisms that led to the assassination of a Member of Parliament are no longer present at the head of the State Security Service today? Can we set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry? Because we're a step further. This is a collusion with the political world, with the economic world on the death of a representative of the people, who had the sun in his pocket, die of zon in zijn zak had. The president of the Communist Party, Julien Lahaut, was murdered. For democracy in Belgium, we must have access to all the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, you will understand that I have not yet had time to read the work of CEGESOMA, which was presented in the Senate this Tuesday. We will have an opportunity to examine whether lessons can be learned for the future. As Minister of Justice, I must first of all point out that the murder of Mr Julien Lahaut committed in August 1950 is prescribed, as the Chamber of the Council of the Court of First Instance of Liège found in 1972 and as was recalled in the motion for a resolution on the conduct of a scientific study on the assassination of Julien Lahaut, presented on 16 December 2008 by Mr Francis Delperée, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Justice. The prescription would even be acquired if the limitation period for this type of fact had already been extended to twenty years, as I will shortly propose. I would also point out that my predecessor stated before the Committee on Justice on 4 July 2012, in response to a question from Mrs Murielle Gerkens, that the archives of the case would be made available to CETESOMA in the context of the investigation entrusted to him. On 26 February 2013, Mr Courard, at that time Secretary of State for Science Policy, confirmed in the Committee for the Science Policy of the Chamber that a budget would be made available to finance the second phase of the research. As far as State security is concerned, I shall confine myself to saying that since 1993 its supervision has been ensured by a permanent and independent body, the Committee R, under the law of 18 July 1991. The supervision focuses, inter alia, on the legality of the activities of the Security of the State and of the General Intelligence and Security Service in the armed forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u46	Minister, an academic study has been published. We are no longer just in the sequence of historical review of events. The major fact that is set out in this book, and I can only encourage you to read it, is that there is evidence of tangible links between the political and economic worlds and the assassination of a Member in Belgium. The question is therefore no longer only legal; it is also political! We cannot compare this event with others - as I hear some of them working on the MR benches - to minimize the issue of murder. Because here we are talking about the assassination of a Member of Parliament. And that doesn't happen every day. It's a shame to talk like that on the benches of the MR! I would like to make it clear that this is one of the only political assassinations in Belgium. We must therefore shoulder our political responsibilities, Minister. I therefore hope that the studies will be further developed to see whether, on the one hand, the mechanisms for the separation of powers and, on the other, the control of State security and judicial bodies have worked well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, the press has announced that the doctor's cadastre, eagerly awaited in order to objectiveise the debate on the granting of future INAMI issues, will soon be published. Some journalists have already been able to learn about the cadastre following leaks and announce a shortage of doctors in Wallonia. At a time when the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation has just approved the preliminary draft decree establishing a year-end competition in medicine and dentistry, the Medical Offer Planning Commission would advise in its report to put in place mechanisms to make the profession more attractive to young people. This is paradoxical. Minister, I heard you this morning on a French-language radio taking your distance from these statements. However, your cadastre confirms what we have been denouncing for years, namely the fact that many registered doctors do not practice or almost any more. It is noted that 9,000 doctors have an INAMI number but do not practice. It seems to me that this is a fact that leaves little room for interpretation. The landscape of the medical supply is not that of the plethora put forward for years to justify a numerus clausus and more recently a screening examination, especially since the gradual aging of doctors is confirmed. Minister, when will this cadastre be finally published? Could you confirm its contents? I noted in your statements in committee that the data would be listed by gender, age, region of residence, nationality, country of graduation and INAMI sector. Do you confirm that? Last but not least, I would like to know whether this cadastre will finally make it possible to facilitate an agreement on a number of INAMI numbers to be granted in the future in order to better correspond to reality, or whether we are going to go back to data interpretation battles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, a number of lessons can already be learned from this dynamic cadastre. The first is that only six in ten doctors, whether they are general practitioners or specialists, are actively practising medicine. The second is that there are very important regional differences, since there are 20,000 in Flanders and 9,740 in Wallonia. These regional differences are even more pronounced when looking at general practitioners, since there are more than 7,500 in Flanders, 3 400 in Wallonia and 598 in Brussels, in full-time equivalents. The third lesson is that the age pyramid shows us that it is time to sound alarms since seven out of ten general practitioners are on their way to retirement. Minister, this confirms that pockets of shortage are more marked in the south than in the north of the country. They are also more pronounced for general medicine and certain specialties. Moreover, the problem of succession is important with a pyramid of ages largely reversed today. These findings confirm the reality on the ground. Of course, a fine analysis is necessary, but the situation is too challenging to postpone the necessary decisions. Minister, what about this cadastre, this analysis and, above all, the measures that must be taken before this analysis? On the one hand, we need to review the federal quotas for INAMI numbers and the penalty you want to apply to Francophones. On the other hand, strong additional measures are needed for the attractiveness of general practitioners and specialists in need, such as group practices, the different organisation of black nightguards or the upgrading of the intellectual act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, we quickly addressed this issue in the Committee on Public Health yesterday. On that occasion, it was agreed that you and the Chair of the Planning Commission would come and present the finer results of this dynamic cadastre. However, I have joined the topical questions because I would like to ask you a few questions today. This cadastre is dynamic and more dynamic than the one based on previous data. At the same time, there is a lack of dynamism as some data are missing. In fact, I asked you about this in committee. Indeed, we do not have the exact places of delivery but the places of residence. However, we know that medical specialists working in hospitals, particularly in university hospitals, do not practice where they live. The cadastre also transforms the remuneration received through INAMI reimbursements into full-time equivalents. It is then inferred how many doctors work full-time or part-time. It is concluded that Flemish doctors work more than Walloon doctors. When we look at the numbers – in any case, the ones I've seen – we actually see that doctors actually work more than a full-time equivalent. We have to legitimately question ourselves. Are we working more because we refuse to delegate to younger people or because there is a shortage? Do we take into account the time it takes to devote to a patient? Working more than full time does not mean working better. That doesn't mean it's good. This may also reflect dysfunctions in the exercise of the profession or in the professional landscape. I would sincerely like, Madam Minister, to take the time to examine these different data so that we do not have to give ourselves, in a hasty manner, misinterpretations that would give a truncated view of reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u50	Madam Secretary, it is strange and not strange that we are standing here. It is strange because you made it clear in committee yesterday that you cannot give any conclusions, that it is now up to the Planning Committee, that no conclusions can yet be drawn from the land register. We are very pleased that you are doing your part in the story, as you have always promised. On the other hand, it is not strange that we are standing here. What's the hurry with the land register? Today, what we have always said is that we want to abuse the land register in order to have an excuse not to comply with what has to be done for 18 years, namely to organise an entrance examination on the Walloon side, as has been the case for years on the Flemish side. That is what we are trying to do, Madam Secretary. I hope you will not go along with that, you have been very clear to this day, and I hope you will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Caprasse, Fonck, Gerkens and Van Peel, as I said yesterday in the Committee on Public Health, the cadastre was presented and adopted in the plenary of the Planning Committee on 8 May. This dynamic cadastre, "Plan 4" in jargon, is a very technical document which will be the working instrument used by expert experts of the Planning Commission in order to be able to set the quotas established for the years 2022 and following. It is impossible to draw immediate, premature and very superficial conclusions about these future quotas for the time being, as well as reports of alleged shortages or surpluses of medical personnel. Caution and reflection should be exercised in the light of the wealth of information contained in this dynamic cadastre. In this regard, I regret the leaks that have been organised – and well organized, moreover, like all leaks. The Planning Commission has adopted a proposal to retain for the year 2021, that is, the one during which most of the students who will start their course in 2015-2016 will be expected to graduate in medicine, the same quota as for the period 2019-2020 – that is, 1,230 certificates. As I have already pointed out, it is premature to draw conclusions from the dynamic cadastre on the alleged shortage of general practitioners or certain specialists. In this regard, however, I would like to stress that many young doctors will join the labour market in view of the high number of students who are currently studying medicine. Now, the Planning Commission will be able to begin its work very quickly to produce substantive analyses using the dynamic cadastre – given the desired future care landscape – in order to set quotas for the years 2022 and later. I will follow this work closely. As Mrs Gerkens, chairman of the Committee on Public Health, said, "an appointment with the committee has already been made". Mrs Van Peel, Minister Marcourt did indeed present his preliminary draft to the Walloon Government last Friday. I received that draft today at 10:46. You will understand that I would like to discuss this first and not comment now. However, one thing remains clear: his so-called filter will also have to convince the Flemish and the federal government in terms of effectiveness and legal feasibility. I'll be sure to watch over that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I understand that it is not obvious when there are some interpretations of leaks. However, I believe that what has been said reflects reality. I also believe that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is not quite to be compared with Flanders. Each Region has its own specificities. It should also be taken into account in the analysis of the cadastre as soon as it is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u53	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although it is quite disappointing. It is not because the dynamic cadastre does not fix you or arrange the Dutch-speaking parties of this government that it is necessary to send him back to the oblivion very quickly. To decide nothing and to wait is to say that we don't care what is happening on the ground, even though each year of postponement is a year that worsens the situation, whether it is in relation to the reality of the pockets of shortage or to the succession that is becoming more and more difficult. When governors have to requisition general practitioners to take over the guards – I look at some of my colleagues, especially in the Hainaut boot, but that's just one example – then everyone thinks there's actually a problem. In the meantime, we are letting things go, even though it takes nine years to train general practitioners and twelve years to train specialist doctors. It is, of course, today that we must be concerned about it. In this Planning Commission, some have called for a review of federal quotas. I insist, Madam Minister, that since you want to impose a penalty and a penalty on Francophones, the results of the Planning Commission must be taken into account in these negotiations. As I was slightly interrupted, Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Van Peel. Francophones have now clearly decided to put in place a selection. Personally, I would not have put it at the end of the first year, but rather at the beginning of the first year with a year of preparation for those who need it. That being said, the solution chosen is also the one proposed and widely supported, if not unanimously, by the universities and deans of the faculties of medicine. We can no longer accept that successful students who are doctors do not get an INAMI number. The important thing is that this selection is ultimately efficient and effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u54	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, one of the difficulties is that we operate backwards. It would be interesting to start from a study of the needs on Belgian territory, at the level of the different care areas, in order to determine the reality on the ground, the state of health of the population and the needs of the latter, how to organize themselves to meet the said needs by offering a care offer. The aim here is to determine which providers are needed, where, when and how they should be allowed to practise their profession. As long as we are not part of a needs-based approach, we will rely on beliefs and assumptions resulting from statistics. For example, some are convinced that in order to organize and have the right and balanced number of doctors needed, a survey must be made of the students who have started medical studies. It's the world upside down! Since the cadastre and the current figures will only be taken into account in the programming established after 2022, I would urge that the effort be made to initiate an interactive approach that will allow us to know the reality on the ground, in the different care areas, in the different areas by being aware of the fact that a functioning public health system favours, first, the first line, that is, the local doctors, the general practitioners and, second, the organization of specialized care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. Mrs. Fonck, I'd like to reassure you, although you're not listening right now. As far as the register is concerned, it is equally important for us to make an accurate calculation of quotas in the future. Above all, I was very happy to hear you say something after 18 years of your own youth department awakened you last weekend, at last, which makes sense, namely that such an exam should not be taken at the end of the year but at the beginning of the year. This makes sense for the students, especially in view of the fact that the dossier has been dragging on for eighteen years. There's one thing I don't understand very well. For a party that is so important to the federal level, it takes a very long time for you to listen to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u56	Madam Minister, you will tell me that the problem of excessive or uncontrolled consumption of alcohol is not a new problem, but in my personal capacity, I have been asked in recent hours by the OECD report, which highlights a number of concrete, objective and challenging elements: the significant increase in uncontrolled consumption among women and, in particular, among young people with binge drinking (excessive consumption in a reduced period of time). A number of rather simple assumptions are made in this report: these drinks are readily available and financially accessible. The report also highlights the harmful effects of advertising in this area. In terms of figures, I was surprised to see that this uncontrolled consumption problem would affect approximately 900,000 people in Belgium. There is a financial impact in terms of public health of €4.2 billion with very serious effects on human health as well as other consequences such as increased road accidents or violence. As you know, minister, under the previous legislature, an alcohol plan had been started. Unfortunately, this plan could not be approved by the then government because there were oppositions, among others, from your party. Today, you are the Minister of Health, so you have a responsibility in terms of public health. Do you intend to implement an alcohol plan, organized and coordinated with federated entities with prevention responsibilities? When do you intend to implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u57	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague has already said, yesterday the OECD proposed a study on alcohol abuse in Europe. Actually, there was good news: people learn from the figures that alcohol consumption in the West is generally falling. Nevertheless, alcohol remains a real killer: in twenty years alcohol as a cause of death worldwide climbed from eighth to fifth. So there remain a large number of pain points. As has just been mentioned, these pain points are women, highly educated women, if I have understood correctly, women and young people. The problematic use of alcohol among young people continues to peak, unfortunately also in our country. It is only from March that the emergency doctors have called the alarm because the victims of binge drinking or excessive alcohol consumption in young people flood the emergency services and they are constantly seeing this increase. Eight to ten percent of Belgians drink too much alcohol and their social costs are estimated at EUR 4.4 billion per year. The previous Minister of Health had a so-called alcohol plan ready to deal with a number of issues. According to the newspapers, it was then disposed of under the influence of a number of Open Vld excellences. Today, Open Vld delivers the same Minister of Health: you are, Mrs De Block. We would now like to know what your plans are in this connection. The group of emergency doctors a few months ago, the OECD yesterday evening, perhaps again tomorrow the weekend accidents: what is your plan regarding alcohol abuse among young people, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u58	Mr Frédéric, Mrs Jiroflée, I have also read the OECD report with interest and I have two main points. First of all, although a so-called Scandinavian model is sometimes defended with ardour and certain measures quickly regarded as protective measures or promotion of public health are highlighted, the report nevertheless gives a nuanced picture of the situation. Over the past 20 years, Belgium has experienced a 20% decline, while consumption has increased in countries such as Finland, Sweden and Norway. Secondly, as Minister of Public Health, I believe that this general development is positive, but alcohol abuse, on the other hand, has become a problem that affects far too many citizens, especially women and children. Even if one fifth of the population consumes about 65%, this is a figure that cannot be ignored. That is why I am also pleased that the Treatment Demand Indicator has been in force since 1 January. This registration must be carried out by all general and psychiatric university hospitals, and must provide us with national figures on the number of treatment of insured persons that have been started. It can therefore guide us towards a more appropriate treatment framework for one or the other specific psychoactive substance. However, the report is also very clear: preventive measures, however expensive, give a very high long-term cost-effectiveness. Since it is a competence of the Communities and the Regions, I will also propose that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health consider how alcohol abuse can be combated through different perspectives. Finally, I would like to repeat my earlier answer on the issue. The response of the population cannot only be expected from the government. There is at least the responsibility of the citizens themselves. Any abuse of alcohol by any group of people must be dealt with wisely by both.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u59	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although it leaves me a little on my hunger. I can share at least one element: consumer control is an individual responsibility. When you say that the image of the OECD report is a nuanced image, I find that 900,000 people and an impact of 4.2 billion are more than nuance. This is challenging in terms of numbers. You're saying you're waiting for the numbers to see who started the treatments. Admit it! But I don't have an answer about your plan. At no time did you say that, compared to what happened before, you intended to implement this plan. I'm sorry. Minister, to refresh your memory, I took up a statement from a member of your party in the Standaard in 2013 – it doesn't go back to Mathusalem. Dans une interview, un éminent responsive de l'Open Vld disait: "Everyone from the age of sixteen must be able to drink a beer from the vending machine." That's pretty revealing. Anyway, that's not my way of looking at it. I expect the Minister of Public Health to take on her responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you are putting everyone to work and that you wish to raise awareness of the Inter-Ministerial Conference for this purpose. However, I do not hear very concrete measures. However, a number of things can be tackled at federal level as well as at regional level. Our group wants action. We will table a resolution because we believe that this issue really needs to be discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u61	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Federal Office of the Plan published its report entitled Economic Outlook 2015-2020 for Belgium. This document expresses all that our country is expected to receive and compose in the coming years. It demonstrates the relevance of the measures that have been put in place by the government. It is also an excellent bulletin for the work of our ministers. A number of positive elements need to be taken into account in this report. On the one hand, the increase in GDP: 1.2% for 2015; 1.6% for 2016; 1.7% for 2017, as well as the 200 000 jobs it envisages for the period 2015-2020. This is an important element, especially since the participation rate will rise from 67.2% to 70%, and this will also significantly affect the 55-65 age group. On the other hand, there will be a significant reduction in unemployment, as we will return to the unemployment rate we knew in 1991. There will also be a reduction in the budget deficit. This year we would reach 3% and next year 2.7%. We are promised 1.1% in 2020. Minister, SMEs play a very important role in job creation. They are extremely dynamic and creative. The government, through the measures it has taken for them (the 40 points of your plan), strongly supports these SMEs in their initiatives. Minister, what is and will continue to be the share of SMEs in job creation at national level? Among the measures that you have taken for SMEs, which are significant for their development?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u62	Mr President, honourable Member, the report we have just received from the Federal Office of the Plan is an extremely interesting document in that it marks the 2015-2020 outlook and details some of it. You have quantified the outlook in terms of growth trends, job creation. Let me also mention that, according to the report, we should have a reduction of 54,000 unemployed over the same period. In addition, including increases and decreases, the private sector is expected to generate an additional 228,000 new posts during the reporting period. Of course, we must have the rigour and the nuance to say that some of these elements are motivated by circumstances linked to the international context, to the cost of energy, to the relationship between currencies and to European policy. But at the same time, with the same determination, we must stress, and the Plan Bureau is taking over from it, how much of the reforms undertaken by this Parliament and this Government are likely to bring about these effects. Among other things, there are reforms in the areas of wage costs, indexing and pensions. In this context, you are right to stress how important SMEs play a role in this redeployment. They represent, you asked me for this figure, 69% of the jobs created in the market sector. The measures we have taken on burden reduction, administrative simplification, access to finance, very recently still concerning starters, the improvement of the social status of self-employed people, the internationalisation of SMEs, are, ladies and gentlemen, key decisions in this regard. There is something that needs our attention, and I will end with that, Mr President. This is alluded to in the report. I urge those who have not yet had time to read it in detail this weekend. One important element mentioned in this report is trust. It's the confidence you found. It is the mobilization of everyone in the business world, in the political world and in the population, because this confidence will also bring with it prospects and the future. That's the call I'm making today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u63	Minister, the answers you provided to us, along with the figures provided by the Federal Office of the Plan, show us how extremely attentive the government and your department is to business and its development. At least, this government is committed to the interests of our businesses in order to give them more competitiveness and opportunities to create jobs. This was not always the case in previous governments. This government has taken action. Thank you, Minister. I would also like to say that you will be able to count on the support of all the Members of our majority to support you in your action for our businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u64	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the theme of this issue is intended to be illustrative of a set of products. The media talked about Herve's cheese, made from raw milk, but we could also talk about beer, for example. There is growing concern among producers about certain controls. Let us be clear, product safety is fundamental and important to us. In this case, listeria is indeed a deadly bacterium. How to organize this mix between craft production and a quality economy? How can we make this marriage so that our local artisans and producers can live on their products, made near home? This is the phenomenon of the local economy. I would like to go back to the attitude of AFSCA in these cases. It seems to me that she is not sufficiently concerned with advice, partnerships, assistance and that she appears rather repressive about this situation. The fear of local producers concerns competition at European level. They feel that controls are not the same everywhere. Minister, how can this local economy be married with consultation, assistance and partnership? You issued a press release a few hours ago, and as a result, some producers report little contact with AFSCA. After the detectives passed, there was no return to them and I think I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u65	Mr de Lamotte, the question you are asking is very important for the sector concerned, for processors and consumers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listeria is a real danger to public health. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) reported in its last report on the status of infections caused by this bacterium between 2009 and 2013. It should be noted that 1,763 cases of listeriosis have been recorded in all Member States and 191 of them have died as a result of this infection. Sources of food infection are diverse, and raw milk cheese is one of the most important processing environments. On the other hand, it should be noted that listeria is not an element that would be necessary for the production or processing of cheese. Let us therefore agree that the bacterium is pathogenic and dangerous. In some cases, it may even be fatal. The relevant standards are defined by a European regulation. At the manufacturing stage of such a food – that is, at the exit of the workshops – one must be in a situation of total absence of this bacterium in the collected samples. However, analyses were able to detect a presence of the virus. A consultation was held with the manufacturer in order to define the follow-up to be given to these products, so that frozen lots could be managed in terms of risks by the producer. The Agency obviously recognises the realities on the ground and hopes that broad consultation can take place with the producers concerned. However, a difference in food security between artisanal production and larger-scale production cannot be tolerated. Believe me, who is the son of a farmer and who myself has processed raw milk, I am paying attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u66	Mr President, my question was also about how to marry local products, food security and the local economy. I have not heard an answer in this regard. Secondly, I would like to go back to the positive consultation that the AFSCA must have with the people who are under control. They need help and support rather than repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, I know that your night was short, but you certainly had the opportunity to read the press. This morning, La Libre headlined: "Climate targets 2013-2020: the funny belgo-belge climate". Indeed, you are still looking for an agreement on the allocation of climate goals 2013-2020. There's an emergency! There is an urgent need not only for renewable energy production and greenhouse gas reduction targets but also for climate finance targets from an international perspective. We are at the forefront of the Paris Summit. Preparation is under way. Belgium's credibility is at stake. Should we recall that we have a liability in this area with the saga of non-decision at the previous federal government summit? I must remind you that the commitments made by Belgium in the United Nations are hard to be followed by quantified promises and even more difficult to honour. We have payment delays for four years (2010, 2012, 2013 and 2014). If our information is correct, a meeting of the National Climate Commission will take place on Monday at 2 p.m. and discuss the topic. Associative actors called you directly. I want to be their relay here. They fear that an agreement will be reached exclusively on the first two points (greenhouse gases and renewable energies), leaving aside the whole international problem of financing climate policies. Minister, what mandate are you going to give your representatives? What is the federal government's mandate? Is it in line with the downward trend, as the Flemish government has done with only two priority objectives (greenhouse gases and renewable energy), abandoning international financing policy issues? Finally, I would like to check with you that the commitments you will make in terms of federal financial participation will be complementary commitments and not substitutions for development cooperation policies, that this will not be an opportunistic recycling but an additional envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I read the communiqué of the Climate Justice Platform on Monday and, like you, because we spend our days and nights together, my night was short but I have in mind all the elements that you submit to me. On 18 May 2015, the National Climate Commission will look again at the intra-Belgian agreement on burden sharing on the basis of a compromise proposal from the Brussels Presidency – you know it is a rotating presidency – of the Commission. I share the view of the Climate Justice Platform and I say with it that it has become urgent to reach an agreement that is part of the commitments set out in the government agreement and is one of my priorities, as I have already said on several occasions. The outstanding issues since the end of the previous parliamentary term are mainly concerned with three elements: renewable energy objectives, revenues from the auctioning of ETS allowances between the Regions and the federal government, and the Belgian contribution to international climate finance. As regards the first point, the recent announcement by the Walloon Region that it would be willing to increase its share of the Belgian objective leads us in the right direction, even though this proposal is apparently conditioned by auction revenues. She wants to get a significant share of these revenues. This last point therefore remains the main political issue to be resolved, obviously having a very direct connection to the issue of international climate finance. I would remind you that, for the time being, 260 million euros are being blocked in the Belgian account fed by this auction. I also refer to the potentially damaging situation for Belgian credibility as an international partner with regard to Belgian contributions to the Green Fund at the Lima Summit and about the Adaptation Fund after the Warsaw Summit in 2013. It is therefore very clear that, in the agreement on burden sharing, a long-term and structural solution is needed for the distribution of Belgian contributions to international financing. For me, an agreement on these last two points must absolutely complement the agreement already almost reached on the other elements of the burden sharing package with a view to a comprehensive agreement. I would like to add that the conclusion of an agreement on allocation will also have to make it possible to draw up a new national climate plan for the period 2015-2020. In this regard, the Council of Ministers is committed to implementing new federal policies and measures, resulting in reductions of 7,000 kilotonnes, in addition to the 12,250 kilotonnes generated by the federal measures already in place. In a logic of good governance, it is also essential to agree on how the responsible entities will pay any penalties against Belgium in the event of a failure to fulfil our European and international obligations. In the same vein, I am personally convinced of the need for a high degree of coherence between the policies pursued by the different levels of power and for better cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u69	I invite you to finish, Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u70	There is a need to make better use of cooperation bodies such as the National Climate Commission. I shall endeavour, in the exercise of the federal presidency of this Commission, to strengthen its role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u71	I'm removing the microphone, Madam Minister. You're exaggerating! You spoke for more than 3 minutes and 20 seconds. There are limits not to be exceeded!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u72	(...) You can write to me; I will answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u73	I write very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u74	I write very well too. In fact, your committee chairman, Mr Delizée, said that I had a very good handwriting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u75	Mr President, you have seen all the difficulties that Mr Delizée may face when he is chairing the committee. You just experienced it. That said, we could handle it last night. We'll manage today too! As far as the substance of your response is concerned, minister, I share your intentions and your point of view when you say that the financing of international climate policies must be an integral part of the agreement. In this respect, you stand out from the position taken by the Flemish Government. However, despite the length of your answer, you have not confirmed that the federal commitment will be a complementary financial commitment and that there is no question of going from the development cooperation envelope. Minister, I would like to allow you to use the time I have left to reassure me or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u76	Mr President, Minister, we all have to live with the consequences of the sixth state reform, and that is not easy for anyone. It's not N-VA's state reform. The fact that it is not easy is demonstrated, among other things, by the transposition of a European directive designed to make driving in tunnels safer. That may seem banal, but it is not, because once again the sixth state reform is causing problems. It is up to you, Madam Minister, to determine what knowledge and skills are needed to drive safely through tunnels, while the regions are competent for the practical side, so how to acquire this knowledge and skills. For example, you are competent to define the driving behaviour in a tunnel, so how to drive, but the subject matter, the theoretical examination, is a competence of the Regions. Not only the transposition of this Directive creates a conflict with the Regions, other royal decisions relating to driving licences also create conflicts of jurisdiction. For example, it is up to the Regions to decide who can be a supervisor. That's not federal jurisdiction. However, there are also many examples where the consultation between you and the Regions is going well. Now, some draft royal decrees are in danger of conflict, leading to proceedings being brought before the Council of State. I am sure that you agree with me that this should be avoided and that consultations should be preferred. Madam Minister, on behalf of the N-VA Group I would like to ask the following questions. This conflict was noted by the Flemish Region, but how did the other Regions respond to your royal decisions regarding driving licences? Do you intend to modify those designs of royal decrees? Consultation should be preferred, but how do we get out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Dumery, my administration identified several grey areas a long time ago. These were identified at meetings of the working groups meeting before the entry into force of the Special Law of 6 January 2013 on the Sixth State Reform. Since the beginning of this legislature, there have been several meetings between my cabinet and my colleague, Minister Weyts, on these grey areas. The dialogue between the federal government and the regions is thus maintained. I wish it would stay that way. As a result of a press article, I have indeed seen new grey areas with regard to driving licences. I have to add right away that I don't know the tone of it. The Council of State has already given an opinion, without commenting on the content. I haven't received any advice from the Regions yet. If these grey areas exist effectively, I am in favour of and remain open to the widest possible consultation with the Regions, both in the interests of citizens and those active in the profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u78	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that we in the Federal Parliament will often be confronted with the uncertainties created by the sixth state reform. We will not be faint about this, it is a lack of clarity that we announced in the previous legislature. Unfortunately, there will often be tensions due to these grey areas, due to these uncertainties. We must also try not to rush into uncertainty at this federal level, so that procedures at the Council of State can be avoided. Your constructive attitude in this regard is crucial, and I have been able to conclude from your reply that you also consider this to be very important. Knowing Minister Weyts, a meeting with him is certainly possible. So I can really recommend that you stay in touch with him to resolve such disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, today Mr Juncker unfolds his migration plans on behalf of the European Commission. One of the issues under discussion is the quota system. Belgium has 21 refugees out of 10 000 inhabitants. That's a lot more than the average of 12 refugees out of 10 000 inhabitants. Some countries are opposed, others are in favour of quotas, mostly on the basis of the number of refugees they are receiving or not receiving. You leave us in the dark about that. You refuse to give an answer when the press asks you to do so. Whatever they may be, even though our country may have to accept fewer refugees, it is still a violation of our sovereignty and of the fact that we ourselves must be able to establish an asylum policy. I still believe that it would be much better to strive for zero migration, where we would receive refugees on our own continent and where we would adapt the Geneva Convention to that reality, but on our side. I would like to hear from you what the Belgian Government's position is on the quota system and on the migration plan proposed today by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u80	Mr Dewinter, the new European Agenda on Migration, which was proposed this afternoon, is an ambitious programme which sets out the guidelines for European migration policy for the coming years. Behind the scenes we have worked hard to weigh that policy as well. The result is therefore much more balanced than the performance you give. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be blind to the fact that today the world is facing the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. When thousands of people die at sea, our first priority is to save human lives, including by sending out our Navy ship Godetia, which is leaving Zeebrugge's military port tonight. Then, of course, the question arises: how do we deal with migratory flows? For that, I see three broad lines in the Agenda on Migration. Firstly, the Commission is putting forward an action plan to tackle trafficking in human beings, including concrete measures such as freezing financial assets, international prosecution of smugglers and destroying or confiscating boats before they can be used by smugglers. Secondly, there is solidarity between the Member States, which would become binding in the long term. What that means precisely for Belgium, the Commission will continue to clarify by the end of the month. Mr Dewinter, I hear you saying that we cannot go along with this in any case. However, Belgium has for a very long time been making an effort which is much higher than the European average. For me, therefore, a more equal distribution means that countries which are currently doing very little, such as some Eastern European countries, must do more. I take note of the fact that you seem to be opposed in principle to a more equal distribution, even if this would reduce the pressure on Belgium. At the same time, the European Commission wants more solidarity in the area of resettlement. We also take responsibility for this. We have increased our commitment to relocating the most vulnerable from 150 to 550 resettlers for 2015. We are already complying with the key that Europe is asking of Belgium. In other words, the Commission confirms that Belgium is already making a major contribution on its own initiative. I hope that the European Commission's initiative will also lead the other European Member States to assume their responsibilities. Thirdly, the new migration agenda also provides for an important chapter on return. Those who do not have a right of residence and who have been removed must return, if not undermine confidence in the whole system. This clearly shows that the return policy, which is the cornerstone of Belgian policy, is also reflected at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, this government wants to be gentle for the most vulnerable and hard for those who take advantage of our hospitality. That is also the policy that I fully defend at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, I note that you are fully involved in the European story and that you are also defending quota policy. You say that might be in our country's favour. That's right, maybe. There may be 1.3 million refugees coming to Europe this year. What will you do, if the number increases, which is almost a certainty? These quotas will no longer be to our advantage, but to our disadvantage. In any case, we are giving away our sovereignty to Europe. I believe that Europe is not the solution to the problem of immigration. Europe is the problem, with the open border policy and the far too much tolerance and all that goes with it. Mr Secretary of State, it is not true that the quota system would be binding on all European countries. You know that very well. There are three countries which have obtained an exemption in the past, namely Ireland, the United Kingdom and Denmark. They will not comply with the quotas. You know that. They have already been authorised by Europe. So let us tell the truth to the people, instead of selling your truth as the only blissful one.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u82	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Patrick Dewael and Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Patricia Ceysens and Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mr Frank Wilrycx, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Denis Ducarme) amending the law of 29 June 1983 on compulsory schooling in order to begin compulsory schooling at the age of five, No. 1086/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u83	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Philippe Blanchart) on the introduction of a compulsory European traceability system for the so-called 'conflict ore', No. 1091/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u84	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents at this noon, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Patrick Dewael and David Clarinval, Patricia Ceysens and Kattrin Jadin, Frank Wilrycx, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and MM. Vincent Van Quickenborne, Benoît Friart and Denis Ducrame) amending the Act of 29 June 1983 concerning compulsory education in order to introduce compulsory education from the age of five, No. 1086/1. Reference to the Committee on Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture - the motion for a resolution (Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Philippe Blanchart) on the establishment of a compulsory system for the traceability of "conflict mines" at European level, No 1091/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u85	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1005/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1005/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u87	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u88	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 2. (1022/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Frédéric Daerden to Article 2. (1022/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 48 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Bellens voted against. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1022/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (1022/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 3. (1022/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 3. (1022/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[38]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (1022/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (1022/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 49 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Mrs Jadin voted against. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 3. (1022/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 3. (1022/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u90	Mr President, I will speak very briefly because I was unable to do so in the general debate. Our group will abstain from this project. As a matter of principle, we are in favour of any mechanism for consultation, co-construction of public legislation and the search for scientific support for decisions taken. One might think that is what this is about, Mr Minister for Pensions, but this consultation will not be respectful of the social partners under consideration. It's oriented. It ignores the important dimensions of pension reform, such as alternative financing. Therefore, we cannot give our confidence to this government's project by too much orientation, by too unbalanced and which, in the end, wants only one thing: to validate an unbalanced reform, which is not visionary despite the speeches of the Minister of Pensions, but which will lead, tomorrow, to a system that is less fair and less effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u91	Mr President, I shall be relatively brief. Our group will vote against it because we cannot accept this National Pension Committee, which is supposedly putting in place a consultation which is only a "Canada Dry" consultation, which is there only to support the reform of the government and not a profound reflection on pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u92	Mr President, our group will abstain. We support the principle of bringing together experts on such an important and complex subject as the future of pensions. Still, we must listen to the opinions of the experts and not simply follow those who serve the government's options by ignoring those who do not fit your choices. But you did it about the abolition of the pension bonus. The experts of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 did not recommend it, but on the contrary. You went over it, without even asking for further impact studies. In this case, again, you are neglecting a recommendation from the experts by refusing a right of initiative for the opinions to be given by the National Pension Committee. We cannot support this paradox of wanting to be surrounded by experts to endorse a policy that is decided in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u93	Mr President, the PTB-GO Group will vote against the draft bill. That is difficult to hear in front of Parliament's right wing. The reasons for this are clear. Firstly, there is no diversity in the committee. It is an academic committee in which there is agreement that longer work is needed. We would have preferred much more diversity in committee. Apparently, the experts all agree that longer work is needed. I really don't think that's acceptable. Secondly, there is talk of a concert committee, but everything has already been decided by the government. So let us leave a little room for real negotiations, and not for a committee that only bears that name, but in fact simply wants to impose longer work on all workers in our country. We will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u94	Mr President, as I said this morning, we too will be voting against it with complete conviction. It is unlikely that this government will continue to invoke only the report of the Pension Commission, but each time only executes documents that fit it. It was the intention of the Pension Commission to create a broad support base for the entire pension reform with the National Pension Committee. It was the intention of the Pension Commission to give the National Pension Committee both decisive and advisory powers. That advice was not intended to be restrictive, so not only if the government asks, but also if the National Pension Committee itself wants to give an opinion. The National Pension Committee should even be given decisive powers. Despite the fact that this government is always talking about social dialogue, this government has chosen to fill in the National Pension Committee very restrictively. The National Pension Committee can only give advice on the matters proposed by the government itself, so there is no question of a broad consultation at all, nor of the creation of a broad basis of support. The proposals of the Pension Commission are completely undermined. That is why we will vote against with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u95	Mr. Speaker, as I announced this morning, we will abstain from this bill. Indeed, if we can only adhere to a dynamic involving the social partners in this important task of pension reform, we regret that you are organising a form of bogus consultation since you are muzzling the social partners by leaving them neither the possibility of giving an own-initiative opinion nor the possibility of being able to decide on proposals other than those which are purely and simply in the government agreement. It is therefore a missed opportunity to make the best use of the expertise of the social partners!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u96	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 77 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1022/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1022/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 95 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1023/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1023/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-13-54-plenair-ip046x.u98	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 May 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 21 May 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you an invigorating long weekend. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 May 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 21 May 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
