ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 3948 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u2	Mrs. Smaers is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u3	Madam President, Minister, Europe wants to open up the rules for public procurement to small SMEs as of next year. The European Directive of 28 March 2014 should be transposed into national law by 18 April 2016. The market value of public procurement in Europe is EUR 2 400 billion and in Belgium it is around EUR 50 billion. The aim is to increase access for SMEs to public procurement. They are now often pushed away by the big players, who have more resources to submit customised tender dossiers. The following changes may be an incentive for SMEs to participate in public procurement. Firstly, the possible division of contracts into smaller sub-contracts. Second, the full digitisation of the tender procedure by October 2018. Thirdly, the choice not only of the cheapest supplier. Fourthly, public authorities may ask in advance what contracts are being transferred to subcontractors. Fifthly, price-breakers who are unable to justify themselves are no longer eligible. However, according to the Confederation of Construction, Europe overestimates the impact of these measures. Governments can, with an uncontested justification, continue to avoid the division of a contract. The high cost of labels and certificates can also be a stumbling block for the participation of an SME. Greater freedom of allocation can also create more legal uncertainty. Mr Minister, who is involved in the transposition of the legislation in the government and administration? Is it possible to guide all legislative texts through Parliament by 18 April 2016? What talks has the government already had with civil society? How do you translate their concerns? Have you had any conversations with the Confederation Building? If so, to what extent do you wish or can you also take those concerns into account? In your opinion, are the concerns of the Confederation of Construction justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u4	Madam President, legislation on public procurement is being prepared by the Prime Minister's Public Procurement Service of the Federal Chancellory. This service was entrusted with the preparation of a preliminary draft law on public procurement aimed at replacing the Law of 15 June 2006 and the partial transposition of the Directives 2014/24 on the classic sectors and 2014/25 on the special sectors in the European Union. At policy level, implementation is monitored by the Prime Minister's representatives. Administrative and policy levels are making every effort to ensure the timely transposition of the above-mentioned directives. The submission to the Chamber of Representatives of the relevant draft laws is expected shortly after the summer recess. The preliminary draft law on public procurement is currently being discussed in the Commission on Public Procurement, which is to issue a formal opinion on the preliminary draft law. This work has led to numerous textual changes and a formal opinion. Work is currently under way on the provisions relating to the special sectors and on the various provisions. The final opinion for the whole text will take about a month. Consultations with civil society shall be concentrated within the abovementioned Advisory Commission, the functioning of which shall be governed by the Royal Decree of 10 March 1998 setting up the Public Procurement Commission. For the composition of this committee, I refer to Article 2 of the Royal Decree. Six effective members were nominated by the Federation of Belgian Enterprises. Several members of the Confederation of Construction were nominated by this professional organisation. They therefore take an active part in the consultations. Some of their comments have already been taken into account. Moreover, my cabinet works closely with the construction federations. The federal government has already taken a number of initiatives to increase SME participation in public procurement. In addition to the measures transposing the above mentioned Directive, the current government is closely following the application of the P&D 2012 circular. For example, in this circular, contracting federal authorities are strongly encouraged to make their contract documents, contract documents or tender forms available online for free via the FPS P&O e-procurement platform. While in the past companies were sometimes only able to consult a specifications for a fee only, this is now made available to the business world directly and free of charge online. In this way, the threshold for the business world and in particular for SMEs is significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, from which I can conclude that this is mainly dealt with by the Prime Minister's cabinet. I understand that there are already some opinions and that a final opinion will be given within one month. I think we are well on our way to getting this through.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u6	Madam President, Minister, my question dates back to 8 May, a while ago. However, there is a constant. The problems in the sector are more poignant than ever before. Last year, Russia's trade embargo imposed on food processors cost EUR 63 million, one third of its exports to Russia. The import ban has mainly harmed our pig sector. Exports to Russia came to zero in 2014 as a result of that embargo. Due to continued demand for support from the pig sector, the European Commission allocated funds to subsidise private pig storage in the week of 2 March 2015. During the next seven weeks 65 000 tonnes of pigmeat were temporarily withdrawn from the market in 18 different countries, including around 2 000 tonnes of pigmeat from Belgium. The pork that was stored in the cooler cells is now released. As predicted, this has a negative impact on pigmeat prices. The aid was withdrawn after seven weeks on a proposal from the Commission and with the agreement of the Member States. The reason was that, according to the Commission, pigmeat prices were stabilised. The European Commission is relying on current market conditions to stop acting. I think that these market conditions have changed a bit in the meantime. An agricultural organization has already expressed its dissatisfaction with the incorrect statistics and the resulting forecasts. After a slight flare-up it goes downhill again with the price of pork. My questions to you are as follows, Minister. In an earlier oral question, you expressed a positive opinion on this European aid measure. Are you still convinced that this was the best support for the needy pig farmers? The meat is back on the market. In the meantime, we know what effect that has. Is it now taking into account a market-distorting effect of private storage? What alternatives did the Commission see when it became clear that this private storage which is now being terminated represents a substantial drop in prices for pig farmers? At the beginning of this year, Dutch representatives were able to reach an agreement between Russia and the European Commission, allowing the Netherlands to re-supply pigmeat. Are there any such agreements in the making for our country? In the meantime, the embargo has been extended for a year. I do not understand that what the Netherlands can do is not happening in our country either. There'll most likely be an explanation. I would have liked some clarification from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Gantois, as you know, the Russian embargo on pigmeat was introduced in February 2014 by the establishment of African swine fever in eastern Europe. I am fully aware of the difficulties facing this sector. That is why I decided at the end of 2014 to delete the contributions to the Animal Health Fund for the pig sector. This measure represents savings for the sector of EUR 3.6 million. In early 2015, I also asked the Belgian Prize Observatory to provide me with a full report on the evolution of prices and exports of pork. I received this very recently and it shows that the price for pig carcasses in January 2015 was 15% lower than in January 2014, a year earlier, while exports decreased by 19,8%. In addition, at the end of May 2015, the Belgian Prize Observatory updated the targeted study on the pig sector. On 22 February 2015, Commissioner Phil Hogan announced at the Paris Agricultural Fair that support for private storage would be granted. Specifically, this means financing the storage of products withdrawn from the market in order to raise the price of pigs again. On 24 February 2015, the private storage aid measure was approved by the Member States on the Management Committee. It is now formally applicable since the week of 2 March 2015. I am convinced that the Commission's decision is in the right direction, given the very difficult and serious context that we know today. Unfortunately, I note that this leverage is not enough, as demonstrated by the recent reduction in pig prices. According to Febev, we see a decrease of between 20% and 40% in the price of meat depending on the pieces, which has never been seen, all the more so because during this period of the year prices increase more because of the barbecues. This decline is therefore mainly due to two factors: a global oversupply and the notification of origin required at European level since 1 April that Belgium, which exports half of its production, is severely disadvantaged. I intend to strongly promote this dossier to my fellow agriculture ministers at the European Agriculture Council on Monday 13 July 2015. As far as your second question is concerned, you should know that a large part of the private storage of pigmeat has been put back on the market. This measure necessarily implies a higher volume of meat which exerts a downward pressure on prices in fine, but the re-marketing of these stocks should in principle take place at much higher market prices than during the storage period. As far as alternatives are concerned, since the beginning of the Russian embargo, it seems obvious that the surpluses resulting from the embargo should be disposed of outside the European Union in order not to increase the pressure on prices in Europe. Because I want to achieve the objective of developing exports, I will make a strong commitment to using all the resources I have at my disposal. As you know, a task force for Russia was set up following the embargo at Belgian level. This brings together the representatives of the multisectoral federations to mitigate the financial impact of the Russian embargo by pooling efforts in the search for new markets. For example, in June, I went to China for two days to sign a memorandum of understanding, which will enable: A number of new pig farms can export to China without a new Chinese inspection visit, but based on the analysis and approval of the BFSA of the corrective measures taken following the Chinese inspectors' visit in 2011. They can then export from now on. I also agreed in principle on the Chinese inspection visit to allow new additional exporting companies. An agreement was reached on the export and approval of companies to allow exports of offal. Unfortunately, progress in pigmeat exports to China is not immediately fully in force. As regards your question on a possible agreement with Russia, at the beginning of this year, at the Green Week in Berlin, a limited number of Member States, including Belgium and the Netherlands, met representatives of the Russian government to discuss the export of pigmeat to Russia. The EU Member States concerned have proposed signing a bilateral protocol setting out the conditions for the resumption of exports of pigmeat. During this discussion, the Russian representative made it clear that exports of pigmeat could only be resumed from Member States which have undergone a favourable Russian inspection of their pigmeat sector. This applies to all the Member States of the European Union, including the Netherlands. At present, no Member State, including the Netherlands, has signed such a protocol for pigmeat. Its exports to Russia remain impossible. It is difficult to estimate how long this embargo will last for EU Member States. You can be sure that, within the limits of my powers, I will continue to monitor carefully the evolution of the profit margins of producers in the pig sector so that they can enjoy a reasonable income.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u8	Thank you, Minister. I think we are pretty much in agreement that the measures taken have not produced the expected results. Eventually, the meat processors won, but the pig farmers didn't. Measures were indeed taken last year in favour of pig farmers. I'm afraid that question is coming again. I have today produced a new question on the accompanying measures. Hopefully it will be discussed in committee. In the meantime, Minister, the figures are not lying. Pig exports to Russia decreased from 180 600 tonnes in 2013 to 31 500 tonnes in 2015. The pig price is now one third of the price the pig grower received in 1985. The cost has now at least doubled. I understand that it is not easy to find a solution to this. The oversupply is indeed one of the reasons why our people are now in trouble. I very much appreciate the efforts you are making to find new markets. However, I would urge you to listen to the agricultural organisations. Last week or this week, they suggested to consider lighter slaughter, which also reduces supply on the market. This hopefully reduces the supply and increases the price. I urge you to take this with you to the European consultation. If nothing happens, this will mean the death penalty for our pig farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u9	Mr Minister, my question dates from May and deals with the number of bankruptcies in April. So the question is a little out of date, but I hope for some clarification. April was not a good month for our companies. There were 9,6% more bankruptcies than in April last year. Especially in Brussels and Limburg, Graydon recorded a sharp increase in the number of bankruptcies in April, by about 39 % and 46 % respectively. The increase for Brussels is explained by the catching-up movement by the Brussels Commercial Courts on the processing of bankruptcy files. In Limburg, it may be a consequence of the impact of Ford Genk's closure on related industries and the changed consumption pattern. The latter has a particular impact on the construction, retail and catering sectors. An important statement according to Graydon is the tightening of the conditions of access to obtaining suspension within a WCO procedure................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The previous government has also taken a lot of negative measures, including a sample fine of 309 % on the amount of the non-reported benefit of all kinds in the case of incorrect or incomplete declaration, an increase in the tax on the benefit of all kinds, e.g. for commercial vehicles and the contribution of the home, an increase in the tax on the payment of the supplementary pension, changes in the VAT regulation including higher fines and a reduction in the deduction, and an increase in the withholding tax, such as liquidation boni, interest and dividends. Fortunately, the current government has already been able to take a number of measures to drastically reduce the number of plague taxes. You just mentioned them in the presentation of the SME plan. Many measures of the SME plan with a limited cost will be implemented quickly, as you mentioned earlier to me. The other measures will be implemented during the rest of the legislature. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, is the law on the continuity of companies being reviewed by your services? If not, why not? If so, when would you be able to tell us the outcome of this? Secondly, how do you view the introduction of the roll right of EUR 1 000 since January 2015? On my third question, you may not have to answer it. Could certain measures in the SME plan be implemented at an early stage, subject to appropriate consultations? I am thinking in particular of measures which have some financial impact, but which can mainly give oxygen to our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u10	Mr President, the law on business continuity will not be reviewed by my administration or my services because this legislation falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. If this law was also signed by the Ministers responsible for Work and Finance at the time, it was because they were setting up a system for the collection of data for the chambers of commerce, which implied the transfer of information on late payment of companies, once by the RSZ for social security contributions, then again by the Finance Administration for company precharges or VAT. A working group was set up by my colleague Mr J.J. &amp; Economics for the integration of bankruptcy law and business continuity law into the Code of Economic Law. Since the law of 27 May 2013 amending different laws on the continuity of companies, which brought the right to roll for the application for the opening of a judicial reorganisation procedure to EUR 1 000, also falls within the competence of the Minister responsible for Justice, it is not for me to comment on this measure, which was introduced by my Justice colleague. However, I have no doubt that this issue will be discussed by the working group set up by the Ministers for Justice and the Economy, which I have just mentioned. Many measures of the SME plan have a budgetary impact and aim to give oxygen to our companies. However, I can tell you what my priorities for 2015 are. Firstly, further introduce the SME plan. Secondly, strengthen the mandates of the business offices. Thirdly, our artisans are revalorizing. Fourthly, examine the problem of electronic invoicing in our SMEs. Fifth, we will review the law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of SMEs. Sixthly, we must improve the normative framework of the intellectual professions. Seventhly, we need to support the neighborhood shops. Eighthly, we need to extend bankruptcy insurance to the forced cessations. Finally, we must improve access to credit, particularly in the context of second chance entrepreneurship. Given the budgetary impact of these measures, consultations will be needed in the government. You already knew that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the first part, I will put the questions to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u12	Mrs. Smaers is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u13	Minister, you have just spoken about crafts in connection with the SME plan, but I will ask you my question. The craft sector is economically and culturally very valuable, as the sector accounts for 35% of all companies subject to VAT in our country and provides employment of around 320 000 people. The legal definition of craftsman was established by the law of 19 March 2014. It was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 15 April 2014 and made artisans self-employed. Firstly, in order to be recognized as a craftsman, the Commission must be provided with a completed and signed information document. The Committee shall examine the application and decide whether the applicant fulfils all the conditions for approval. If the decision is positive, it shall be valid for six years and shall begin on the first day following the date on which the decision was taken. Secondly, at the latest one month before the end of the recognition, the committee will publish its decision on whether or not to extend the period of validity to the craftsman. If it appears from paragraphs 1 and 2 that a person no longer fulfils the conditions, he may appeal to the Council of Officials. Proposal 39 of the SME Plan refers to the introduction of a logo for companies recognised as craftsmen. In consultation with the sector, it will also monitor compliance with the conditions which make it possible to use the status of craftsman and will support activities to valorise the crafts, e.g. Craftsman's Day, Crafts Day and a University of the Crafts. Firstly, how many people have so far appealed to the Council of Officials? What action has been taken on this appeal? Secondly, what is the status of introducing a logo for approved enterprises as a craftsman? Were there any consultations with the sector? Thirdly, has the sector already been consulted on supporting certain activities, such as Crafts in the Kijker, Crafts Day and a University of the Crafts? So what has emerged from this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u14	Colleague, the law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of the craftsman has not yet entered into force. The law stipulates that its entry into force will be determined by royal decree. According to the objective criteria of the definition in the Act, Belgium could count as an absolute limit about 150 000 craftsmen, according to the FPS statistics in 2011. It is my intention to establish the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2016, in other words after the 2015 editions of the Crafts Day and Crafts Day in the Kijker. Since the law has not yet entered into force, the committee does not yet exist. There are therefore no tenders, no tenders have yet been refused and no appeals have yet been made. However, everything should be operational from January 2016, because I have asked my administration to prepare all the decisions that are essential for the proper implementation of the law quickly. Article 14 of the Law of 19 March 2014 on the legal definition of the craftsman states: "The Minister responsible for the Middle Classes shall, on a proposal from the Supreme Council of the Self-employed and the SME, determine a logo which the craftsmen will be able to use to disclose their capacity as craftsmen." I asked the Supreme Court of the Self-employed and the SME to submit proposals to me. The logo proposals that will be submitted to me will have to be discussed in advance in the High Council of the Self-employed and SMEs, in which the various sectors of the craft industry are represented. The register of craftsmen, which will be operational from 1 January 2016, will be accessible for electronic consultation and management by the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think we are all looking forward to the date of 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 5146 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the Flemish dairy barometer presents a gloomy picture of the economic situation in dairy farming in the first quarter of 2015. Since the last quarter of 2013, yields in dairy farming have fallen. Only in 2009 were even lower returns recorded. The yields per 100 litres of milk fell in the first quarter of this year to below the average of the reference period 2008-2012. I would like to admit that 2014 was exceptional and that at that time we had a reasonably good and stable milk price. The decline in yields is due to the sharp fall in milk prices. While in December 2013, the dairy producer received 41.87 euros per 100 litres of milk, in March 2015 it had decreased to 29.2 euros per 100 litres. Previously it was possible to compensate for the loss due to the lower variable costs, but these too have recently begun to rise. Following the abolition of the quota system on 1 April 2015, the expected explosive growth has not been achieved. The producers are careful. A month after the quota was abolished, there was a slight increase of barely half a percent in our country compared to last year. In France and Germany, milk supply even decreased by 3% and 1.3 % respectively. Of course, the low price quotation is not strange about this. In addition, many dairy companies have produced additional milk powder, thus distorting competition on the market. Moreover, Chinese dairy imports have fallen dramatically in recent months, which means that more than 3 billion litres of milk will have to find another market in the short term. Unfortunately, this is a little rosy prospect for our dairy producers. It is true that exports to Algeria, Cuba and the African countries have increased. Prime Minister, what is your vision of the future of our Belgian and European dairy farming? Secondly, will the European Council on Agriculture and Fisheries discuss this? Thirdly, do you know the cause of the drop in imports of milk powder and butter into China? Was this communicated during your recent visit to China?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Gantois, I am fully aware of the constant reduction in the price of milk and I am concerned about that. This is becoming very worrying for farmers. In the longer term, according to the Belgian Confederation of the Dairy Industry, several variables could have a positive impact on the price of milk, namely the raising of the standard of living of the population in growing countries such as India and China, and the continued increase in the world population. The dairy sector in Belgium has unconditional assets, namely the good know-how of our producers, quality products and a positive image, sanitary safety and so on. I hope that they will enable the sector to make the most of its potential. The dossier has been discussed several times in the European Agriculture Council over the last six months. On this occasion, Belgium adopted a very voluntaristic attitude and asked that the intervention thresholds for butter and milk powder be modernised and made more dynamic, taking into account the production costs for farmers and thus the margins. The European Prize Observatory is an essential tool for disseminating data, such as information on supply, demand and prices. As you know, the profitability of companies is linked in particular to the fluctuations in raw material prices. However, this variable is not taken into account in the reports of the European Prize Observatory, as opposed to those of the Belgian Prize Observatory. That is why I asked at the European Agriculture Council that the European Prize Observatory should take into account the margins to provide the most transparent and objectively possible information to producer organisations. I have also asked for the method to be determined by product and geographical area for the measurement of reference production costs, as well as the profit margins that are essential for the survival of farms, by taking more specific account of the regions or regions of countries for a particular production such as milk. At the next European Council, I will intervene with the agreement of the Regions on the point registered by my Polish colleague, in order to maximise the triggering of price support levers to the benefit of our farmers. According to the Belgian Confederation of the Dairy Industry, the milk market is currently negatively affected by the Russian embargo, oversupply of milk and surplus stocks in China. This dossier was not discussed during my visit to China because it does not fall within my specific competence and because the sanitary measures for dairy products destined for China are completed and operational. The crisis is imminent. The crisis is there. So I remain fully attentive and ready to study and support all possible measures for our farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u19	Minister, you have given a rather complete answer. I've made a number of notes. It is a pity that we have to agree that agriculture has been and continues to be in crisis for so long. The tone of my question isn't funny, and there's gonna be another one later. I remember that you will be pleading with Europe for our dairy farmers, who are boycotted by Russia, which continues to weigh. After all, this is an important market which is falling. The combination of low prices and higher variable costs makes it very difficult for our dairy farmers. We speak with caution of more stable prospects, but the price of milk remains too low and therefore our producers' income remains too low.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u20	Mr Minister, the tenor of this question remains the same, as I said earlier. I am referring to this question about the future of the sugar sector. Those who work today in the sugar beet, pig or dairy sector are really not well off. Many farmers are in these circumstances. On the sugar market today it is very restless. The sugar sector is desperate for stability. The latest sugar harvests may have yielded very high yields, but from a financial point of view this is all very little. However, 2014, partly thanks to the good weather and renewed cultivation techniques, was a top year for production. In 13 of the nineteen EU Member States where beet was grown, record yields have been obtained from the field. That should translate into a record payout, but that has not happened, because since January 2013, sugar prices in Europe have fallen by 44%, from EUR 738 to EUR 404, the lowest price level in six years. The temporary European market measures are no stranger to that. After all, when additional import quotas are realized at a reduced customs tariff or even at a zero rate, then the European sugar stocks are only digging up. CIBE, the European federation that defends the interests of sugar beet growers, therefore urgently calls for these exceptional measures to be discontinued because of the fear that the EU market would become even more saturated. Sugar beet growers expect a clear signal from Europe. They advocate additional export opportunities, support for private storage and other accompanying facilities, especially with the abolition of sugar quotas with a view to 1 October 2017. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you have any idea how far the European Commission and a recently established expert group stand in preparing to make the transition from the quota system to the free market as smooth as possible? Will accompanying measures be taken, if necessary, for sugar beet growers within the European Union? I would stress that the farmer does not ask for accompanying funds if it is not necessary. Will the European Commission respond to the wishes of the sector, such as offering private storage for sugar? How do you see the future for Belgian sugar beet growers and the pricing of their products?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u21	Mrs Gantois, I would still like to consult the Regions and Europe before I can answer you. Like you, I am very concerned about this question, but I would like to provide you with a very detailed and precise answer. Therefore, if you agree, I suggest that you come back to defend a more offensive and structured position, because I share your concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u22	Will you give me the answer in writing? I do not know how many committee meetings we will have left. It may also be discussed at the next meeting. That is absolutely not a problem for me, Minister. I'd like to give you one more case. You have just explained your SME plan so beautifully and you talked about entrepreneurs, hard workers, bold and vulnerable companies par excellence. I believe that this whole picture applies seriously to agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u23	To clarify, will the answer be given in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u25	Minister, entrepreneurs who start a second case, even when the first one went bankrupt, are more likely to have a successful case. That is why I believe that we must do everything we can to give new opportunities to entrepreneurs whose first cause was stopped in good faith. Now too many prejudices stand in the way. An entrepreneur who once went bankrupt is branded too often. One of the ways in which bankruptcy can continue to follow an entrepreneur is by keeping track and publishing so-called blacklists. Thanks to the internet, the stigmas stick for a long time and the data can be found by everyone with a mouse click. It's the National Bank that makes the lists. If all debts are paid off, one can be cancelled after one year or after ten years after the origin of the debt if it is not fully paid. That period can be too long for an entrepreneur who wants to start over. Once an entrepreneur has been given the changeability after a bankruptcy, it should be possible to be immediately removed from the list. Now this can only be done by the goodwill of the lender, who passes that on to the National Bank. Even more difficult to erase are the many lists of entrepreneurs that once went bankrupt. They circulate on the Internet. Among other things, Graydon and UNIZO maintain a database in which one can look up bankruptcies. The lists are copied nicely and this makes it even more difficult to start again with a clean slate. Minister, it is clear that such lists stand in the way of a fresh start in life. There is a need for a clear legal framework on keeping, publishing and publishing blacklists. Are you planning to work on a legal framework for keeping and publishing blacklists? Can you ensure that the entrepreneur, possibly through a legal adviser, can arrange for the deletion of the list itself? Do you engage in the debate with organisations such as Graydon and UNIZO, which publish lists of entrepreneurs with a bankrupt business online?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u26	When a person acting in good faith at some point in his life has found himself in the material impossibility of paying his debts on time, which may or may not have led to bankruptcy, and if that situation has occurred some time ago without the person being in that situation again, his past must not, of course, hypothesize the development of his affairs. A study has shown that re-entrepreneurs are generally more likely to have a viable activity than those who start a business for the first time. On that basis, it is important that we provide an adequate legal framework to offer a second chance to those who have been declared bankrupt in good faith. We must therefore ensure that these people do not forever face unjustified, even incorrect, publicity of their past mistakes in their working lives. That is why I believe it is important for entrepreneurs who act in good faith to be able to enjoy protection in the spirit of the protection afforded to every citizen, in particular by the European Convention on Human Rights. By that, I mean the right to be forgotten. Consequently, I will not fail to defend any change to the rules on keeping public or private databases with my colleague in charge of protecting privacy, who strengthens the obligation according to which any information about an entrepreneur should be erased after a reasonable period of time. The law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data already enables any entrepreneur to have false data about him corrected free of charge as a natural person. The law adds that each person also has the right to have the data on him which would not be relevant for the purpose of processing deleted. I will propose to my colleague in charge of protecting privacy to hear the views of UNIZO and Graydon at the round table organised in the context of the reform of the 1992 law, in which the public authorities, businesses and citizens will participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u27	Minister, I am somewhat reassured that you spoke of people acting in good faith. I was talking about that, too, not the cowboys who start a business, stop and start over. For people who are in good faith, it is painful to be confronted with this every time. I am pleased that you will consult with UNIZO and Graydon to resolve this problem, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u28	Minister, Graydon Belgium reports a remarkable increase in the number of bankruptcies. Compared to the month of April last year, there are 9,6% more bankruptcies. In total, 965 companies have deposited the books. That's 85 more than last year, and that's when earlier reports were cautiously positive. So I'm looking at you now, Minister, and at the government. After announcing plans, you and your fellow Members are scandalously lagging behind in implementing them. The previous government has made sure that we have survived the crisis better than other European countries. Inequality in our country had even declined despite the crisis. This was a good basis for increasing consumer and business confidence. We are not even a year away in this coalition and it looks like all these results are being reduced. Inequality is rising again, the number of bankruptcies is back on track and the only measures taken by this government are putting a lot of pressure on society, such as the index jump. It is also striking that, according to Graydon Belgium, mainly small, older companies have gone bankrupt. Maybe the little ones aren't important to this government? Are they underweight? Minister, you presented your SME plan to the press on 27 February. Until yesterday, that was all you did. I say yesterday, because you presented your plan here today. Minister, when will you discuss your SME plan with the sector? How will you reduce the number of bankruptcies? What guarantees are there that this government not only looks at the big companies, but also fights for the interests of the smaller companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u29	Since the beginning of my ministerial mandate, I have invited more than one hundred and seventy professional federations and interprofessional organisations, represented in the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. In this way they have been able to meet the members of my cabinet and explain to them the problems their sector is facing. These meetings also looked at the extent to which these problems could be resolved during this legislature. A number of elements that emerged from these meetings inspired me to draw up the SME plan. As a follow-up, on 29 April last I presented the SME plan to the plenary session of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. For practical reasons, I call on cooperation with the representatives of the sectors concerned to implement certain measures of the plan. For example, I am preparing a State General of Commerce in which I, together with the representatives of the independent entrepreneurs and SMEs concerned, will look for solutions to a number of problems facing small traders and local shops in particular, in particular contractual relationships with suppliers, franchisers, regulations, administrative burdens, security, financing, online trade, attraction and electronic payments. The aim is to examine other labour-intensive sectors such as hotels and restaurants in a similar way. Another priority action is the evaluation of the Law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of SMEs. A new survey of the sector will be organised and will be consulted with the FPS Finance Office, the FSMA and Febelfin. As you know, in order to be in a state of bankruptcy, a trader must have permanently stopped all his payments and even damaged his creditworthiness. In order to reduce the number of bankruptcies, therefore, there is not a single solution, but a set of solutions that together should reduce the likelihood that a trader meets these two cumulative conditions and is therefore bankrupt. The first type of measure is to reduce expenditure by reducing the administrative, social and fiscal burden on our companies. The defiscalisation of overtime in the hospitality sector is one of the measures adopted to illustrate this type of measure. The second type of measure is to improve access to credit and capital for our companies. The tax incentives in favour of crowdfunding and the faster collection of unpaid invoices between companies through the order for payment are all measures that we are currently working on and which illustrate this type of measure. However, these are not the only axes along which we want to work. Because the formation of our entrepreneurs enables them to better assess the risks and to better defend themselves against unforeseen events in business, we will, without delay, evaluate the introduction of fiscal measures aimed at encouraging our entrepreneurs to follow training courses that give them additional tools to better manage their businesses. The content of these training courses will be determined in consultation with the Regions. Finally, since bankruptcies are sometimes the cause of an avalanche of bankruptcies, I have decided to allow the entrepreneur who ceases his business because of its intransigence due to external reasons on which he has no control to benefit from social security for forced cessation, the amount of which will be equal to that of bankruptcy insurance. These measures should give entrepreneurs the opportunity to start over, with a clean slate, without waiting for bankruptcy and without running the risk of putting their suppliers in a delicate situation. The reduction of social security contributions, the revival of the economy and the increase in purchasing power are, of course, the government's strong priorities. Support for SMEs and the self-employed is indisputablely an important axis of the relay. In that respect, no one doubts the strong will of the government and of myself to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u30	Minister, I do not doubt your goodwill, but we all know that taxes and labour costs take a big bite out of an SME's wallet. If there's anything wrong with a very small trader, it's a lot harder than it is in a larger company. That's a fact. If small traders have a setback, this can often have major consequences. I will continue to follow up on this dossier, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u31	Madam President, Minister, from the answers you gave to my earlier questions on bankruptcy and second chance policy, I would say that you are in favour of extending bankruptcy insurance. You already indicated that you were taking measures to make the existence of bankruptcy insurance more known, to extend the mechanism to cases of forced cessation for economic reasons and to make the procedure more affordable. This is a start and I hope that you will come forward with concrete proposals soon. However, the measures you have already proposed are not sufficient. If the failed entrepreneur already knows about the bankruptcy insurance, there are still many obstacles. Firstly, the entrepreneur must take care of everything himself at non-specialised institutions, which is a difficult, time-consuming and costly process. Secondly, it is not allowed to combine the benefits from bankruptcy insurance with other benefits. Even if the other benefit is lower, the bankruptcy insurance lapses. This also applies to sickness benefit for incapacity for work. As a result of this ban, self-employed workers face major financial difficulties when this occurs in the months in which the self-employed become incompetent. Someone with unemployment benefit doesn't have this problem. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, how do you see the reform of bankruptcy insurance? What's gonna fall under it? Will it be able to take away the greeds of entrepreneurs? Secondly, when are you going to start reforming bankruptcy insurance? Thirdly, can you give concrete expression to the measures you have announced before in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u32	Madam President, in my general policy statement I confirmed the following in relation to bankruptcy insurance: "The aim is to extend social insurance in the event of bankruptcy to all forced cessations, including those for economic reasons." With this reform, I want to give a self-employed person whose activity is no longer profitable for external economic reasons the opportunity to change his professional career by receiving this benefit without having to face the impact of bankruptcy in advance. I will also inform you that the ABC is finalising the evaluation report on bankruptcy insurance. I submitted to the Council of Ministers on 25 June a bill authorising the King to extend it to the cessations for external economic reasons. The name will therefore be changed to "Bridging right'. I will do everything I can to ensure that this reform comes to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. It is only logical that I should first like to have the assessment of bankruptcy insurance by the ABC, in particular to determine the criteria for the definition of external economic reasons. It's not that easy. Finally, I can tell you that the Justice and Economic Ministers have set up a working group to reform the bankruptcy law and the law on business continuity and to integrate them into the Economic Law Code, but I have already answered another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u33	Mr. Secretary, you want to delete the right of bridging as soon as possible. Here too, the same story applies. That's a good intention, but can you put a timing on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u34	I have to wait for the ABC's evaluation to give a precise timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u35	Minister, perhaps I will repeat my question once again after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u36	Minister, all my questions are somewhat in line. The law on the continuity of undertakings of 30 January 2009 aims to provide maximum opportunities for firms in difficulty to overcome the difficulties and to save the company or part of it. In 2013, some necessary amendments were made to that law to remove abuses and to focus more on prevention. However, UNIZO continues to argue that the WCO procedure does not have its purpose. Entrepreneurs see the WCO not as a preventive measure, but as a last resort. In other words, the entrepreneur is late and the WCO procedure becomes an accompaniment to bankruptcy rather than a revival. The purpose of that law is to save companies. Two years after the date of the reform of that law, I wonder if that law also does what was originally intended. Are the companies being saved? Mr Minister, do you have a view of the number of companies that are going bankrupt after the application for WCO? Do you have a view of the evolution of the number of companies applying for the WCO procedure and the number of companies going bankrupt afterwards? Can you tell me how long the WCO procedure lasts on average? Do you see any possibility that would also allow a public authority or judicial authority to be the initiator? Are you planning to evaluate the WCO? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u37	Madam, if you want precise figures on the share of companies that have benefited from judicial reorganisation and have nevertheless gone bankrupt, as well as on the evolution of this share before and after the entry into force of the amendment, made by the 2013 law to the 2009 law on the continuity of businesses, I invite you to address you to the Minister of Justice. The same applies to the figures relating to the average duration of the judicial reorganisation procedure. According to the following figures, quoted in a study by Graydon Belgium, the share of companies that went bankrupt in the six months after obtaining postponement under the Act on the Continuity of Enterprises appears to have remained the same before and after the amendment of the Act 2013. That would be around 17%. For the rest, I inform you that the Ministers responsible for Justice and Economics have set up a working group to integrate the bankruptcy law and the law on business continuity into the Code of Economic Law. On the occasion of this integration, measures will be taken to enable the law on business continuity to achieve its objective even better, namely to save businesses. In this respect, an improvement in the mechanisms for identifying firms in difficulty even earlier seems to me to be an interesting improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic215x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll get the figures from the Minister responsible.
