ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet's 6585 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u2	Minister, I am asking this question as a result of a visit to the European Court with members of the Council of Europe. The question was raised a long time ago, namely at the time when the judgment in the Bouyid case, which dates from late September, was up to date. That judgment concerns two Belgian brothers who were upheld by the Court for violating Article 3 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. The two brothers were said to have had an ear in the police department of Saint-Joost-ten-Node. They then launched a procedure which ended with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. In doing so, they have received non-significant compensation. What's your reaction to that? Has there been an investigation into the events at the time in the Commissariat? With what result?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u3	The question of whether that judgment affects the legal order, whether it can be a precedent, is actually a question that needs to be dealt with by the judiciary. So you should ask Mr Geens that question. As far as the police are concerned, that judgment does not have any particular consequences, since it is already a criminal offence to give a blow. Battles and injuries aren't allowed, not even by the police. Slap is considered a criminal offence and is therefore prohibited. Thus, the fact that European justice now regards a blow as a degrading treatment does not alter the principles governing the use of force applicable within the police forces. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I refer to Minister Geens. As far as your second question is concerned, the P Committee has indeed carried out an investigation into the two inspectors concerned. The necessary documents were provided by the Internal Monitoring Service of the zone. A judicial commission was also carried out by the Zone's Internal Control Service, namely the interrogation of one of the two inspectors concerned. The results are also a matter for the Member of the European Court of Justice. A study has therefore been carried out at the two levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u4	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u5	Minister, in the border region with France, in the province of West Flanders, a camera shield was rolled out. All cameras are linked to a provincial server in which all kinds of data are collected such as number plates to be traced and the nature of the facts for which they are ended. West Flanders is, by the way, the only province with such a server. In our view, it would be even better if private cameras could also be connected to that network, such as in car parks or business premises. At the moment that would not be legally possible. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, whether you believe that private cameras should be able to be connected to such a network, and whether you will take any initiatives to make this possible by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u6	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you are absolutely right to say that West Flanders is the only province, but a second province will be added in three months' time. It is another important province with a large world port of which I am not allowed to mention the name. Indeed, certain partnerships between private individuals or authorities and police forces can help to ensure the safety of citizens. This is already the case, for example, for the Neighborhood Information Network. For this purpose, direct cooperation with the police has been developed in specific areas. In this respect, it may be appropriate for the police services to have in real time the number plates read out by the ANPR cameras operated by private individuals. This may help in real-time interventions or in subsequent investigations to determine the constituent elements of a crime or nuisance. Indeed, this is about cameras installed in private places that are accessible to the public, such as a car park. This is about private cameras on a public domain. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that this public-private partnership for the use of security camera performance indicators is being analysed. You know that we are currently reviewing the law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras. I am preparing the revision of that law and I have also asked the General Directorate for Security and Prevention of the FPS Home Affairs to take this aspect with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u8	Mr President, Minister, since the tabling of my question in early October, this issue has seen some turnarounds. Yesterday, I learned new things in the press. You had made a trip to North Africa and suggested that there was, possibly for 2016, an exchange project between the Belgian and Moroccan police officers. Moroccan police officers would come to work in Belgium, in parts of Brussels, Antwerp, Verviers and Vilvoorde. They would be mainly engaged in neighbourhoods that face problems of inequality of opportunity and radicalism. Young Belgians would go to work in Morocco to gain experience in a country with a predominantly Muslim population. These missions would be justified by the fact that our agents do not always respond adequately to interventions in certain neighbourhoods. "It's just cultural," you said at the time. Since then, I have seen in the press that a study had been carried out and that Moroccan police officers in Belgium could increase radicalisation. That's what La Dernière Heure published on Tuesday. Minister, could you confirm to me the existence of this exchange project? How do you justify such a project in view of the diversification policy that needs to be pursued among Belgian police personnel? How do you justify such a project in view of the social action and prevention policies called for in certain neighbourhoods of large cities? How do you plan to organize things? What will be the concrete tasks of these agents? When will these exchanges take place? What will be the duration of the missions of Moroccan agents to Belgium and Belgian agents to Morocco? Which neighbourhoods are specifically affected by this project? Under which authority will these Moroccan police officers carry out their duties? To which State is the financial burden of missions to Belgium or Morocco? Perhaps all this has changed since then!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u9	Mrs Matz, the exchange of Belgian and Moroccan police officers is part of a broader project to prevent violent extremism and radicalism in the context of community policing. This project started with a seminar held in Rabat on 1 and 2 October last year. I confirm that I was there to cover this seminar, in the presence of Moroccan and Belgian policemen. The seminar focused on the exchange of good practices in combating radicalisation and the phenomenon of foreign terrorist fighters. The project is not related to diversity policy in human resources. He was born in the Belgian police services. The idea of the project is to allow all the front-line police officers concerned to deepen their knowledge of the problems of radicalisation and foreign terrorist fighters. The aim of the project is to exchange good practices in preventing radicalisation and violent extremism, which may have a negative impact not only on the sense of security in both Morocco and Belgium, but also on the values of cohabitation and living together in communities, thereby destabilising societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u10	Why? I do not understand how Moroccan police officers can intervene in the prevention of radicalization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u11	They are used to working in the Muslim world. It is an exchange of good practice to learn how to approach certain situations. They have a lot of experience and this has nothing to do with diversity. We also have a diversity and recruitment program in neighbourhoods. Here, these are exchanges of police officers already trained and who have been operational for several years. Before the end of the year, a delegation of up to four members of each police zone participating in the project will visit Morocco. At the beginning of 2016, a delegation of at least six Moroccan police officers and gendarmes will come to Belgium for a working visit to these same police areas. The aim of the project is to exchange experiences and good practices between the police services responsible for preventing radicalisation and violent extremism through the organisation of coaching, awareness-raising and training of trainers. Police officers participating in the exchange course will not have police skills in the territory of the other country. Contrary to what has been read in the press, they will not strengthen local police forces. The project was launched on October 1, 2015. It will conclude with a seminar in Belgium in May or June 2016. These are short-term missions as Belgian police officers' internships in Morocco and vice versa will last a week. Moroccan police officers will not have police powers on Belgian territory but will nevertheless be placed under the responsibility of the police areas concerned. There are currently no plans to implement similar projects with other countries. We should, however, do so. When we have sufficient experience with this project and the evaluation will be positive, I will talk about this project with colleagues from North Africa, for example. We will see together whether it is possible to exchange skills. There is no a priori limit. But for now we are dedicated to this project, which was launched in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u12	Thank you, Minister. Nevertheless, according to this ULB Islam specialist, it is true that this poses identity problems for young people. This could exacerbate the phenomenon of radicalization. This exchange of best practices and experience should not have a counterproductive effect. Did you have an opportunity to look into her study?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u13	Yes. She's talking about something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u14	She's talking about diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u15	She wasn't really familiar with this project. I fully agree with what she wrote, but it's talking about something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u16	Because it's not about diversity. If I may, there has been a lot of criticism about your initiative. The latter would deserve to be explained again, in any case on the francophone side, because many saw it in a sense of diversity, and thought that there were already some here, that police could be taken from here, and not at all in a philosophy of fighting radicalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u17	As soon as the Moroccan delegation has arrived, we will arrange a briefing for the press in order to put this project in context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u18	Minister, according to the police, the figures for 2014 show an increase in the number of flights in hospitals. There were 3,178 complaints filed, 11 per cent more than in 2013. For physical assaults, the figures are stable: +0.5%. In order to protect themselves, hospitals are equipping themselves with surveillance cameras and employing guarding agents. But it seems that's not enough. These figures tend to show that safety is becoming an important issue in the operation of hospitals. There is a need to ensure the safety of patients, but also of medical personnel, who are often on the front lines of such violence. Can you confirm the figures announced for 2014? Do you know any figures for the first months of 2015? Is the trend still on the rise? These are official figures for official complaints. Do you have any data on the actual situation? Do you know how many hospitals have an in-house guard service? What strategy are you putting in place to address this issue? Have you made any contacts with the Minister of Health or with the sector, in particular with a view to identifying good practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u19	Dear colleague, I have before me the detailed tables showing the monthly figures for 2013 and 2014. In total, there was an increase of almost 12%. I can give you this table because the monthly figures show a huge difference, as we can see, for example, an increase of 50% in March, a decrease of 11% in October. With regard to the figures for the first quarter 2015, after additional checks and disclosure approval, the data will be made available in November 2015. So I'll get them soon and send them to you. In consultation with the Minister of Health, steps have indeed been taken, through the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, to strengthen safety in hospitals. Under this pact, the projects "Safety in hospitals" and "Problematics of detained internees" have made it possible to finance the employment of guarding agents in public and private hospitals since 1 January 2007. These security-enhancing jobs have been granted to hospitals which have agreed to organize an in-house guard service within the meaning of the Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special security, known as the Tobback Act. To date, 86 hospitals have an in-house guard service. At the same time, the strategy implemented so far is to raise awareness and train hospital staff to take appropriate preventive measures, to raise awareness among patients and visitors so that they take into account and participate in these measures, and to raise awareness among local authorities and police areas in order to enable a more effective approach to hospital crime. Before adapting the strategy put in place, it would be appropriate to distinguish in this increased number of reported facts that you identify hospitals with a care unit from those without a care unit, hospitals that have implemented other preventive measures from those that have not put in place special measures, etc. This distinction still needs to be made. It should also be determined whether this increase is related to a real upsurge in the phenomenon or more simply to the fact that staff, patients and visitors are more likely to complain than before. In other words, it is still too early to judge whether the strategy implemented so far needs to be reviewed. This requires further refinement of the analysis. However, taking into account the means available, this will be done taking into account the order of priority of criminal phenomena, determined by the various authorities of the country through the comprehensive security framework note and the national security plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u20	Mr Minister, as you have just pointed out, it is essential to know whether there is "greater attractiveness" of the hospital environment for criminals or whether victims file complaints more easily. Obviously, if one has not identified whether it is one or the other, it is difficult to implement a strategy and actions. Maybe the incentive to have a plan in every hospital... But it is true that this cannot be done in a global way. It is likely that in some hospitals this is due to a real resurgence of criminal phenomena, while in others it is due to the fact that the directorates encourage their staff and patients to file complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u21	Mr President, Minister, the development of juvenile delinquency is an important issue, which involves the responsibility of public authorities at all levels of government. Actions of the police services are identified, in particular in the framework of operational cooperation between the police, the preventive services and the public prosecutor's office. I have already been able to ask you about this. Having recently observed that the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation had carried out a preliminary draft amendment to the decree of 4 March 1991 which provides for a new organisation of procedures for the supervision and punishment of young offenders, it seems to me useful to ask you about this initiative which will inevitably impact the police services, whether federal or local. If, as Community competence provides, this decree must guarantee the prevention and protection of young people, it is certain that compliance with the rules must also be assumed within the framework of the legislative proposal. I asked the Minister of Justice about this and he replied that he was in regular contact with the Minister of the Houses of Justice and Youth Assistance of the French Community. Contrary to some comments read in the press and maintained by the Minister for Youth Aid, it seems that a consultation with the federal government has indeed been initiated, in particular with the Union of Youth Magistrates and the Advocates General. It is therefore important to know whether the police services were also consulted as part of this reform. Mr Minister, has any consultation been carried out by the Youth Aid Services of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation with the Internal SPF and the Federal Police? Have any opinions been sought by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation from the police services specializing in juvenile delinquency, such as the zonal youth sections or other operational youth and family services? In the event that there was no consultation or advice requested, have you asked your services to take any initiative in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u22	Mr Pivin, there has been no consultation between the Youth Aid Services of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Internal FPS, neither with the Federal Police nor with the local police. I am not aware of any requests for advice from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation services to the local police services specializing in juvenile delinquency. My colleague from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, who has Youth Aid in her remit, tells me that Youth Aid does not have to consult with the Home SPF. However, it also tells me that the public prosecutor's offices are coordinated through the Community Council for Youth Assistance, in which they are represented by the Union francophone des Magistrats de la Jeunesse. In view of the shared area of expertise in this area with Justice, I would ask you to address my colleague the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u23	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u24	Mr President, you have already summarised the question. Terror group IS is busy building her caliphate. They're starting a real community there. Of course, they also need women to do that. In England it has already been noted that many more women are moving towards war zone and that they are also recruiting women in a very specific way. Women are also used as an important propaganda tool to convince other women, especially young girls, to join ISIS and travel to Syria or Iraq. My questions are as follows, Minister. How many young women do you know they have left for Syria or Iraq to join IS or any other terrorist organization? How many of them are underage? Do you have any idea how many women travel alone and how many in group?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u25	Based on the list on Syria, which dates from September 4, 55 of the 207 people who travelled from our country to Syria are women. We have no information to suggest that these women might have joined a group other than ISIS. Among those 55 women are 7 underage girls. We do not currently have credible figures on the number of women travelling alone or in group. Most have left in a family context or to travel after their husbands. The few women who have risked their chances on their own, after a long stroll, are housed in safe houses run by other women. They stay there as long as they haven't found a husband and for the time they need to check their records. With this system IS shows to apply a strict Islam, in which women, as it should be, are taken care of and accompanied before marriage. For the record, by the way it should be, I mean according to the philosophy of IS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u26	That's how I understood it. Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I have three or four questions on terrorism and I have not understood, despite our requests, why they were not included in the special session. The person in charge of the secretariat of the Special Committee, whom we have addressed on several occasions on these issues, told us that this has nothing to do with it. So don't think it's hard work on our part, but it was more logical that these issues should be included in the discussion that took place last week. The issue I am going to address, and I come back to very often, is the fight against propaganda. I know that there was this particular project in coordination with the British on the implementation of counter-propaganda. A little more precisely, I would like to ask you about particular points. While radical content is removed from the web, it appears that the meshes of the net are not tight enough to prevent the arrival of new content. Our young people therefore remain confronted daily with extremely radical content. What means of action are being put in place by the government to continue this fight against propaganda? What about the Strategic Bureau at European level? Where are we at at the Strategic Office level? Have the web giants finally been able to meet? I know you've talked about it several times. Recently, you haven't been able to get in touch with Facebook and Google yet. What is the situation now? With regard to the meeting with Twitter, what are the conclusions and can we now see positive results? Finally, you mentioned a willingness to consult with the United States. However, you mentioned in a parliamentary reply a certain reservation from the United States for this consultation. Have you managed to overcome these obstacles? Is a meeting scheduled? If so, when? It is not at all a question of doubting your involvement in this matter, but given its importance, we really hope for concrete progress. I know that one of the 18 measures is one that is particularly relevant to the web.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u28	Mrs Matz, the closure of websites and the removal of extremist content are important components of the fight against extremist propaganda. As you mentioned yourself, it is not possible to scrutinize or remove all the content. Once it's on the internet, you can delete the site, but sometimes it's too late. The competent authorities shall take the necessary steps in this regard. Nevertheless, we must protect our young people more from this kind of negative influence. To this end, not only is the control of online content crucial, but also the strengthening of the resilience of young people facing the extremist message. This is an integral process in which online and offline initiatives must be complementary. A recent study, commissioned by the Home SPF and BELSPO (Belgian Science Policy), clearly demonstrates that the impact of exposure to radical content on young people depends heavily on their propensity to sympathize with extremist content. In other words, the process of radicalisation does not only occur on the web but draws its roots from the off-line lives of young people, from the social environment and the general situation in which the young person is found as a soil. In order to strengthen the resilience of young people against extremist influences, we have developed, with the help of a European grant, training tools for young people, parents and front-line actors, in collaboration with social actors. These tools help to strengthen young people positively and at an early stage to recognize alternatives if they are confronted with extremist messages. The experts from the Regions and Communities have already been trained at the beginning of the year to provide the field players with tools within their field of competence. In addition, these tools are currently being offered through induction training for all officials involved in prevention and radicalisation of cities and municipalities. I assume that all skill levels will contribute to strengthening the resilience of young people against extremist messages. The federal government is proposing concrete tools that have been considered excellent by the European Commission. The Commission is planning, through a subsidy to Belgium, to broadcast throughout Europe. In addition, cities and municipalities were informed and stimulated at coordination meetings to disseminate, in collaboration with social actors, positive communication about our society and to offer alternative messages to young people. Mothers of young parties fighting abroad are, for example, a well-known group. They tell their story to a wide audience. The Austrian network SAVE (Sisters Against Violent Extremism) publishes stories of mothers to offer a counterpoint to extremist propaganda. We are currently examining whether this possibility can be exploited in the Belgian context. Belgium has taken the lead in a European network of experts in strategic communications. The functioning of this network is fluid and the contribution of the different Member States helps us to exchange ideas and good practices. As you learned in the press, a number of countries, like France, are busy expanding their communications. In the future, we also intend to intensify our strategic communications system. Our European strategic communications project has already supported the development of a number of concepts, but for the time being no initiative can be communicated. The development of a national strategic communications framework is under way. In order to ensure a safe, efficient and sustainable operation, the structure must be constructed with caution and in consultation with all relevant partners. In addition, efficient planning and anchoring are necessary to ensure optimal operation. On the other hand, I can tell you that last Friday we participated in the Internet Forum lunch with the European Commissioner for Home Affairs. There was a meeting between the 28 Interior Ministers and the three major Internet companies (Twitter, Facebook and Google). The latter are willing to delete all pages containing hate messages. But Europol has also brought to our knowledge the incredible number of pages recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u29	How does this happen in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u30	The police are in contact with Europol and Europol is involved with the actors, as far as the European level is concerned. At Belgian level, they are only business and marketing companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u31	If Belgian services find illegal content, do they have to go through Europol?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u32	Yes, but it's immediate. No time is lost. It's planned. This is centralized, because the website we detect may also be detected in the Netherlands or France, and if everyone contacts these companies, they cannot manage. We need a single point of contact to get in touch with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u33	The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had also explained to me that it expressly left certain content on-line to go back to channels or to carry out investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u34	This is sometimes part of their investigations. This is also why Europol is well placed, with the police – because they understand the language – to make the link between police services and Internet companies at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u35	In this regard, you remember my proposed law on the removal of illegal content in order to formalize a procedure, in the event that our supplier, Belgacom, the first level...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u36	There is the provider and there are those who manage the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u37	There must be a gradation, with supporting fines, in the event that Twitter or Facebook are not executed, so that we can have a lever. There seems to be a deal. The co-ordinator for the fight against terrorism at European level, Mr. De Kerchove told us that when there is a formalised procedure, we get about 90% voluntary withdrawal of content, while the reporting of content by an individual has no effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u38	Minister, I assume that these bills have been settled since then. Otherwise, will they be made possible by the additional EUR 400 million that you have decided to release?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u39	Mrs. Matz, I can give you a statement of the invoices. From 17 January to the end of August, the bill amounts to EUR 8 million. You can do the extrapolation for the other months. Invoices are paid until August. The rumours in the press about unpaid invoices concerned invoices from January to August and these invoices were paid on 26 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u41	That's one of the 200 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u42	The law on various provisions was recently adopted. Article 15 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 is part of this. This means that in the future, an RB will provide a solution to the current problem of billing the fastest adequate aid. For some areas of aid, this creates financial uncertainties in particular. It is particularly unclear what amount one zone may bill to another zone for the services provided. With a KB, that situation could change. In what way do you wish to fill in the billing in this KB? Are you considering aligning the billing amounts with the amounts already set for civil protection in Annex 1 of the Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 establishing the mission of the emergency services that can be hid and those that are free of charge? What timing do you have in mind? The first invoices are coming in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u43	Article 6 of the Law of 15 May 2007 provides that zones may invoice the costs of the interventions they carry out in the framework of the fastest adequate assistance in the territory of another zone. To this end, an agreement on the financial arrangements must be concluded. In the absence of a financial agreement, the person who carried out the intervention may invoice the costs of the intervention in the other zone. The fact that a zone which intervenes in the territory of another zone is allowed to invoice intervention unilaterally to the latter is liable to give rise to abuse in the invoicing method of that intervention. In order to avoid this and to ensure some uniformity, the law was refined by having the conditions of that billing determined at KB. The law on various provisions has indeed been adopted. The KB is in the final phase and will be completed in the near future so that the period of uncertainty is completed within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u44	This year's almost over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u45	Once a KB is finished, it will have to go through a whole procedure and be presented, inter alia, to the Inspector of Finance and the Council of State. I don't think that can be completed in 14 days. We will do everything in our power to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u46	Mr Minister, my question is about football and, in particular, about football security, as well as about alcohol and drug policy in football stadiums. Minister, in preparation for changes to the football law, I have had a lot of contact with police forces in recent months as part of the supervision of the football law. A number of police officers, Commissioners, inspectors and captains have pointed out the increase in drug use among a number of risk supporters. In the context of tobacco drug use, a number of stadiums have already been declared non-smoking. With a brand name like Jupiler Pro League, the alcohol policy will not be such that the football stadiums will immediately work alcohol-free. However, my main concern is the increasing number of drug users in the hard core. The Dutch criminologist Henk Ferwerda has indicated that mainly cocaine and speed would be catalysts for today's hooligans. In my preparation I gave you the link to the relevant internet page. In spring 2014, four supporters of KV Mechelen were allowed to appear in court. They used drugs at the football stadium. Certainly one of them was specifically caught using cocaine in the stadium's toilet. Not only KV Mechelen has that problem. Also AA Gent and KV Kortrijk have to me and have also admitted that in 2013 drugs were used in the stands or in the stadium. KV Kortrijk has therefore set up a clear antidrug programme or a clear drug prevention campaign, OKIDO. OKIDO means: On KV Kortrijk Drug use is Inappropriate. The club has incorporated that campaign into its community action. At the end of October 2014, the Pro League and the football cell announced how they intend to investigate this and how they intend to combat drug abuse by football supporters in order to assess its impact and better prevent them in the future. I have heard very clearly from people from both Club Bruges and Anderlecht that also in those clubs speed and cocaine, i.e. the inciting or stimulating drugs, know an advance, albeit not in the stadium, but rather before the game outside the stadium. In Walloon clubs it would be more about soft drugs, such as cannabis. However, Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which is, moreover, identical for each first-class club, states that access to the stadium is prohibited or is refused to persons who appear to be under the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other exciting means. I would like to ask a number of questions about the problem. Firstly, Minister, are you aware of the increase in drug use on supporters' buses as well as in and around football stadiums of first- and perhaps second-class clubs? I'm involved in a second-class club myself. So I'm interested in the case. Secondly, are there any figures per club of the number of people arrested for possession of drugs or being under the influence of drugs? Thirdly, what is the state of play of the investigation on drug use in football supporters announced by the Pro League together with the football cell in 2014? Fourthly, what amounts has the FPS Home Affairs released in recent years to support campaigns such as the campaign of KV Kortrijk, AA Gent and KV Mechelen? Fifthly, what additional policy measures do you want to take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u47	First of all, I would like to stress that the football cell has no power whatsoever to prosecute anyone inside or outside the stadium about drug and alcohol use. This does not fall within the competence of the football cell on the basis of the football law. Of course, the partners acting to ensure safety at football matches are aware that there is sometimes a problem of drug and alcohol consumption in and around the stadiums. A study day was therefore already organised in October 2014. However, no figures are available, either in general or per club, to link football with alcohol or drug use. So I cannot confirm on the basis of figures whether or not there would be an increase in problematic use. The Pro League organised a theme day on drugs in collaboration with the football cell in October 2014. This day of study was a great success: several associations and police services can also rely on the good practice projects of Racing Mechelen and KV Kortrijk. As far as the research mentioned is concerned, there is currently no provision for funding. The Home Office has not released any specific amounts for drug-related projects. In recent years, the FPS Interior has made available EUR 100 000 in the form of a grant to support social projects within first class football clubs, together with the Football Foundation. The clubs you're referring to had submitted a drug-related project. An overall amount of EUR 100 000 is foreseen, for which clubs can propose projects that are socially relevant. Drug and alcohol consumption is included. Three clubs have made use of it. In 2014, AA Gent received a grant for the project "Keep the stage clean', which revolved around drug use in the stadium. In 2013, KV Mechelen received a grant for the project "Clean', an information campaign for supporters and school-based youth on safety, including alcohol and drug use. KV Kortrijk received a grant in 2014 for the project "OKIDO" that you mentioned, with the aim that supporters in a drug-free environment should be able to encourage their favourite team. I hope to be able to add SK Roeselare to this list next year, but that does not depend on me. Your last question. It is underlined that drug and alcohol consumption is a general social problem. After all, the football environment reflects our society. In order to make significant progress in terms of drug and alcohol consumption, a more global approach is needed and an approach to the wider problem is needed. There are currently no specific policies planned for drug use in the football stadium. However, the updating of drug policy is foreseen in the context of the draft framework note on Integral Security. This process runs in the general drug policy cell and takes place under the direction of the Minister of Health. It will be completed one of the following weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u48	Minister, if there are no figures, it is difficult to find a clear general trend. All I hear and see is that a lot of policemen themselves say that drug use is increasing. That is certainly the case for cocaine, ecstasy and speed. It is in itself a good thing that prevention is linked to that community action. These are currently three clubs, which of course have had to deal with them. Apparently, the clubs with more supporters aren't there. I just want to say that SK Roeselare hasn't existed since 1999. Since the merger, we've become SV Roeselare. I just hope that drug use can stay at my club as it is now, which is very limited. This also has to do with the very limited number of second class spectators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 6959 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 6971 question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u50	Mr Minister, after analysing the answer of the OCAD, the federal police and the Crisis Centre, some questions remained unanswered. You stated in the Joint Committee on Home Affairs and Finance on 2 October last that there is no problem with the public appearing of different documents. Firstly, it is completely unclear on the basis of which information the OCAD, the federal police and the Crisis Centre carried out their analysis. Was the analysis made on the basis of all the information someone could have pulled from the online website to select targets? Was there only ground plans on the USB stick or was the entire content of the website on the USB stick? Have the OCAD and the others also investigated the risks associated with the information on weapons, surveillance, surveillance cameras and networks? Do the OCAD and the others also have an overview of the number of times the different documents were downloaded? Do they know by whom or by what agencies? The opinion asks a working group to classify the information before it is placed online. When is this working group due? Has it already been put together? One last question. You said there was no problem. Wat wordt dan bedoeld met de volgende zinnen uit de analyse, in het Frans: "However, given the presence of sites such as prisons, courthouses, federal police infrastructure, etc., we believe that the concentration of information in all its forms at a single place of access may constitute a more targeted risk. In fact, this could facilitate the research work of an ill-intentioned person." In view of these comments, instructions were given to the police zones. If so, what exactly are the precautions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Top. The OCAD has based its analysis on the information reported by the services of the Regie der Bouwken (Registration of Buildings) the USB stick in question and also made available on the information by the federal police during the meeting with the Crisis Centre on 25 September. So the information on the USB stick of the Buildings Regie is validated by the federal police to see if that was the complete information. The OCAD has made the assessment of a possible threat arising from the available plans on the site of the Buildings Regie and all available information related to them. The OCAD assessed the situation on 25 September as not raising the threat, not the average level at that time at 2 and not the buildings currently at threat level 3. It was not technically possible to get a look at how many documents were downloaded and by whom. Since 1 October, the working group has been active and immediate action has been taken. I distributed the measures during the Committee on the Buildings Management on 20 October. Your question 5, as far as those few sentences are concerned, these are some facts on which the threat was assessed. After analysis, the report concluded that no increased threat had arisen. I can tell you that the necessary measures have been taken. It is, of course, not wise to make known measures covered by the confidential treatment. If security measures are made known, terrorism is likely to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u52	As a reply to your answer to my last question, I can understand that, of course, and I understand that you have mentioned that a number of instructions have indeed been given to improve security effectively. I am therefore pleased that action has been taken on the issues raised in previous questions and comments. I am interested in what the outcome of this working group will be in the future. You mentioned that there has already been an answer in the Committee on the Control of Buildings. I am interested to learn in the future what the next steps are to effectively secure and use this information even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u53	Minister, recently, Belgium has been holding border controls to tackle smugglers and control refugee flows. A hundred agents would be deployed at stations, invader roads, and at national borders to be able to control properly. On the border with Germany and the Netherlands, eight agents are working and only during office hours. There's no check-up on the weekends. Those eight cops are checking a 200-mile border. The checks shall take place between specific hours. Four border crossings are monitored: the E314 border crossing and the E25 border crossing with the Netherlands and the E40 and the E42 crossing with Germany. The question is a bit dated. Your spokesperson said that the checks were being evaluated and adjusted as necessary at the beginning of October. That will probably be demonstrated by your answers. There would also be checks at the stations, at the airports and at large motorway parks throughout the country. Eight agents are deployed on the eastern border. Are there any cops deployed at the other border areas, and how many are there? How many places does that happen? Does the check go according to the same hours? In which other places, for example in stations, parking facilities and airports, are checks carried out? Happens that also according to a specific time schedule? What budgetary impact does the deployment of those hundred extra agents have? Is it intended to extend and/or adapt the hours on which checks are carried out in the short term? If yes, from when and how many hours a day? The evaluation will have already been carried out. Is that report available to Parliament? What has been demonstrated by the evaluation and what measures have been taken to adjust it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u54	Mr Top, your question is indeed somewhat dated, but there is nothing you can do about it. I'm still trying to give meaningful answers. The information that only eight agents were deployed at the eastern border is wrong. It's not because it's in the press and someone wants to get rid of their frustrations that it's also the reality. It is not just a question of border controls. In fact, it is not a question of border controls, but rather of targeted actions aimed at detecting asylum seekers who have not yet found their way to the Aliens' Office and smugglers. These actions can be located in the border area and on the major traffic axes. They wanted to put border controls in my mouth. I understand what customs used to do in a border post, as France is doing now. We don't. We are doing targeted actions, mainly in the border area, but also in the major traffic axes. On 18 September I had given the order to start such police checks in the provinces of Liège and Limburg. The checks take place at varying times, not only during office hours, that is also wrong information. They take place in proportion to 5 actions per week, of which 1 in the order size of 45 staff and 4 in the order size of 20 staff. It doesn't happen at fixed times and changes from week to week. There is also continuous evaluation of the time zones in which the best or worst results are achieved, depending on the position taken. Experience is taken into account. One has to start the action somewhere, with a hypothesis that is questioned and adjusted all the time. When I talk about order sizes of 45 and 20 staff, they may occur at one time in a joint operative, or at the same time in different and changing places. All possible variations in it happen. The shipping police provided support with CO2 meters, among other things. This does not have to do specifically with it, but those controls were used to measure CO2. Your second question. The checks in the provinces of Liège and Limburg were completed from the start with patrols on trains from Germany and the Netherlands and gate controls at the airport for flights from transmigration sensitive countries. For this purpose, daily changing capacity of the railway and air police was released, supplemented by staff from the intervention corps of provinces other than Liège and Limburg. For those actions in Liège and Limburg people from other corps were also brought there. Here, too, the controls did not follow the Nine-to-Five principle, but were information-driven on risk flights and trains. This is really a sandwich story, as they say so beautifully in the Netherlands. Your third question on the budgetary impact. In principle, there is no such thing, given the reorientation. There are interventions in these areas and now, given the problem, we have specifically focused our interventions on them. It was a reorientation of existing tasks. However, in view of the time-consuming procedure for dealing with foreign nationals, an increase in the inconvenient is not excluded. These are overtime and additional services. A prognosis or calculation is not yet possible, as the results are not yet fully listed. This also has to do with the proportions of the phenomenon of transmigration. On the other hand, smugglers and transmigrants move their routes very quickly when they are aware that systematic checks are being carried out. In reply to your fourth question, I note that every check, including the smaller one, is useful. They all have a deterrent effect. The exact number of control hours per day is dynamic. All capacity of the intervention corps not planned for the management of demonstrations, prison strikes, football matches, euro-tops and visits of foreign heads of state will be used for police checks on the transmigration phenomenon. A number of things, such as Eurotops, must therefore be made compulsory. The capacity is first viewed and goes to such events. The remaining capacity will be used to address the transmigration phenomena. In your fifth question, you asked for an evaluation. As I mentioned earlier, the evaluation is of a permanent nature. We did not let them do anything for four weeks, then sit around the table. If, for example, we find that at a certain point in time in one region there is a severe control effect, whereas at another time this is not the case, we will adjust it. It is therefore a permanent evaluation mechanism. For example, it was recently decided to focus the controls not only on the eastern provinces but on the entire Belgian territory. The provinces were grouped under four axes for efficiency reasons. The axis of the East Border region, which is the provinces of Liège and Limburg and the airports of Gosselies, Bierset and Brussels-National, forms one axis. The second axis is the Inland axis, which is the provinces of Flemish and Walloon Brabant, Antwerp and the Brussels Capital Region. The third axis is the South Region, which is the provinces of Namur and Luxembourg. The fourth axis is the West axis, which is the provinces of Hainaut, West and East Flanders. In addition, the accelerated decision-making procedure of DVZ in the event of foreign nationals being found in police checks was cleared and communicated to the executing units. The question was, after all, what should be done with someone who was caught. An accelerated decision-making procedure has been introduced as a solution. Depending on the case, a person concerned either goes to DVZ or is requested to leave the territory. I can also say that, as far as I am concerned, the action was also aimed at smugglers. I don't have the numbers for the last 14 days or three weeks. I've had other cases on my mind for the past three weeks. Until then, however, a dozen human smugglers had already been arrested. So that's 12 top criminals less walking around, allow me the little pun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer, because you have answered more than my specific questions. You have also explained the state of play today. According to a newspaper article this morning, if we can believe it, it turns out that illegals were found trapped in a tanker. Control, in any way, is therefore more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u56	Mr Top, the most poignant story I've heard so far is from someone who called from a refrigerator that he was dying. Of course, he couldn't sit down, because he was in the dark. He was freezing to death, but he was able to call, which allowed the police to trace him from the cell tower, and he could still be saved. That's a good result, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u57	Mr Top, I give you the floor for your question. 6836 on the hacking of the Home Office website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u58	Mr President, I would like to turn that question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u59	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday 13 October, police officers invaded the daycare center of Baby in Wonderland during a check on undeclared work. This control was described as an aggressive raid with a lot of force from the agents. The department of social inspection, which carries out the checks on undeclared work, is accompanied by the police at his request. The policemen invaded after a mommy came to pick up her toddler. Even before the caregivers were present well and well aware of what was happening, there were armed agents among the fourteen children who were present at the time in the play area. Another officer guarded the terrace and the street side was also watched by the police. The carers were, according to the witnesses present, isolated from the fourteen children present. In the end, it turned out to be a simple control of the social inspection service. Only one comment was made on the staff schedule. For the rest, no explanation was provided and the inspectors, together with the police, disappeared. It was not the first time that there was control in this daycare, but it was the first time that several armed agents were present and that the caregivers were isolated. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Did the social inspection department ask the Antwerp police for guidance on this checkup? On what criteria was this question considered to be well founded? For what reason did the police consider it necessary to invade with multiple armed police officers and to guard the exits armed? How many cops were there? Finally, are you of the opinion that such aggressive attacks are not appropriate in a daycare centre where 14 children are present, especially when there is apparently no clear reason for the raid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u60	Mr President, Mr Top, on the one hand I would like to point out that this is a local matter which was discussed in detail in the City of Antwerp Security Committee on 19 October. I understand that the Antwerp police have given the necessary clarifications there. On the other hand, such police actions are carried out under the authority of the employment officer. Since this is a legal action and I am not competent to do so, I can only provide general context information. I am absolutely not avoiding this question and will provide as much information as possible, but a number of elements fall within the competence of the local police and of the judiciary. As far as your first question is concerned, the district police keep checking different cases at regular intervals, together with the social inspection service and the Foreign Office. This control is mainly aimed at illegality and infringements of employment. In other words, the joint action in this file originated in this permanent cooperation and was not specifically drawn up against the daycare centre itself. There is therefore an approach whereby the police and the Social Inspectorate jointly inspect. Several cases were checked that day, so not just that daycare center. Structural cooperation between police and social inspection services is a win-win situation. This is useful for the police because the social inspection service has additional legal means to deal with certain crimes. This can also be useful to tackle more effectively and more quickly nuisance-causing institutions. That's something I used to do when I was mayor. If one was affected by a particular case and there was no immediate reason to act policely, one would find something using all the inspections to reduce that burden, to put it this way. Since the teams of the inspection services are quite small, it is useful for them that the police are present to avoid fleeing suspects, to ensure their safety and, if necessary, to establish illegality. Both approaches therefore reinforce each other in this. As far as your second question is concerned, the audit was carried out by four persons. An inspector of the Social Inspectorate and an inspector of the Social Law Supervision Department were the first to enter the case together with an unarmed agent and a police inspector, who is armed. The door was open and it was immediately announced that it was an inspection and that they would enter the case. During the check, the service vehicle type combi with another inspector and an intern was posted outside. They entered the case at some point to provide a mobile office terminal for identity checks. My fellow Members immediately went out of sight of the children standing in the back room. So they were in there to deliver a device, but they were at once removed from the stage. Only the unarmed police officer has remained with the inspectors of the Social Inspectorate and the Labour Inspectorate. Two other inspectors and the intern went out after the identity check and waited for the fellow officers at the door. As part of their training, a dozen trainees participated in the global project. They were divided over the matters to be checked. In view of the location, the police did not consider it appropriate to enter the nursery with many trainees. So there was only one intern present who was in there for a while and then came back out. As far as arms are concerned, these colleagues were equipped with their basic equipment, in other words a police uniform with bulletproof vest in yellow fluo and the belt. As has been said, there are different cases involved in such checks. In practice, no distinction is made between those against whom control is directed. In addition, cooperation with the neighbourhood is taking place and it is important that the people of the neighbourhood are present in the street as visible as possible. The control of crèche is not in itself separate from other checks carried out that day. That's why there was no change between uniform and civilian clothing. It was just a process of controlling many things. Control was carried out without any problem or development of power. Both the police and both inspection services have remained polite and calm, despite the immediate blame they were given. The manager and employee also had time to take care of the children. As for your third question, the control itself in the daycare center was done by four people. The others were outside and went in just for the identity check. The local police of Antwerp is aware that the presence of police officers in such an environment makes a strong impression on the children, the parents and the guardians of child care. However, as described above, the audit fits in with a series of investigations carried out on the same day. At no time has there been a raid or a build-up of power. On the contrary, it was deliberately chosen to keep the armed colleague out of sight of the children as much as possible and not to employ all trainees. Basically, the real check-up at the daycare center was done by two social inspection inspectors and one unarmed police officer. There have been three other policemen inside, albeit for a very short time, to provide the device for identity checks. Upon entering, there was a fully-fledged inspector with a weapon belt. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u61	Minister, your remark that cooperation is sometimes useful raised my suspicion that it is indeed sometimes useful for us in local circumstances to take action together with other inspection and security services. Such interventions by uniform and possibly armed police continue to impress minors, in this case with these children. It remains a balancing exercise not to make such interventions an overwhelming experience. Therefore, the next suggestion. At local level, we can try to organise things with attention to such situations. To what extent is it possible that attention should be paid to avoiding, or keeping out of the picture, arms and the wearing of all the equipment when carrying such examinations in nurseries or minors? This is what I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 6971 question is converted into a written question. Mr Gilkinet is currently on a different committee and will come later. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 7018 is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u63	Minister, it has been a while since I submitted this question. However, I would like to ask about a state of affairs. At some point, the governor of West Flanders, Carl Decaluwé, raised the alarm. He said that extra manpower had been promised for places where larger asylum centres would be. In addition, we got the Flinterstar extra on top. This also required additional manpower, which calls for additional efforts by the police forces. As has already been mentioned, we were faced with the problem of the presence of smugglers in the region around the E40. I would like to ask you a few specific questions today. Did the police zones get the extra police support they promised? What's the status of the extra manpower? Do you also see the possibility of using the shipping police to help ensure safety in the emergency shelters located on the coast but possibly also in other provinces? Do you see other possibilities to provide additional support to police forces from municipalities where there is or is on the way to an emergency shelter? The question I had put about the distribution plan has already been answered, so I'm dropping it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u64	Mr Demon, your question dates back a while ago when the refugee crisis, I will not say, was in its infancy but was not as advanced as it was today. In the beginning, we had to make sure that those people were given shelter. This problem is certainly still under discussion. After that, both Secretary of State Francken and I systematically visited the local authorities where the problem arose and where the alarm was triggered in the context of security, sometimes on the basis of facts, sometimes on the basis of hypotheses as to what might occur. In any case, in consultation of course with the federal police, we have been able to commit reinforcement, depending on the local needs and the questions, and this mostly on a structural basis. It is true that a number of large reception centres are located in small police areas. There the local police were unable to patrol enough at night. That's where we come in with the federal police support services to deploy additional shifts at night on the premises. All these questions have been inventoried and they have already been answered. Sometimes the actions were framed in the targeted controls, in search of smugglers. This was the case in Koksijde, for example. It was about intensive control in the border area. During this audit, attention was also paid to the reception centres of Koksijde and Lombardsijde. All additional questions, including the demand for an additional night shift in Leopoldsburg, were therefore met. In accordance with the mechanisms set out in letter GPI 44b, the police areas concerned, in whose territory there are reception centres, may call on the intervention corps of the federal police to assist the local police and the devolved services of the federal police in the fight against temporary phenomena. That is the letter to which we refer. The federal police need to come in support when there's a local emergency. Such an application for support shall be addressed to the respective responsible DirCos of the Federal Police. This does not, therefore, reach the highest level of federal police. The decentralised units of the federal police are addressing this question. The aid shall be granted taking into account the available capacity and the necessary commitment. I have also instructed the CIKS to remove all non-priority missions for the benefit of the actions under Medusa, the border-based control and support to the local police or the extra patrols. Non-priority tasks are disposed of for the benefit of support to local authorities. Ensuring safety in emergency shelters is not a task of specialised support within the competence of the shipping police. Moreover, the designated emergency shelters on the coast are outside the geographical area of competence of the shipping police. The maritime police on the coast is currently a priority task in the fight against illegal migration. It must use up its capacity to do so. In addition to this specific mission, the shipping police are still responsible for the police management of the Flinterstar disaster. This, too, is a key priority task for the shipping police. In addition to her regular assignments, she also provides specialised support to other services or corps of the local and federal police. This is the case, for example, in the search for persons in illegal residence on motorways or in the search for drownings, by using the technical support team of the shipping police. In addition, the maritime police Coast is currently in deficit, which means that an additional mission for the security of the coastal emergency shelters would hypothesize its normal functioning within its area of competence. For the additional capacity that the local zones require, I do not call on the shipping police, but on the CIK and the devolved units.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u65	Minister, I understand from your reply that all the manpower that was promised federally to the zones is at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u66	Minister, I asked you at the beginning of 2015 about police training in order to know the planned dates. According to my information, basic training is organised up to three times a year in one or more police schools. However, for 2015, only two training courses were scheduled: in October and December. That's what you said at the beginning of the year. The time frame for the winners varies according to the timing of the selection of the chosen school and the need for winners in the various schools. The problem is that this delay is sometimes quite long. Minister, can you confirm that there were two training courses in 2015, in October and December? Where did they take place? Can you explain why the first training was only scheduled for October? Do you already know how many trainings will be planned in 2016? Can you explain why police areas are not taking the initiative to organize training in one of the schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u67	Dear colleague, I can confirm that there were two training courses in 2015, in October and December. The quota reached is about 800 inspectors. The police schools that organized the trainings in October were those in Brussels, Jurbise, Liège, Namur, Antwerp, Asse, Brugge, Genk and Ghent, for 600 aspirants. The remaining 200 aspiring candidates were trained in December. Currently, two ministerial circulars dated 12 May 2015 are in effect on monitoring and the risk of overexpenditures in staff. The purpose of this monitoring is, in particular, to assess the risks of over-expenditure of appropriations. The monitoring measures included in this circular are also applicable to federal police personnel credits. This budgetary monitoring is never an easy exercise. We must honour our commitments to Europe, both by devoting our resources to the European policy of reviving resources, and by devoting resources to our security, justice, police and intelligence services. I repeat: this is not a simple mission. On the basis of the principles set out in these two circulars, I was able to set, with a favourable opinion from the Financial Inspectorate and the Federal Police, recruitment targets for the federal police as part of the basic training and, for the benefit of the integrated police. This has already allowed me to organize the first incorporation in October. I must also tell you that, for example, in the Antwerp police school, the Antwerp police have organised on their budget training outside the programmes planned for October and December. Some areas can also organize arrangements with schools to discuss whether additional training can be placed in their agendas. With regard to your third question, in 2016, the situation is expected to be similar to that of 2015. Budgetary monitoring will have to be maintained, but 400 million have been released for security reasons. I can imagine that we can recruit more and, therefore, add training. But all this has yet to be decided. With regard to your fourth question, the quota referred to in question 1 corresponds, in principle, to the needs expressed by both federal police entities and local police forces. In addition, different entities may use other mechanisms to meet a specific need. For example, the local police in Antwerp hired 44 aspirants to carry out own funds police inspections and submitted a new application for aspiring officers for the month of December. It is up to each local authority to assess its needs and decide whether or not to make a specific commitment based on the budgets at its disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u68	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I understand that two training courses were held in 2015 and that a recruitment was made. You are telling me that autonomy of the different areas is possible and I welcome it. But it may be easier for larger areas to give some autonomy and engage. My area consists of seven small communes and it is much more difficult to allow a commitment. I welcome the position you have taken, and that commitments will be possible in 2016. This will be an opportunity for me to come back with a question in February or March to see how it will be done. Thank you for the direction you're taking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, on Tuesday, 20 October, the President of the Dinaphi relief zone, Mr Bellot, announced to his twenty-one fellow mayors of the Dinant-Philippeville district that he was leaving the presidency of the relief zone. In the letter announcing this resignation, the President states his grievances against his fellow mayors who would not have fulfilled certain commitments made before the actual establishment of the zone. These commitments included the freezing of promotions and investments. In watermark of this letter appears the president's agitation about sub-localist attitudes and resistance to change that hinder an optimal and serene evolution of the area. Another element is, of course, the lack of federal funding compared to relief missions in rural areas. Through my speech, I would like to encourage you to take an initiative to enable the Dinaphi area to emerge from the crisis it is currently facing, even though in the meantime a new president has been appointed, the mayor of the commune of Havelange. On the other hand, the cost of this reform is high for the municipalities, especially for the rural communes. However, it is known that in the long term, the federal government is expected to contribute 50 per cent to the financing of the areas. I would like to give you an opportunity to explain how and in what timing the government intends to honour this commitment. Minister, have you been warned of the current crisis in the Dinaphi area? What's your diagnosis? What initiatives have you taken to help find a solution? More generally, how do you intend to honour the commitment made when the reform was adopted with regard to joint (federal) funding of relief areas? How long? I am aware that this last question is much more general than the first two.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u70	Mr Gilkinet, I met with Mr Bellot last June to discuss the difficulties encountered in setting up the Dinaphi emergency zone. He told me about the lack of personnel, including volunteer firefighters in his area, and the significant efforts that the area had to make to address past abuses. My services also visited the Dinaphi relief area during the summer to accompany the Dinaphi relief zone in its training process and to try to find solutions to certain problems of which they were aware. The consolidation of communal fire services within a single entity implies a profound change in habits and can therefore give rise to tensions which can only be overcome with the will of all the actors concerned. It seems that in the Dinaphi relief zone there is still some resistance to the reform of the relief services, which I regret. Indeed, one can have some resistance against a decision, but one must move forward; there is no other choice. If the authorities in the area want to get out of this crisis, my services are of course at their disposal to try to find a solution. But under no circumstances can the solution be imposed. The cooperation of the authorities in the area is the sine qua non for resolving this crisis. I am not the architect of this reform, I am only the entrepreneur. The idea is to have an organisation with management based on the communes but the areas are the employers of all volunteers and all professionals. The areas must also assume their responsibilities as employers, i.e. apply labour legislation in all its forms. This is one of the responsibilities that the zones, the college and the zone council must take. With respect to the cost of reform, I confirm that the government is honouring its commitments. The costs resulting from the reform are borne by the federal government through federal allocations. On two occasions, I have managed to preserve the endowments of any measure of economy. I thus maintain the budgetary path marked by my predecessor. In 2016, some EUR 30 million will be added to the allocations. We will not reach the 50% to 50% balance. A 2007 law sets out a budgetary framework that does not provide an opportunity to validate this. But the route decided by Mrs Milquet is the only budget item on which no savings are made. Every year, I have to fight for it. But it is clear that the federal budget or the fire zone must not justify any economy. In the direction of global economies, I respect the commitments made and promised by my predecessor. If I were in the opposition, I would also plead for a 50/50 distribution, but I want to be honest and say things as they are. Some municipalities do see an increase in their expenditure on fire services, but this is due to the fact that other municipalities in the same area are seeing a decrease in their contribution to fire services. Article 67 does not provide for a status quo for all municipalities. The aim is to take account of all the contributions made by the municipalities of an area. My priority is to monitor the establishment of the relief zones and their evolution. This monitoring is done through the Committee on Support for Civil Security Reform, which meets monthly. This committee chaired by my cabinet is composed of all the actors involved in the reform, namely the services of the Internal FPS, the representatives of the Minister of Public Health and Budget, a governor of each linguistic role, the unions of Flemish and Walloon cities and municipalities, civil protection and fire brigades; are invited as observers: the Regions, and as experts: the associations of French- and Dutch-speaking volunteer firefighters and the associations of commanders of Flemish and Walloon areas. I have given our inspection services a mission, for the time being, for next year and perhaps also for 2017, to help the areas and coach them. This is not an inspection in the proper sense to say that they are wrong and that we are going to punish them. No, they are there to support the areas and promote the exchange of good practices, to exchange what they have seen in another area and which may be applicable elsewhere. That's the idea I'm trying to share with the services involved: we're all in the same boat. This reform must be put in place, and we must help each other. I am also preparing a Royal Reparation Order, based on the experiences we have made this year and on all the comments that have been made. An assessment will be made and a Royal Reparation Order will be drafted to improve the situation on the ground. We are continuing this work; at some point it will be implemented in an acceptable manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u71	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I have allowed myself to put this case of an emergency zone on my Namibian provincial territory, but I think it is symptomatic. It is in this sense that you have answered me. It is symptomatic of the difficulty of implementing reform, of resistance to change, of difficulties in terms of means. As much as I am concerned that a specific accompaniment is planned – and you told me that it was, both through this visit this summer and through this coaching logic – at the same time, it is necessary to pay more attention to giving the local authorities sufficient resources. You're applying Mrs. Milquet's budget path. I was critical of this trajectory and I remain critical of the federal failure to meet its commitments. You continue to fight for sufficient means and in any case, so that they are not diminished. I can only encourage you to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u72	We come to question No. 7033 by Mrs. Fonck. She is not present and has not asked to turn her question into a written question. She didn't ask for any delay either. I shall consider her question withdrawn in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 7083 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 7192 was converted into a written question. We come to the combined questions Nos 7222, 7231 and 7601 by Mr Nollet, Mr Thiébaut and Mr Nollet on the fire and explosion in Objective 1 on 31 October 2015. None of the authors is present. Nor have they apologized, nor have they asked for questions to be converted into written questions. These questions are considered to be withdrawn in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. We come to the question No. 7223 by Mr Dispa. Mr Dispa is not here either. I also apply Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure and consider this question withdrawn. Questions Nos 7247, 7248 and 7249 by Mr Nollet have been postponed. Mr Vanden Burre is not present for his question No. Seven hundred and fifty. He did not apologize or ask to turn the question into a written question. Again, Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure is applied. The question is withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 7266 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 7342 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen's 7310 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u73	Mr. Secretary, in an intervention in a juvenile institution, the Rapid Response Team of the Antwerp police shot a 14-year-old girl with a plastic bullet. The girl stayed in a youth institution in Antwerp and was very upset. At that time, she threatened to injure herself with shards of glass. The Rapid Response Team came to the scene and hit the girl with a plastic bullet, similar to a paintball bullet. The Antwerp police responded as follows: "There was a need for drastic action to prevent worse." The action was a choice that was not obvious, but thoughtful and correct. The Youth Welfare Agency reacts shockedly and asks for a meeting with the Antwerp Chief of Staff to see what exactly happened. Do you think it is justified and acceptable for children to be shot at with such weapons, regardless of the situation? Is there a consultation between the Youth Welfare Agency and the Antwerp police? Does the Rapid Response Team have a clear and defined job description?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u74	Mr Top, I have already replied to your first question in plenary on 12 November. So that's settled. As regards the consultation between the Youth Welfare Agency and the Antwerp police, this took place at different times. On 4 December a constructive consultation took place between the Antwerp police and the Youth Welfare Agency. The initiative was originally taken by the leadership of the arrest units with a view to a debriefing. On Monday 9 November 2015, an e-mail was sent by the Agency for Youth Welfare Flanders in the region of Antwerp, as well as the Reception, Orientation and Observation Centre Elegast, to the Chief of Staff for consultation. This was dealt with immediately and this took place last week, on 4 December. Your third question concerning a clear and defined job description of the Rapid Response Team. The list is not exhaustive. The Rapid Response Team occurs in the following situations, among others. First of all... The SRT teams provide support to police personnel on the ground for tasks where physical integrity may be compromised and/or to which a particular risk is attached: search for houses, arrest of physically dangerous persons, control of vehicles whose occupants pose a potential danger. Secondly, they carry out operations of an offensive nature, whether or not awaiting the arrival of the special assistance team, for example in the context of amok, a reinforced search, the search of a building, the arrest of persons on foot or with a vehicle. Thirdly, they shall take preparatory measures pending the arrival of the special assistance team. Fourthly, they are involved in determining facts in the act, especially property and personal offences, whether by force or not, offences such as forbidden weapons, etc. They assist the regular teams PROA in the execution of their judicial orders and assist in monitoring problem neighborhoods and hotspots. They carry out targeted checks on public roads and on public places of persons and/or vehicles, in the context of criminal phenomena, whether temporary or not. They are also responsible for pursuits. That's the non-limitative job description. One should actually see the Rapid Response Team as a unit between the ordinary intervention teams and the special assistance teams. If there is a suspicion of violence, then the intervention team is not equipped enough to do so. The Rapid Response Teams are also continuously on site and are very quickly at the scene, which is not the case for the special assistance team. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u75	Minister, I am naturally pleased that regular consultations have already been held with the Youth Welfare Agency and that a debriefing has taken place in the meantime to evaluate the incident. However, as with my previous question, I would like to point out that, at least in the case of minors, there is a great deal of concern about taking the appropriate coercive measures. Care must be taken to minimise the use of force in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u76	I would like to make a correction to the combined questions Nos 7222 and 7601 by Mr Nollet and 7231 by Mr Thiébaut. It is a mistake, since Mr Nollet and Mr Thiébaut had asked for their questions to be postponed. The merged questions will therefore come back at a later date. In addition, I would like to ask the following question: Question No 7138 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 7558 by Mrs Heeren. Mrs Heeren is not present, but it is no problem for her to combine the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u77	Minister, questions have already been asked about whether or not to give further priority to intra-family violence in the National Security Plan. In July, you said that there was a group of experts working, led by two professors and composed of representatives of the justice and home affairs offices, the federal police, the College of Attorney General, the College of Mayors and each federated entity of the country. You said that the priorities for the framework paper were being worked out. That was also the case for the National Security Plan. I would simply like to ask you today a state of affairs regarding the format of those notes. Can you explain some of this already? To what extent and how will developments at European and international level be taken into account? To what extent and how is the private sector involved in the consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u78	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the priorities of the framework paper were defined and submitted to the National Security Council for advice. The National Security Council has delivered a positive opinion. I'll give you the ten priorities. Firstly, you will not be surprised at radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism. Secondly, human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Thirdly, an updated integrated and integrated drug policy. Ten vierde, social tax fraud. Ten vijfde, cyber crime cyber security. Sixthly, crime of violence, personal integrity and discrimination. This includes intra-family violence, sexual violence and child abuse. Seventhly, organized property crime and illegal traffic in goods. Eight, environment. Ninth, road safety. Tenth, trouble. Those are the ten priorities. These ten priorities include four more transversal themes. These are actually going through these ten priorities. The first is the development of a fully-fledged administrative approach to crime. Secondly, the establishment of a performance and coherent legal and institutional framework for the exchange of information between administrative and judicial authorities. Thirdly, the use of the Internet as a facilitator in committing crime. Fourthly, international cooperation is phenomenal, administrative and criminal. This means that for those ten priorities the four transversal themes are always considered. It is therefore being examined whether the legal framework is in order and whether there is an international exchange. If that's okay then it's okay, if it's not okay then getting it operational is part of this. Sheets are currently being prepared for each of these clusters. In the meantime, this work has almost been completed. These sheets indicate the strategic actions to be carried out by the various actors involved in the implementation of the framework paper. The group of experts has defined these priorities, taking into account both the data from the potential crime picture and the European priorities. I remember them: terrorism, cybercrime and organized crime. So you will find them in our priorities. The private sector is not directly involved in the ongoing discussion on the preparation of the framework paper. However, the sector has been consulted for the definition of possible actions and will be mobilised for the preparation of the framework paper through, in particular, the development of public-private partnerships. We did not involve the private sector in the vision. Now that the vision will soon be established by the government, the private sector will be involved in the elaboration of the vision in certain areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u80	Mr. President, Minister, you are currently working on civil protection reform. We had some elements through your general policy note. Negotiations are under way with trade union representatives. The government has already approved the removal of some front-line interventions on fires or road accidents. Minister, what will now be the mission of emergency preparedness? What is the load transferred to the emergency areas? What is the budgetary impact of this transfer on the areas? What will happen to the equipment used to carry out the missions that will be deleted? How will the barracks be organized? Which barracks are affected by the closure projects? How will closures be carried out? What is the proposed staff reduction rate? What is the budgetary impact of this reduction? You assured the trade unions that the reduction of civil protection missions and the closure of barracks would not be accompanied by dry dismissals. How will you proceed? What is the status of negotiations on the future administrative and financial status of civil protection officers? Will their status be equivalent to that of firefighters? What then is the budgetary impact? What will be the impact of the reform on local finances? Are new contacts with trade unions planned in the coming weeks? When can the draft be submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u81	Mrs Matz, civil protection will now benefit from clearer positioning and tangible added value in civil security. It will focus on specialized technical support, as defined in column 2 of the annex to the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014, while the first start-up and urgent support missions (column 1) will be transferred to the areas at the time of the entry into force of the reorganization. Areas will now need to be strengthened when their resources are not sufficient. Civil protection missions will therefore be less urgent, but interventions will be more specialized or longer-term. The ambition is for civil protection to become a corps of specialists organized around three groups of missions (clusters): CBRN incidents (chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear), search and rescue, crisis management and heavy technical support. After the formation of the zones, the idea is that the emergency tasks go back to the zones. If the needs relate to specialized equipment or personnel, this is a matter of civil protection. Thus the positions and responsibilities of civil protection are very well defined throughout the security chain. To answer at the same time your second and third questions, for the time being we are looking in depth at all the missions that the civil protection units carry out for the benefit of the different areas. We will calculate the impact and the cost. It is too early to provide a precise answer. But the work is almost done. A table already lists the tasks of civil protection in order to determine which tasks will be transferred to the areas and which will remain under their control. After this inventory, which has already been transferred to the ten governors, I will enter into negotiations with the different areas. It is clear that the operation must be fiscally neutral for local areas. The equipment will be transferred free of charge. On the other hand, for staff, we could increase the staffing of areas that take on civil protection tasks. With regard to the organisation of barracks, it is clear that this is the most difficult point of this reform. How many barracks are we going to keep and what? My services have prepared a list of criteria on the basis of which we can carry out an evaluation. I will present this list of criteria to Kern, because I wish to have the support of the majority. Secondly, we will carry out the evaluation on the basis of these criteria. We will also decide how many barracks to keep. I have always said that due to the fact that urgent tasks no longer involve civil protection, the time factor is less important. With regard to the proposed staff reduction rate...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u82	You told me nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u83	We're going to transfer personnel to the areas. We will reduce the number of barracks and we will not replace retirements in the future. There will be no dry layoffs. After the reform, the number of civil protection personnel will be lower than today because some tasks will be transferred to the safe areas and there will be fewer barracks. With this reduction in staff, we will be able to give firefighters the status of civil protection officers. As regards the negotiations on the future administrative and financial status, the ambition is to organise civil protection reform with the existing budget. Trade union negotiations are expected to take place in the coming weeks in order to define the way in which they are to be implemented. It is this vision that has been formulated, but the negotiations still need to be conducted. New contacts are planned with the trade unions. I have invited the latter to a very regular consultation because I believe that the reform that is defined gives opportunities for civil protection, which is confirmed by the trade unions themselves. These people do not know where their place is and the reform brings an improvement in their status and a very clear definition of their missions. I know that reducing the number of barracks will cause problems for some people. So we're going to figure out how we can solve these problems. Finally, there is a clear will to ensure the future of civil protection. This is therefore opening up opportunities. I think the unions are on the same page, even though they have questions about the criteria for reducing the number of barracks. I will be in consultation with them on a regular basis. For the time being, the project does not require legal changes. Nevertheless, it goes without saying that Parliament will be regularly informed of its progress. I have already asked several times, when a theme is added to the agenda, to be able to provide the necessary information. I will first present to Kern the proposal for the definition of the tasks to be carried out by civil protection and those to be transferred to the various areas and the criteria for choosing barracks. Secondly, I will present all this to the committee and we will have an exchange of ideas on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u84	Mr.Minister, this is of great interest to our colleagues, and this presentation would require two hours, or even a morning, of discussions on transfers of persons, their status, etc. Civil protection reform in connection with the reform of relief services is a subject of interest to local agents. I very much hope that the budgetary neutrality of the announced reform of civil protection will not be the same as that of police reform. At the time, it was said that police reform would be fiscally neutral for municipalities. I think all the communal representatives who are present will be able to confirm that this has not been the case. I therefore hope that this reform will show true budgetary neutrality because you also know, as mayor, the increasing burden on the municipalities. For the rest, does the President wish to note that it would be interesting to hear the Minister at the beginning of January about the elements of this reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u85	Mr President, Minister, before the 400 million you announced a supplementary budget of EUR 1 million for the ten communes specifically targeted by radicalism. At the end of a Council of Ministers, you mentioned the sums allocated to the Brussels municipalities. I would have liked to have the amounts for the Walloon and Flemish municipalities and the criteria for allocating that amount. You realize that you will need to make a contribution in addition to this amount. At the time of Mrs Milquet, they were ten communes and the budget was divided by ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u86	As a first step, we kept the same ten communes. Last week, I presented an additional budget of EUR 450,000 for five other municipalities which were not included in the original list but which face the same problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u87	Which cities are these?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u88	Two Walloon municipalities, two Flemish municipalities, Genk, and one Brussels municipality. I'll send you the list. Among the criteria are the number of foreign fighters who have returned, existing expertise and good practices (the cities that have taken good initiatives that would be usable elsewhere) and the geographical and "big city" context. We did not make a breakdown by Region but by city. For Anderlecht, EUR 75 000; for Antwerp, EUR 150 000; for Brussels, EUR 75 000; for Liège, EUR 50 000; for Maaseik, EUR 75 000; for Malines, EUR 100 000; for Schaerbeek, EUR 100 00; for Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, EUR 150 000; for Verviers, EUR 100 000; and for Vilvoorde, EUR 125 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u89	Did you use the same criteria for the five additional cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u90	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u91	Debates of the European Parliament 7151 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u92	Mr Minister, the figures on sexual violence in Belgium are high and very worrying. According to the latest police statistics, in 2014, 2,882 rapes were recorded, or nearly 8 rapes per day. And this is only a tiny part of the reality when we know that 90% of victims would not complain out of fear, shame or guilt. Under the past legislature, the Minister for the Interior and Equal Opportunities, in collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IEFH) and several women's rights associations, launched an important federal awareness-raising campaign entitled "Viol, break the silence" aimed precisely at inciting victims of sexual violence to break the silence and manifest themselves. The awareness-raising tools of the campaign, including a video clip, a website and a brochure, were designed to enable victims, their friends and families to find all the necessary information on the possibilities of making statements to the police and the procedures to be followed. For its part, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IEFH) has also published a brochure for victims, which has been sent to police stations, prosecutors' offices, municipalities and CPAS. Mr Minister, has this campaign been evaluated in cooperation with your colleague Mrs Sleurs in charge of Equal Opportunities? If so, what is your assessment? Could you tell me whether this awareness-raising campaign was used in police training? What new initiatives are being taken to better accommodate victims of sexual violence and encourage them to testify? Finally, in its 2014 annual report, the Brussels Support Centre (CAB) sent a memorandum asking you to promote, in the framework of this campaign, and with the collaboration of this centre, the awareness-raising and training of police officers on the issue of sexual crime and the care of victims and perpetrators of sexual violence. Could you please inform us of your follow-up to this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, the Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, has indeed assessed this campaign and will, over the next few years, set up a series of campaigns, in particular to encourage victims to make a statement. The Secretary of State has also evaluated the website and will adapt it if necessary so that it can be operational online by 14 February 2016 in another form. On the basis of the changes in the policy and reception of victims of sexual violence following the establishment of the multidisciplinary reception centre to combat sexual violence, the information brochure for victims will also be adapted. Measures that have an impact on the functioning of the police services are obviously implemented, improved or even optimized. Yes, this campaign was used in police training. Two new continuing training accreditation files were created. One has the training number 4760 for the case of "acceptance of victims of sexual violence" by the personnel set up for this purpose in the police areas. This training can be provided to both CALOG and police personnel. The other file is number 1729. This is the file "first survey of adult victims of sexual assault". Police academies and police areas had not waited for these new training accreditation files to take initiatives at their level. Some police areas have made aide-mémoires available to their staff. In 2014, a syllabus "delicts of morality", approved by the authority, was made available to police schools as educational support for basic and continuing training. In addition, the manual "delicts of manners" has been inserted on the police's internal website and it is planned to disseminate it and advertise it on a large scale, in particular through a study day on the subject. Finally, in the new basic training programme of the police inspector started in October 2015, cluster 8, which deals with reception and police assistance, has competences dealing with this particular subject, namely to ensure quality reception, to provide adequate guidance and to provide appropriate support to victims. Within this latter jurisdiction in particular, a documentary reference is made to the campaign entitled "Stop Rape". This is what is provided for in the basic training, next to the other two modules I mentioned. With regard to your third question, in the answer to the second question, the various initiatives taken to improve the reception of victims of sexual violence, namely two ongoing trainings, aide-mémoires written in police areas, the syllabus 'Délit de mœurs', as well as the development of specific skills on this subject within a cluster of the new basic training of the inspector. The various contents deal with the reception of victims and the encouragement of testimony. With regard to your last question, the initiatives described in the answer to the previous question attest well to the follow-up given to this recommendation. These combined initiatives are intended to raise awareness and train police officers on the issue and on the care of both victims and perpetrators of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for making progress on the matter. This is a subject which is discussed in particular in the Equal Opportunities Opinion Committee, where we have heard numerous hearings. These have shown that there are really great differences in the management of this problem at the level of police areas. I can only encourage you to work to reduce these differences on the ground and to work on the communication of common procedures to be adopted within the different police areas. This is essential, both for the reception of victims and for prevention. I will allow myself to come back to the subject in order to know the assessment that has been made of these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u95	Minister, I'm not going to be long. You have largely answered most of these questions last week in the debate on terrorism. With regard to the device for the removal of identity cards that we voted for in July, arrests were to be made. I think it's been effective since October. Without going into detail, I would like to know whether this mechanism has already been implemented since it was voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u96	Ma'am, the royal decree is ready. It states that the provision will come into force on January 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u97	You answered my other questions at the Special Committee on Terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u98	Mr Minister, since the entry into force of the law of 13 May 1999, the system of municipal administrative sanctions, abbreviated GAS, has been made possible. The aim of this instrument is to enable municipalities to address nuisance problems in an administrative manner. Moreover, the law would go against the feeling of impunity for certain infringements and conduct. Some time ago you had an evaluation of the GAS legislation made by the Flemish Association of Cities and Municipalities. According to the chairman of the Committee on Mayors and Security of the VVSG, Mr Marnic De Meulemeester, there is still a sense of impunity, despite the legislation of the GAS. Mr De Meulemeester felt that there were still insufficient opportunities to effectively punish nuisance. The VVSG thinks it can solve the problem in the future with periodic penalty payments. Fines will then be higher and easier to enforce. The VVSG has therefore asked you to examine the possibility of a legislative framework for such periodic penalty payments. You said you'd look into the proposal. That is why I would have liked an answer to the following questions. How does the punishment of ongoing infringements take place at the moment? Can continuous infringements be punished several times? When will a consultation with the VVSG take place? Or is this already there? Within what time limit do you wish to evaluate the GAS legislation? Could you possibly make this evaluation available to the members of this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u99	Mr Top, the law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions, which together with its implementing acts constitutes the current legal framework of municipal administrative sanctions, provides in Article 7 that an administrative sanction is proportionate, in function of the gravity of the facts that justify it and in function of the possible repetition. Repetition exists where the offender has already been sanctioned for the same infringement within the twenty-four months preceding the new finding of the infringement. Thus, if an infringement persists, the municipality may impose a second, higher and, where appropriate, a third, even higher fine after an initial administrative fine. The decision to impose an administrative fine shall have enforceable effect after the expiry of one month from the date of notification, except where an appeal is lodged. That's the procedure. There is indeed an evaluation under way. It will be completed before the end of the year. All interested parties were asked to provide an input, including the VVSG. What she has said on this subject is part of the evaluation. This means that the debate can be opened in 2016. I will therefore, on the basis of the evaluations, make proposals to tighten up or amend the GAS Act. Then we can have the debate on this, here in Parliament. As a result of this debate, I would like to make sure that the committee and Parliament are involved in the evaluation, which seems to me to be a document in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am also pleased to hear your confirmation of the interpretation of the legislation. I regret that you are being asked in this way to impose periodic penalty payments, which is already provided for in the legislation. If a PV is drawn up correctly, and if there is a proper procedure by the official or the person issuing the fines, then there may already be a repetition. Your answer is therefore an improvement. Was the answer that you are giving to me already delivered to the members of that committee and its chairman?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u101	No, because these are all documents in the context of the evaluation, on the basis of which we will make proposals for the amendment of the law. There hasn't been an individual feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u102	I am pleased that this part of the evaluation has already been made and that it will be included in the further discussion and any proposals for the amendment of the GAS legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u103	Questions Nos 6910, 6912, 7606 and 7608 by Mr Pivin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u104	Mr President, Minister, when a parking card for disabled people expires, public authorities rely on the goodwill of its owner or relatives to return it. But, in fact, this is not always the case. In response to an oral question sent last July to the Secretary of State for Disability Policy, she told me that about 200,000 cards belonging to deceased persons had not been returned to the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. As a result, these cards, outdated or unauthorized, are in circulation in our territory and could be used fraudulently. She also added that she wanted to set up a system to directly monitor the validity of these cards and to combat fraud in this sector more effectively. As Mrs. Sleurs sent me back to you, let me ask you a few questions. Have you been questioned by her on this matter? If so, how do you intend to work together to end the fraudulent use of these cards? Do you think that police officers are sufficiently aware of the importance of enforcing parking for persons with disabilities? How are people using these parking cards fraudulently punished? Is a report drawn up by the police officers? What are the sanctions? Would it be possible for you to send me written statistics on the number of cases of fraud, fines or other sanctions over the past five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u105	Mrs Winckel, I confirm that the subject has been discussed. Education, awareness-raising and monitoring are effective means of combating the fraudulent use of parking spaces for persons with disabilities. Since 2013, offences related to prohibited parking in places reserved for persons with disabilities have also been covered by the Act on communal administrative sanctions, which considerably increases the objective risk of being verbalized. The number of infringements is expected to decrease over the long term, given the efforts of the municipalities. It is true that control over the use of a parking card and sanctions for abuse are not included among the main tasks of the police. The file on the key tasks of the police is currently at the government level. I therefore do not wish to move forward on the decisions to be taken. In addition to the seizure of the false card, the person who uses it has a card that does not belong to him and commits an infringement of Article 27a of the Road Code which is punishable by a levy of 110 euros or a fine ranging from 120 euros to 1,500 euros and the deprivation of the right to drive. In addition, some prosecutors use other provisions of criminal law. In order to punish these offenders even more severely, article 62bis of the Law on the Road Traffic Police punishes a fine of 600 to 6,000 euros and/or a term of imprisonment of 15 days to three months. With regard to your request for statistics for the last five years, I ask you to ask me a written question on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u106	Minister, thank you for your answer. This situation is problematic. Given the number of difficulties faced by persons with disabilities, it is important to address this issue. Two hundred thousand cards out of date in nature, that's the question. I will come back to you by means of a written question, in which I will ask how the municipalities manage to implement this regulation and to give me the figures on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u107	Mr. Minister, it is good to see how fruitful the exchanges can be and to go in the same direction. You answered exactly like Ms. Galant to the question about parking cards for people with disabilities. That's reassuring for the federal government. Like Mrs. Galant, you say it's up to the communal police to do their job. The meaning of my speech is that: it is a question of having sufficient means to do so. I have heard you talk about the budgetary neutrality of the services that Mrs Matz asked you about. I'm going to the computer servers. The Federal Police recently sent a letter to the various police areas in the country. This letter is intended to inform police areas that computer server maintenance contracts are due to expire at the end of this year. It is implicitly explained that the police areas will then have to worry themselves about the maintenance of their servers. Until now, the federal police had been involved in the technical support of these servers and had ensured their proper functioning, in partnership with the supplier. Here are my questions. For what reasons has the federal police decided not to take care of the technical support of these servers? Does the federal government leave all the budgetary burden of maintenance in the hands of police areas? Has the federal government provided financial and/or technical compensation to deal with this situation and the problems that may result? If so, what form will this compensation take? I confess that you have raised some hope in my home with civil protection. You spoke of budgetary neutrality. Mrs. Winckel is an alderman in her city, Soignies, which, as she says, is a beautiful town! Does Brasschaat represent about 37,000 inhabitants? It is also a beautiful commune. Treatments account for 25,000. Binche 33,000. We're 66 per cent more, as far as the emergency zone is concerned. I hope I have some good news for the computer servers today. For the police area, there was no increase in staffing. All this is added up, for cities and municipalities. When you talk about budgetary neutrality for civil protection, I would like to know what the solution will be for computer servers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u108	Colleague, each police area currently has several servers that form the platform for Integrated System for the Local Police (ISLP) modules: three servers and other applications made available by the ICT Police Information Directorate, two servers for administrative applications and PUMA mail solution. The acquisition and maintenance policy is different for part of the servers. The servers used for ISLP modules were acquired by the police areas. The purchase price included a warranty period of five years by the supplier. This period is exceeded for some areas and is still ongoing for others. In line with the budgetary assumption of the purchase by the zones, it has always been foreseen that the cost of maintenance after five years or the replacement cost of the servers would be borne by the police areas. The servers used in administrative applications and as a PUMA mail solution were acquired from the federal budget in 2007 and 2009. Already in 2012, the Federal Police Telematics Directorate warned the police areas that the replacement of these two servers was to be foreseen in the budget planning of the area for 2013. At that time, it was the intention of the Telematics Directorate to carry out a framework contract at the federal level, which police areas could have used to acquire the servers. This plan failed following the decision of the ISIS (Innovative Solutions for Integrated Services) program. I find this name wrong under the circumstances we are currently living for a police project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u109	This was decided in time non-suspecto.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u110	It is an innovation program in police information and ICT within the integrated police. This plan has therefore failed as a result of ISIS's decision, in accordance with the federal government's directive, to make optimal use of existing contracts in other federal public services and not to establish a new clean market for the purchase of servers. However, this decision did not take into account the fact that no federal contract grants the possibility of purchasing a police area. In order to meet the needs of police areas, however, the Directorate of Police Information and CTI has proposed two solutions that can be used in a complementary manner. The first is the implementation of a complementary maintenance plan on existing servers. In the fourth quarter of 2015, DRI provided for the possibility for police areas to subscribe to a four-year multi-year agreement opened by the SPF Finance. Through this agreement, the maintenance of the servers can be continued for another period at the choice of the police zone and terminated monthly. The agreement with FPS Finance provides the same levels of service as those offered by the original maintenance contract. This contract has just been awarded to IBM. A second option is to replace the server on the basis of a purchase at the level of the police zone. Although a comprehensive framework contract is not available strictlyo sensu, the Directorate of Police Information and ICT Resources continues to actively seek alternative contracts available at local level which would once again give the possibility to propose a number of standard configurations for the benefit of the areas concerned. In the meantime, the technical features to be met by the servers have been made available to the police areas. This solution offers a hardware environment on which virtual servers can be installed and maintained by the technicians of the Police Information Directorate and ICT means. It should be noted that the goal is absolutely not that the police areas replace their existing facility entirely in the short term. The problem can therefore be approached from an economic point of view. The only urgent need is the replacement of the server for administrative applications by mid-2016, given its age of nine years. The approach proposed by the federal police to funding the maintenance and replacement of computer servers by police areas remains consistent with the strategy communicated over the past several years. The federal police also undertake to assist and support police areas, upon request, in the search for solutions and subsequent actions, such as the use of an existing contract, the provision of advice or advice in relation to the choice of the environment, the development of specifications, minimum technical requirements and compliance with security policies. No additional financial and/or technical compensation is therefore foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u111	Minister, I appreciate your clarity. There will be no financial compensation. Thus, there is no additional question. There is no hope in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u112	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I asked Mrs Galant this question at the time of the events and she sent me back to you. Following the attack in the Thalys between Amsterdam and Paris, you went to Paris to attend a meeting with the ministers of several European Union countries with which France has cross-border rail links, namely Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium. According to our information, the purpose of the meeting was to discuss very concrete measures and to establish collaboration between the various countries concerned in order to strengthen the fight against terrorism in railway stations and trains. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cazeneuve, the French Minister of the Interior, explained that concrete measures would be discussed. What are these measures? What were the topics discussed at this meeting? What was decided at the end of the meeting? What collaborations will be put in place between different countries to strengthen the fight against terrorism in railway stations and trains? What is the timing for these collaborations? What federal services will be associated in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u113	Mr Devin, a meeting was held in Paris a week after the attempted attack in Thalys. The meeting brought together Interior Ministers and Transport Ministers from nine European countries, the two Commissioners responsible for these matters within the European Commission and Gilles de Kerchove, the European coordinator for the fight against terrorism. This meeting provided an opportunity to take stock of the actions taken at the Belgian, French and Dutch railway stations following the attempted attack in Thalys, to know the points of convergence on the actions to be developed in the medium and long term and to exchange good practices and feedback from neighbouring countries. The Minister of Mobility and I have begun to look for areas on which we can improve safety. This work is still under way. This research benefits from good collaboration and several contacts with France. But we have not yet concluded and defined how we can better ensure security. Once this work is completed, I will be able to report back to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u114	Minister, I understand that the work is under way. Have you set a deadline for concrete action? Minister Galant often tells us about security portals at main stations. Has there been a schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u115	It's already taken a few months. I think we can finish in the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u116	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u117	Mr. President, Minister, absenteeism at work because of illness is a constant concern of private and public companies. The police forces have not escaped the phenomenon and have recorded record absenteeism rates for many years. This is particularly the case in the Houille-Semois police area, which I mentioned to you a few months ago. Since 2004, the Federal Police has developed an action plan to reduce absenteeism at work. Medical checks have been optimized, initiatives have been taken to provide more adequate medical and psychosocial guidance to staff, as well as to ensure that staff are in good physical condition. Specific training courses have also been set up. Despite these provisions, the police would still face numerous abuses. The current statutory framework, which allows staff to accumulate hundreds of unused days of illness during the staff's career, thanks to the complacency of some physicians and the absence of doctors-control or even accomplices, encourages staff to take all of their leave at the end of their career. On the other hand, the statute provides for too many types and possibilities of leave, in addition to traditional leave: illness of circumstances, reduction of working time, donation of blood of several types, political leave, trade unions, for family reasons (communion, marriage, etc.).), which offer staff a wide choice of justified absences and make the situation conducive to abuse. Minister, do you confirm the existence of certain abuses? If so, what strategy do you intend to put in place to stem this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u118	Mr Clarinval, I would like to point out from the outset that the donation of blood has been denied leave for years. The extension of career time has just been imposed on the police. It would not be appropriate, at this time of terrorist risk, to make further amendments to the statute. Any abuse of leave for non-medical reasons is not quantifiable. Monitoring of their merits is the responsibility of the head of personnel of each federal police entity and of each police area. You focus on unwarranted medical absenteeism, which would imply the concomitance of at least five parties: the legislator of police status, the staff member seeking unwarranted days of incapacity, the attending physician establishing the certificate of complacency, the comptroller physician who is complicit with the prescriber of the incapacity, and the provincial consulting physician who would close his eyes to the combination. Such an association of conspirators seems to me to be unbelievable, especially since their objectives are often divergent. As for the increase in medical absenteeism, in recent years everyone knows that it concerns the entire public sector – without the private sector being spared. With regard to the comparative assessment of absenteeism rates, I have the figures for police services between 2008 and 2014 and those of different social secretariats of the private sector (Securex, SD-Works, Medex) for the same period. For the police, the rate in 2008 was 6.21, reaching 7.35 in 2014. In the case of SD-Works, there are 3.96 for 2008 and 5.12 for 2014. For Securex, it was 5.3 in 2008 and 6.3 in 2014. As for Medex, I only have the figures since 2010: 5.6 for 2010 and 5.71 in 2014. We are therefore seeing an increase everywhere, but the figures are lower in the private sector. In fine analysis, we see that both in the police and in the private sector, the rate of absenteeism has gradually increased, while sick leave has – paradoxically – decreased. This means that the observed population is less often ill, but for longer periods of time. SD-Works explains this by the ageing of workers (up 58%) and the explosion of psychosocial diseases (up 37%), such as the consequences of stress, burn-out and reaction depression. The Medex report for 2014 also highlights an increase in the rate of absenteeism with age, reaching a peak in the year assumed to precede that of early retirement. The aging of police officers is no secret. This population suffers more frequently from serious diseases and the legacy of old accidents, aggravated by age. Elderly but motivated police officers easily tend to sublimate. This allows them, with the help of medicine, to limit the effects of time, illness or the sequelae of accidents. On the other hand, if the atmosphere at work is not motivating, the policeman quickly exhausts his psychic defenses and thinks only of the evil he suffers. He falls ill while it is impossible to return him to work because he suffers from a serious and objectivable affection. Two groups of conditions are particularly common in the police, as at the federal level: those affecting the musculoskeletal system and those related to stress. The frequency of damage to the musculoskeletal system is logical in an operational profession. The frequency of work incapacity due to stress is partly due to the particular content of the profession. For example, stress-related conditions account for almost two thirds of the causes of final medical pensioning by police personnel fitness boards. The strategies to be put in place are the responsibility of each employer, both at the federal and local police levels. Prior to the plans to combat absenteeism developed and constantly energized by the federal police, the focus was on the controlling approach. It is important not to deny its importance, but it is only effective when it is included in a system approach that takes into account other human resource practices such as job motivation, training, well-being, communication and leadership. It is therefore important to find a good balance. The plan, initiatives and support at the federal police level, as well as other police areas, can inspire areas facing very high rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer. I fully share the ideas that you put forward. Given the numbers you're announcing, the area I'm in is clearly above. We are more than 10%. The problem is probably there. I draw attention to the fact that we would have liked to have been controlled by Medex. But Medex no longer accepts new areas, because they think they already have too much work. We would have liked to have been able to benefit from this service, which is effective. In the absence of this, we are forced to stick to the old formula, which is clearly less so. There are also internal causes to the situation we are living in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u120	Mr President, Minister, the Road Safety Fund was set up by the Federal Government in 2001 with a view to raising the financial resources necessary for the development of road safety, through the implementation of the objectives set by the European bodies, including that of reducing by 50% the number of deaths and serious injuries on the road by 2010. Within this framework, police areas are allocated a certain amount each year for the implementation of actions to promote road safety. These amounts are calculated on the basis of three criteria: the size of the police zone, the mileage of roads in the area and the number of victims (dead and seriously injured) of road accidents recorded in the area. In 2008, a programme law introduced significant changes to the Fund's system: 2007 was taken as the reference year for the calculation of the subsidy. The 2007 amount will therefore no longer be reviewed from year to year on the basis of the three criteria set out above but simply indexed. If I take as an example the case of the police zone in which my commune is located, I observe some illogicalisms. The fact, for example, of taking a single year as a reference in the calculation of the sums allocated seems to me to seriously compromise the fidelity to the road reality of the areas. Within the Houille-Sémois area, for example, 2007 was an exceptionally mortifying year. It is therefore a lack of objectivity to take this year as a reference! Then, after calculation, it appears that some areas smaller than ours are allocated much higher amounts, which does not seem to me very logical. Minister, I therefore wonder about the relevance of keeping this year 2007 as a reference. Do you not think that the method of calculation should be reviewed in order to be able to take account of the evolution of mortality following the action of the police in order to be able to make the distribution of the Road Safety Fund and therefore to take more account of the reality of the areas and the efforts they have made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u121	Mr Clarinval, as from the 2009 budget year, in addition to the amendment to which you are referring whose primary aim was to speed up and simplify the granting of the amounts to the integrated police, another new feature was introduced by the 2008 programme law, which states that the additional revenue compared to the 2007 budget year of the allocated share referred to in Article 5(1) of the Law on the establishment and financing of road safety action plans is divided between the police zones and the federal police in two stages. The first step is to allocate these revenues by region on the basis of the location of the finding of infringements. The second stage being the distribution for the benefit of each police zone and the federal police on the basis of the same criteria to which you referred, after they have been updated. The criteria are: - the categorization of local police areas and the federal police into 5 groups according to the organizational police framework; - a reduction in the number of road traffic victims and/or traffic accidents in which there are injuries or deaths, respectively, that fall within the jurisdiction of the local police zone or the federal police. It's a goal. Areas that are successful in combating road traffic incidents are validated; - the road mileage for which the local police zone or the federal police are competent. It is the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 14 January 2015, which lays down the arrangements for the distribution of this additional revenue. Consequently, their distribution is in perfect agreement with the reality of the areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u122	Minister, thank you for that answer. I note that this additional allocation takes into account the efforts that have been made. That's what I wanted to go to. But, as I understand it, in the first part of the classic, we don't move anymore. It is clear that for this first part, the year in question had been very bad for us. But this is partly corrected by this second part.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u123	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 7456 and No. Mr Dallemagne's 7457 has already been dealt with in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schepmans has converted 7501 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u124	Minister, on the basis of a proven situation, one family leaves one commune, mine, and actually settles in another, for reasons of private order. My municipality sends the news an application for registration ex officio. But it refuses to grant this family residence on its territory on the ground that the chalet chosen cannot serve as a home, which is its right. However, this family did indeed leave its former home and the property sold is occupied by others. After a year of status quo, we make the decision to remove the family from the population register. The decision is considered illegitimate by the Ministry of the Interior, which does not, however, propose any other decision. The situation of insecurity applies to both communes as well as to the family, in a situation of "administrative death", and its children, who are allowed to change their school during the cycle only if there is a change of home, not of residence. Can you tell me, minister, what is the solution and what are everyone's obligations to get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u125	Mr Piedboeuf, any municipality must search for persons who have established their principal residence in another municipality of the Kingdom or abroad without making a declaration of change of residence, in accordance with article 8 of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on the population register and the register of aliens. If it is not possible to find the new principal residence, the municipal college shall order the deregistration of its own motion on the basis of a police investigation report finding it impossible to determine the principal residence. If it follows from the investigation that the person concerned has established his or her principal residence in another municipality of the Kingdom, the administration of that municipality shall be notified accordingly. For this purpose, a model form 6 is sent to the person's deemed municipality of residence. In this case, an investigation will be carried out at the person's presumed principal residence and if the investigation proves to be positive, it will be entered at the address where it has now fixed its principal residence, possibly by decision of the municipal college. If, on the other hand, the person remains unobtainable, the deemed municipality of residence shall transmit a model 4, a certificate of non-inscription, to the municipality of registration of the person, who may remove the person from office if all the necessary checks have been carried out and that person remains undetectable and unobtainable. In the event that this person is present in the presumed main residence but that his registration is refused by the municipality on the grounds of urban planning, health, security or spatial planning and that that municipality communicates a model 4 to the municipality in which that person is still registered, the latter may not proceed with his deregistration ex officio since that person has established his actual principal residence in a dwelling determined by a positive police report. In order to unblock this situation, article 8 of the Act of 19 July 1991 on the population register states that "in the event of difficulties or disputes concerning the principal residence, the Minister who has the interior in his powers shall determine the place of residence after having had an on-the-spot investigation carried out if necessary". In this case, instead of de-listing, the municipality may refer the dispute to my department. By ministerial circular of 30 August 2013, it was reminded once again to the communes that this procedure of delisting ex officio must be used with caution by the communes and remain an exceptional measure, as this decision of delisting ex officio has immense consequences for the citizen concerned. For both those who have left the dwelling and those who have just joined it, it is recommended that the population service of the current management commune, upon receipt of the police report proposing de-listing, immediately mention the proposal for de-listing to IT 019 of the national register and place the new and former occupant in separate households in the national register. I would like to have the written answer, which describes the entire procedure. If you are facing such a situation, you should not use the channel of oral questions, but contact my office directly, which will help you as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u126	Thank you, Minister. I won't fail to do that. Here we find ourselves in a situation where they're registered somewhere but there's someone else in the house. We don't know where to put them. I will therefore follow your instructions and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u127	Minister, of course, I do not want to interfere with the organization of the government. However, the province of Luxembourg - which had been the subject of a pilot project in terms of 1733 and 112 - faced a problem inasmuch as the seconded officers of the Ministry of the Interior were sometimes lacking and the staff in charge of the 1733 was overwhelmed, even threatening to stop the service completely. I know that the powers are divided between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health, but we need to find a way to make these two services work. I would therefore like to know your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u128	Mr Piedboeuf, the situation at Centre 112 in Arlon will be regularized. In fact, three operators will be engaged in early 2016. In addition, a publication for the recruitment of operators in Wallonia is under way. With regard to 1733, for several weeks now, we have taken steps to harmonize and simplify the way in which these calls are handled. For example, we automated the sending of administrative data to general or on-call medical positions. Previously, the data had to be encoded first in the 112 software and then re-encoded in the 1733 software. Some calls, after sorting by 112 operators, are more quickly transferred to general medicine – which releases them faster, as well as the telephone line of course. The taking of calls for emergency medical assistance and fire services is not in jeopardy, as there is always an operator in charge of these calls at the time the 1733 is active. More generally, we are actively working with the Ministry of Health to continue the generalization of 1733. In this regard, a memorandum of understanding has been concluded between us. It makes it possible to recruit operators specifically for the 112 and 100 centres. We also decided to cooperate supra-provincially in order to centralize resources and standardize operating procedures. In this regard, Centre 112 and 100 of Arlon is selected as one of the two centres that will handle calls 1733 throughout Wallonia. It has the experience of the project as well as the infrastructure to increase its capacity as a result of its recent migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u129	Minister, that's perfect. That's the answer I've been waiting for. We are therefore moving towards improved service and problem-solving.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u130	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 7583 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u131	It's a subject you're probably going to be interested in, Minister. I will not read the whole question again, but you know the subject. In southern Luxembourg, instead of making a single area for the south, three police zones had been established. It happens that one of the zone chiefs is going to be pensioned. Consideration is being given to changing the perimeter of the zones. We realize that the law allows for mergers of areas but not a redistribution of the territory. However, when the situation in the three areas is well analysed, it would be possible to do only two more. One would have a cross-border vocation, and the other a rural vocation. Between mayors we find that this is an intelligent and economical solution. We realize that the costs, from one area to another, are very different. If the area in which I am, which is that of the Gaume, can accept an increase in the participation of the municipalities, it is not to go so far as to bear the costs of the border areas which are much more expensive. Is it possible to recoup areas, or is the law strict and allows only mergers? Some topical issues concerning Brussels make this issue interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u132	Mr Piedboeuf, in my answer to Mr Koenraad Degroote's parliamentary question, I have already mentioned that the reform of judicial districts since 1 April 2014 offers prospects in terms of potential partners to municipalities that want to form a new entity by separating themselves from an existing police area due, for example, to operational, functional or social needs. I can add that my will is that the police areas are located in the fire zones. It is already a lasagna of different levels, if it can happen, eventually by stimulating mergers, that the police areas are located in the emergency areas, that would make things a little easier. In the draft law on various internal provisions, an integrated police force, which will be tabled in Parliament shortly, the use of amendments other than mergers already provided for in article 9 of the Integrated Police Act is again envisaged, provided that this does not lead to an exceedance of the current number of police areas. This condition implies that municipalities wishing to separate themselves from an existing police zone must necessarily enter another police zone. It's demerger to refuse. The simple division of a police zone with an autonomous reorganization of the parties making up it is not on the agenda. With this in mind, I would like to point out that the scale-optimization of police and relief areas should ideally be harmonized to avoid creating chaos in the emergency services landscape. As I have already said, a police zone cannot extend over two or three emergency areas because it would make things too complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u133	Minister, I recognize your pragmatism here. But in relation to your reflection to match the police and rescue zones, in the province of Luxembourg, there is only one rescue zone for the entire province. It may be difficult to make only one police zone, even if it was the time of the gendarmerie. There are possibilities, we will examine the best possible situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u134	I said that the police areas must be within the emergency areas, not that they must correspond to them. The emergency zone may consist of several police areas. Maybe in the long run, it'll match. But for the time being, the vision is that police areas must be located in the district of a rescue zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u135	That's very good. The mayors will be happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u136	Questions Nos 7599 and 7600 by Mr Nollet have already been postponed. Questions Nos 7606 and 7608 by Mr Pivin are also postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u137	Minister, the Schengen Information System (SIS) is an information system introduced in the context of the implementation of the Schengen area. It is one of the measures taken to compensate for free movement within the Schengen area. The aim of these compensatory measures is to provide at least the same level of protection as for the abolition of frontiers. This information system allows the responsible authorities of the Schengen States to exchange information for border controls on persons and objects. This system shall record, inter alia, foreign nationals and persons who are subject to discreet surveillance or specific control in the fight against criminal acts or in order to avoid disturbances of public policy. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Is a gradation used when signaling persons? I can imagine that there are different degrees in the system, ranging from high risk to low risk. Is this sufficiently clear in the database? Does that database include a category of 'risk of terrorism'? Is the database in which individuals entered completely up-to-date? If no, how long does it take for a closed person to be added to the database? How many cases are currently lagging behind? How many people would have to be left behind, but aren't they due to the delay? Finally, is the exchange of information between the various services involved sufficiently smooth? How and by whom is this exchange of information coordinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u138	Mr Top, it is not technically possible to assign a gradation to an alert when entering the SIS. However, different types of alert are possible, depending on the desired measures to be taken, such as arrest, localization and discreet or thorough checking. So that's actually a typology. So when the police stop someone and check in the Schengen database, a distinction can be made: that's someone we have to arrest immediately, that's someone we have to check seriously, or that's someone we have to let know where we've seen him, because we want to follow him somehow. A priority order was established at European level between these types of alert in case of incompatible alerts being applied for. There is also the possibility to select, within an alert, as a type of crime, terrorism or related activity. This crime domain is visible to the Belgian end user in case he finds an alerted person following a check. The crime domain is therefore available in the SIS, but we do not see the national control applications in the other countries and thus the visibility for their end-users. The fact that someone is, for example, violent, armed or dangerous can also be added and is then visible in the alert. In theory, an application alert is considered to be a flash message. This means that the file has to be completed within 24 hours. The time limit for issuing an alert depends on several factors, which may extend the treatment period. These factors may include the completeness of the application, the time at which the application arrives, the organisation of the service, technical problems with the required programme performance plans. Since there is no delay, no statistical data are available. Within the federal police, CGI-SPOC is the end point of alert for the whole country. They are largely dependent on their judicial and police partners. The final decision for the signaling of persons shall be taken by the competent magistrate. The exchange of information is going pretty well. The federal prosecutor coordinates criminal proceedings and facilitates international cooperation. Nevertheless, most of the files belong to the district parquets.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u139	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to learn that if the information cannot be introduced in gradation, then at least the species can be used, so that terms such as terrorism, inciting terrorism, extremism or violence can be introduced. What concerns me is your answer to my second question, namely that the information is charged within 24 hours and is in the database. I was given other information if there was a delay in the import or in the completion of the data. So my concern remains that things are being introduced but that the data are not complete. That should be followed up. The reason for my question is quite clear. In the aftermath of the attacks in Paris, some crossed the border several times, but were not controlled. I would therefore strongly urge that at least the completeness of these databases be checked on our side, so that we can properly control and prevent state-dangerous persons in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u140	Mr Minister, it is not certain that an emergency call on 112 will always arrive in the region where it is sent. Different sounds are spoken differently by French speakers than by Dutch speakers, so street names are not always understood. That's not just between different regions, but also between different dialects, is it, Mr President? Between Moorsele and Moorslee! As a result, precious time is lost in playing street names. In addition to this problem, it also doesn't seem possible to switch mobile phone calls to the right power station. An additional problem is that if an ambulance is sent from the Walloon region, it is obliged to take the victim to a French-speaking hospital, since the ambulance is connected to the hospital. This daily problem has not yet been resolved. A few months ago, you stated in this committee that part of the solution lies in the routing of the mobile phone calls to the telecom operators. In addition, you say that emergency power stations around the language border must have at least one operator who knows another national language. What is the current state of affairs in this dossier? Is it true that there are technical problems to redirect cell phone calls to the right power station? Can steps be taken to address this problem? The last question concerns multilingual operators. In the meantime, do multilingual operators work on both sides of the language border?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u141	Today there are already operators/calltakers who have knowledge of the other national language, but this is not required in the recruitment process. They can help the caller in most cases, but of course it can always be better, where the need to organise new language courses. Efforts have already been made in the past to improve the language skills of operators and calltakers in emergency power stations and Cicads. This will continue in the near future. My administration is currently preparing a public contract with the aim of organising new language courses for operators/calltakers in 2016. It must be clear that these language courses will not in themselves ensure that every operator or calltaker will be perfectly bilingual or trilingual. For this reason, it is also being considered whether this problem cannot be dealt with in any other way. Technologically, it cannot be avoided that calls around a provincial border are exceptionally routed to another province. The same applies to calls from the language border area. In the border area, a call can be captured by a mobile tower of a neighbouring province. The routing of emergency calls to an emergency power station 112/100 is done on the basis of the mast that captures the radiation from the mobile phone. In principle, mobile operators can adapt the routing to the desired province by antenna and by sector of antenna to optimize routing. The rerouting of the emergency calls will then apply to the entire coverage of the antenna or sector. It is therefore technically not feasible to follow the provincial boundaries perfectly. There is today a procedure whereby emergency calls that are misrouted are forwarded to the competent emergency control unit 112/100 after basic search. This procedure was strictly observed in the case of Call B. The IVR technology, which allows you to work with a menu of choice, can make it possible to switch a French-speaking call in Flanders to a dispatch room where French is spoken, and vice versa for a Dutch-speaking call in Wallonia. You know we're working on pilot projects. I believe that this can provide a solution. The critical success factor is that not much time should be wasted by pressing that one key. The latter is the subject of the pilot project. However, handling a call in another language can also take a lot of time. This consideration will have to be made on the basis of experience with pilot projects. I think I have already answered your third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u142	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am effectively pleased that attention is also being paid to remedying this. In 2016, funds will be made available to provide language courses again. You are right, that was not a requirement to be employed in the past. On the other hand, it does not guarantee that everyone will be perfectly bilingual or in some regions even almost trilingual in order to be able to answer all the questions. With regard to IVR technology, which stands and falls under the very rapid procedure which would then have to be introduced in the event of such an urgent emergency call. That will therefore have to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u143	Mr President, Minister, this is an informative question on the state of play. The question was asked by the VSOA. Apparently, in February this year, the VSOA submitted a proposal to better arm the police officers and thus equip them with a gun. Of course, it's not so obvious to simply better arm police officers. The availability of weapons is not enough; policemen must also take the necessary courses. We can also ask ourselves other questions. Would it not be better to arm police officers in some cases to increase the display of power? Following and success in the necessary training and violence management are not insignificant. Why don't police officers in that position have a gun today? In the meantime, have you considered the proposal of the U.S.O.P.D.? In view of the current situation, is there any chance that this problem will be reviewed? Is there going to be a better armament for police officers, not only with gunfire, but also with other weapons? Is this being discussed, not only with the USA, which has submitted this question, but also with the other social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u144	Mr President, Minister, the requests for the arming of police officers are not new. Last January, following Charlie Hebdo's attacks, I asked you about this and you told me that you were thinking about it. The police officers were, at the time, a particular target. This type of request is now reappearing. A few years ago, this issue of the arming of police officers was the subject of debate. Indeed, in 2010, the SLFP Police had requested from the then Minister of the Interior, Annemie Turtelboom, that police officers could be armed in the same way as police inspectors and commissioners, given the same risks they face in the performance of their duties, because, although they are limited mainly in terms of traffic, the risk and danger do exist. However, police officers only possess a pair of handcuffs and a small tear gas bomb. At the time, the Standing Committee on Local Police had considered that the use of a weapon required "technical, psychological and legal training", which was quite logical. These justifications are not called into question. However, training can be ordered. The aim of this weaponry is the security of the police officer and involves training in the handling of firearms. It is not a question of a change of status or a salary increase, but simply of recognition of the duties performed by these officers and of their necessary security, in the same way as the inspectors and police commissioners. Minister, given the current situation, the level of alert in our country and the terrorist threats to our population and our police services, what fate do you have for police officers who exercise and represent the police order like any other inspector and police commissioner, but who cannot carry weapons and therefore have no means of defence in the event of an attack? Do you intend to legislate on this issue? Do you intend to allow them the training necessary for carrying weapons? If I defend this option, it is not with the aim of changing their status. This does not imply any wage increases or other benefits. I'm talking about a purely security purpose. For example, some officers may be required to carry out roadside checks. It is not a question of putting a weapon in the hands of anyone, but I think it is a question of seriously reflecting on the security conditions of the population and of the agent himself, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u145	Mr President, I have combined the answers to both questions. Police officers have limited police powers. The tasks assigned to them by law, such as road traffic, which is covered by municipal regulations, and punctual assistance to police officers, etc., were a priori, at the time of the provision, not of that nature to justify the use of a weapon or to endanger them. However, the circumstances and conditions in which the police work is carried out have evolved in relation to 2006 and 2007, the years in which the tasks of the police officers were redefined, on the one hand, and the armament of the staff of the integrated police was laid down. In addition to the particular case of a high level of terrorist threat, police officers, all degrees together, are now increasingly confronted with violent acts, as well as with reprisal risks. The question of the trade union VSOA, in French the SLFP, was therefore taken into account. In this context, a technical working group was set up with the syndicated partners, the representatives of the local police and the federal police and experts. On 3 December last, the Working Party drew up a series of proposals for the adaptation of the texts in force in order to improve the security of police officers. The amending texts are currently being prepared and will be negotiated with the social partners at the end of January 2016. The working group has therefore submitted a report and we will now turn it into legal texts. This will be negotiated with the social partners. Since these are drafts of legislation, the entry into force is conceivable in a few months' time. It is clear that current events have influenced the security concerns of operational police personnel. The reflection on the arming of police officers is, however, carried out in a serene atmosphere in order to avoid hasty decision-making and only justified by exceptional circumstances that we all hope, temporary. This is therefore generally concerned with the safety of police officers when carrying out the tasks legally assigned to them. Police officers will now be equipped with an individual armament similar to that of police officers, consisting of a firearm, a striking weapon (a truncheon) and a disabling medium (pepper spray). The basic training and standards of violence control training for police officers will be adapted accordingly and a transitional regime will be provided for police officers already in operation. All these aspects will be negotiated at the end of January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u146	Mr Minister, I am actually concerned, as you have said yourself, that, given the current exceptional circumstances, we are taking decisions too quickly before the substance of the case has been examined. So we should not consider proposing regulatory change too soon. You referred to it a moment ago: the powers have been adapted over the years. We must therefore consider carefully whether the arms trade is really necessary under the current powers. If that is the case, we must, as you say, pay a great deal of attention to this in the social promotion programmes. After all, these people were recruited in a different way once. Their selection, training and level of knowledge are completely different from the police inspectors and the higher degrees. We must pay a great deal of attention to this before those people are armed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u147	We will not give them a weapon unless they have received appropriate training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u148	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u149	I'm not sure I understand. It was in French, though. So your idea is to say we have to arm them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u151	Is the decision made? You have to go first to union consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u152	We have a working group comprising trade unions, local police and specialists. The working group made a report in favour under certain conditions. I am drafting a bill that will be negotiated with the unions before the end of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u153	This will then follow its course. So we could hope to have something in the course of April maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u154	It depends on the committee and the parliamentary work. My aim is not to delay but, on the contrary, to move forward with this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u155	I can only support you in this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u156	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 7638 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 7659 will be dealt with in the Committee on Health. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 7670 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 7694, Question No Question No 7695 and Question No 7695 7698 by Mrs Gabriels were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa's 7724 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u157	Minister, in the context of the terrorist threat, the German police reinforced the controls of people on the E40 shortly after the Belgian-German border. In just one week, the record of this increase in checks is rather positive: 70 persons wanted by the German justice system were arrested, including 12 criminals under arrest warrants. In addition, 9 persons with no more residence permits were able to be returned to their country of origin. However, I was able to read in the daily Aachener Nachrichten that the German authorities would have liked to carry out the checks on the former border post in Lichtenbusch, because according to the German Ministry of the Interior, the controls would have been even more effective on the said motorway area. However, in order to guarantee road safety, it would have been necessary to set up speed control panels on the Belgian side, which was unfortunately refused by the Belgian authorities. Minister, can you confirm this information? If so, can you explain why the cooperation mission was refused? Border controls are effective in Germany. Is it envisaged to carry out such checks in Belgium? If so, what can you tell us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u158	Mrs Jadin, normally, when my friend Thomas de Maizière asks for something, I want to find a solution; so here too. We can confirm that the Federal Police have been contacted by the German authorities. On the other hand, the wish expressed by our German colleagues was that a system be put in place with the help of the Walloon Public Service in order to reduce the E40 to a single traffic band at the border crossing of Lichtenbusch. The introduction of such a system would have had the impact of many kilometres of bottling, but would also have had a negative impact on road safety on this important axis. On the basis of these elements and after analysis, the Federal Highway Police issued a negative technical opinion for this type of device. Nevertheless, federal road police teams have been informed and directed to this issue. It was requested that a permanent analysis of the situation be carried out and that in-depth action be taken if necessary. With the entry into force of the Schengen agreements, systematic controls at internal borders have been abolished. As a result, the infrastructure at border crossings allowing these systematic checks has also disappeared. These controls are replaced by border surveillance, carried out by the integrated police services, both at the local and federal level. Let us not forget that Belgium, unlike its neighbouring countries, does not have a border police. This monitoring mission is part of the general police missions and is not subject to specific statistics. Depending on the circumstances, it may also be decided to conduct targeted border controls. This is the case, in particular, with the Medusa action that I have put in place and which is currently under way. At the moment, these are not border controls, as a temporary derogation provided for in the Schengen Code by announcement and report, but police checks inside the country of selected vehicles which are diverted, for example, to motorway parking. On 18 September, a mission was given to start such controls in the provinces of Liège and Limburg. These controls were supplemented from the outset by patrols on trains from Germany and the Netherlands and airport door checks on flights from sensitive countries in terms of transit migration. To this end, rotating capabilities of the railways and aviation police were released daily and replaced by personnel from the intervention forces of the provinces other than Liège and Limburg. Later, the controls were extended to the other provinces. The results of these controls from their start, on September 22, to November 29, 2015: - via airways: 84, - via the railways: 418, - via roads: 385, - by the sea: 63, a total of 950 people. These are undocumented refugees, i.e. they are not registered. The most common nationalities are: Syria (360), Iraq (177), Afghanistan (130) and Iran (56). I can also add that eight human traffickers have been arrested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-09-54-commissie-ic290x.u159	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive information. As far as the organisation of controls is concerned, I can understand that the motorway police have decided to take this decision, especially when we know this border area, which is still one of the most frequented in Europe. Nearly 20,000 cars pass by a day. It's not annoyance at all, especially since it only has two traffic bands. This would of course have seriously disrupted the already very problematic traffic in the province of Liège. I therefore fully subscribe to this. In the same way, I would say on the sidelines that if the Belgian State had put its motorway area in order at the border crossing, the Germans could have done the same. We've been waiting for this for more than ten years. Minister, the Régie des Bâtiments had done a good job at the time. I was able to personally see in the province of Liège the checks carried out and also the effectiveness of these checks. Information has been relayed to us for this purpose both by the federal police, which regularly communicates very positively in relation to this, and by the local police, who, I believe, are also sometimes involved in certain checks. Thank you for all your answers.
