ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u1	Mrs Demir, you have a question. 2369 on the national pool of port workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u2	Mr President, the question can be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u3	Mr President, I should like to put my question to the President-in-Office. I would like to turn 3290 into a written question, if I can get the Minister's answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u4	That will be put right, Mr Vanvelthoven. Question No 2407 by Mrs Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 2408 and 2409 by Mrs Winckel are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u5	Mr President, I propose that those Members who do not follow this work continue their activities elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u6	Mrs Demir, do not be distracted and focus on the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u7	Mr President, I am not being distracted, but I would like to argue in favour of some order in committee and respect for those Members who have tabled questions. My question is about the classical social dialogue in our country at federal level, where employers and trade unions come together to draw out the major lines of action for socio-economic life. In the coalition agreement we have written a whole chapter on the tripartite talks. We debated this for a very long time, so that the government would sit with the social partners. I've read that you're also fond of that idea, Minister Peeters. You've said that many times in the press. My question is therefore very specific as to whether initiatives have already been taken. In the past, a number of social agreements have already been concluded, each time without the presence of the government. Have you taken any initiatives towards a tripartite meeting? If so, how do the social partners respond to this? It is always better for them to come up with proposals themselves. When can we expect your plans in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Demir, I can make the answer rather brief. No concrete initiatives have yet been taken to regulate or organise a tripartite consultation, as is done in Flanders. You are well aware that we discussed this during the government negotiations. I will implement the coalition agreement, but no initiative has been taken at the moment. I understand, however, that the Group of Ten wishes to give every opportunity to autonomous social dialogue in the light of the provisions of the coalition agreement. At the appropriate time, I will also give effect to the coalition agreement in this respect. If we build and launch the National Pensions Commission, it is in fact a tripartite consultation, at a different level and with other agreements. Over the next few weeks and months, I will continue to do so, especially if you encourage me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u9	I have no doubt, Minister, that you will act very swiftly in this matter too. We shall hear the proposals in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 2843 by Mr De Vriendt has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 3003 question will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 3184 and 3231 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions. The same applies to Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the Mrs Fonck asked to wait for her questions Nos 3255 and 3256. Mrs Demir has withdrawn her questions Nos 3271, 3272 and 3273. Debates of the European Parliament 3290 by Mr Vanvelthoven, at his request, will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 3318 was also converted into a written question. This brings us to item 19 of our agenda, which is the joint question No. Mr Massin, No 3488 Question No 37, by Mr Hedebouw and No 3750 3763 by Mr Gilkinet. Mr Massin and Mr Gilkinet are no longer present. Mr Hedebouw is present, but he draws his question No. 3750 in. As Mr Massin is not present, his question No. 3716 withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 3729 is under arrest. This is a joint question under item 21 and we shall come back to that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u11	Minister, the government agreement provided for the abolition of the seniority allowance. The Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 provided that the unemployed person who had already benefited from this supplement would continue to be entitled to it in December 2014. In addition, a step-by-step abolition was envisaged for some of the most important categories, such as the victims of collective redundancies, heavy-duty workers or very long careers. However, my question concerns the first exception, i.e. people who received the supplement before 1 January 2015 but did not receive it due to circumstances in December 2014, for example because of illness or because they had temporary work. If these people return to unemployment, they will no longer be eligible for the allowance by the wording of Article 14 in the royal decree referred to above. It is difficult to justify that people out of control or, more importantly, because they were working temporarily in the month of December 2014, as a result of which they will no longer be able to claim this supplement in the future. However, such a supplement can make the difference between life and survival for these people. For example, a single unemployed person who is unemployed for two years and receives a minimum benefit has a benefit of EUR 1 085 with a supplement and EUR 953 without a supplement, or a difference of EUR 132 per month on a low benefit. For a cohabitant with the same duration of unemployment and also a minimum benefit, the difference even rises to EUR 250 per month. Mr Minister, will you correct this injustice and will the RVA be instructed, pending that, to continue to grant the supplement in these cases? By such cases, I mean the unemployed who fulfilled the conditions before 1 January 2015, but for some reason did not receive the supplement in the month of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u12	Mr Kitir, I am aware of the problem. An older unemployed person who worked in December 2014 and was previously unemployed cannot benefit from the transitional measure which provides that those who were unemployed in December 2014 are covered by the old seniority allowance scheme. I've asked the RVA to investigate how many people this could be. I will look into whether this question can be answered, which of course presupposes an adjustment of the unemployment decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you take the issue to heart and that you will take the necessary initiatives to find a solution. I will give you the necessary time and I will come back later to see what has become of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 3852 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u15	Mr President, Minister, on Monday 20 April we read in De Standaard that the Group of Ten decided not to increase the budget for external prevention services at work. However, we also heard that it might even be a reduction in resources. That's what's been said here and there. It seems as if a passport was issued to restrict the availability of bridge-retirement workers, which was recently approved. It is very difficult for our group to accept that these two basic rights should be at the expense of each other. In the context of workable work, which you are also in favour of, we should not give the signal that we no longer regard occupational safety, health prevention and well-being as priorities. On 23 March, the European Agency for Health and Well-being published a study demonstrating once again that investing in safety and health at work makes workers happier and more productive. These are matters that we can only welcome. External prevention services should play a greater role in this and not a smaller one. Especially in SMEs, their role is often indispensable because they do not have the necessary competences. I come to my questions, Minister. Will you ensure that the external prevention services for safety, health and well-being at work are not reduced? What will you do to increase the fight against accidents at work? Can you give us a specific explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kitir, the problem of financing external services is not only an important one, but also a technically very complex one. The Group of Ten was asked to draw up detailed proposals by the end of May to clarify their social agreement. I have also expressly asked the social partners to examine their proposals in the external services sector. I also assume that the social partners will take full account of their own concerns when preparing their proposal, as expressed by the NAR in the plan to address the strategy on well-being at work 2014-2020. The social partners have strongly opted for strengthening the added value of external prevention services. It is not only the definition of an improved framework that should allow external services to work more effectively, but also, of course, their role in promoting workable work. I therefore expect concrete proposals from the social partners on the financing of the external prevention services that these services must allow to meet these ambitions in all small and large enterprises. The final result must, of course, provide a high level of protection for all workers in the performance of their work. A proposal of national strategy on well-being at work for 2015-2020 will shortly be submitted to the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work, asking for a proposal of actions or actions within the framework of the strategic and operational objectives of the national strategy, in close cooperation with the general managements. It remains important for all or the main stakeholders to be involved in the commitment and implementation of the actions so that they become responsive and assume their responsibilities. Perhaps you will come back to this later, but I can tell you that we will give the necessary concrete consequences to everything I have just gone through.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u17	I would ask you, Minister, to deal with this matter urgently. The law published by the previous minister actually entered into force in 2016. The reason for this was to give the external prevention services ample time to prepare themselves for the rules agreed at that time. There is now the intention to reduce or modify this. We are now in the month of May. I hear in your reply that you have given the partners until the end of May time to reach an agreement. I trust that you will have to translate that into a royal decree, into implementing decisions. There's still a lot of work to do. Once again, the external prevention services do not know how to prepare themselves. I would like to ask for this matter to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I will be interviewing you on this very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u18	Minister, on 21 April we learned in De Oortend that Flanders will increasingly focus on several new high-tech initiatives to stimulate the economy and exports. However, no mention was made of the future of the manufacturing industry in Flanders. It was even said that it had lost its place in Flanders. Very many people in Belgium and therefore also in Flanders are employed in the manufacturing industry. When they have to be told by radio that their sector no longer has a future, they are very concerned. The same interview talked about the negotiations between America and Europe on the free trade agreement. We also have concerns about this. An internal trading platform with America has enormous advantages, of course, but not if this is at the expense of the standard of living of our employees. I also read in the coalition agreement that a job plan will be drawn up in consultation with the social partners. Special attention will be paid to employment in the industrial sectors. Because of this situation, I have a few questions. Do you think there's a future in our Belgian manufacturing industry? If so, what will this future look like? If not, how will you guarantee these people a new job? Are all our social rights guaranteed by such a new free trade agreement between Europe and America? Has work been done on the job plan with special attention to the industrial sector, as mentioned in your coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u19	Mr Kitir, like you, I am convinced that there is a future in our Belgian manufacturing industry. It will, of course, have to adapt to changing market conditions and innovate sufficiently in economic and environmental terms, but also in social terms. The keys to industrial policy, of course, lie primarily with the regional level. Nevertheless, the federal government still has a number of non-important elements in labour costs, taxation and so on. The manufacturing industry in Belgium faces major challenges: guaranteeing top quality, keeping small ranges affordable, quickly achieving large volumes, efficient management and sustainable business. I believe that our industrial model of production is in need of a thorough makeover with as few people as possible because of the high company costs. The cost structure is an important variable. Furthermore, the DNA of the factory of the future must look different. It must be aware of knowledge, cooperation and innovation. The regions of this country have taken various initiatives to provide the necessary answers in this context, with a great involvement or a very important role for companies and business organisations, but of course the workers' organisations are right to be concerned about this and have given or will continue to give their support. I am thinking of the action plan Made Different by Agoria and Sirris. My Flemish colleague Mr Bourgeois, Mr Muyters and others are working on this, including through the Flanders Make research centre. In Wallonia there is the Plan Marshall 4.0. The Walloon Government is also developing the necessary dynamics in this respect. As far as the free trade agreement and social rights are concerned, the agreement is concerned, in particular, with increasing trade among ourselves with a view to increasing economic growth, which in turn contributes to additional employment. The European Commission is now negotiating this TTIP with the United States on the basis of a negotiating mandate. I understand that there is a great deal of concern about this, but the social regulation as such is not the subject of the negotiating mandate, and therefore no compromises are being made in this area. With regard to labour legislation, I refer to the following specific sentence in the negotiating mandate: "The EU and Member States' laws, regulations and requirements regarding work and labour conditions shall continue to apply. I believe that this is clear and that there should be less concern about it. That does not mean that we should not follow this closely. As far as industrial employment is concerned, the wording of the coalition agreement is very clear: more generally, the government, together with all the actors involved, will pay particular attention to employment in the industrial sectors in the context of this employment pact. You know that after the adoption of the index jump, after the adoption of the wage standard and after the social elections, sector consultation can now start effectively. Yesterday, I spoke to all the chairmen of the joint committees and the mediators on this matter, in order to give maximum effect to the sectoral negotiations and to maximise employment in these sectors. As you know, we also need to discuss it with the regions. These debates are also in full swing. In short, I hope that, step by step, we can achieve a job pact across all sectors, and that we can create jobs here in Belgium together with the various regions of the island. Step by step the ingredients are given to make this possible. That is where we stand at the moment, and that was also your explicit question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you do not write off the manufacturing industry, as other people with a great responsibility unfortunately do. You refer very much to the regions and to the social dialogue. I can understand that, too. Everyone has a responsibility in this. I would ask you, however, to remain vigilant in this regard. Eventually, you're also Federal Secretary of Work. So you have a good overview of the whole country. Much has already happened in terms of labour costs and cost structure. There are also a lot of reductions in charges for this sector. You also indicated that it is partly about top quality, about reorienting companies and so on. Please also note that our employees have certainly always been the best students in the class in industry when it comes to flexibility and quality delivery. I therefore hope that you, from your position, together with the regions and the social partners, will take care of it and continue to support the manufacturing industry and come up with concrete initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u21	Mr President, Minister, at the start of the previous government, the social partners had concluded a number of partial agreements in spring 2013, including partial agreement 4, in particular on the modernisation of labour law. This includes flexibility tailored to employers, which deals with overtime and the annualisation of working time. In addition, there was a commitment to develop a framework for greater flexibility tailored to employees, namely a regulatory framework for sliding timetables or school bell contracts and a better status for part-time workers. While the first part was concretely completed and subsequently transposed into regulation, discussions on the second part continued. In the media, reference was made in the week of 20 April to a study by the Verwey-Jonker Institute, which shows that today's classic household model has been replaced by an income model of one and a half, with women working more, but mainly part-time. The traditional role pattern, in which women in particular take up family responsibilities, is maintained according to this study. One of the ways to better reconcile work and family life, where men would also take on more family responsibilities, and women who attach great importance to the family would still have the opportunity to work more full-time, is more tailor-made. This can be about homework, but also about more autonomy or customization in the work schedules. Where are the discussions between the social partners on this second part? Is there any prospect of an agreement on that? Otherwise, will you come up with a proposal for a regulatory framework for sliding timetables and a better statute for part-time workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kitir, in February 2013, at the request of the government, the social partners concluded an agreement on modernising labour law. The first part of that agreement, which concerned the flexibility of working time, was transposed into the Law of 17 August 2013 on the modernisation of labour law and on various provisions. The other parts of that agreement concerned sliding timetables and part-time work. This file was transferred to the National Labour Council. Several meetings were held on these different aspects of the modernisation of labour law in the Committee on Individual Labour Relations. Even though a strong pace of negotiation was followed and it certainly seemed to be moving timetables close to an agreement, things were blocking. For more than a year, discussions on the two shutters have been interrupted. The National Labour Council is waiting for a signal from the Group of Ten. As indicated in the government agreement, but also in my policy paper, I will ask the social partners to restart the ongoing discussions. Following their advice, I will also take the necessary legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you will be calling for the talks to be resumed. This can be a very important part of the combination of work and family life. I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u24	Mr Massin, the rule in this House is that when one is not there and has not been notified, the question lapses. I can say that in French too. The presence of a member is required. If he is not present and is not explicitly excused by a collaborator or others, I can only see his absence and delete his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u25	Mr President, I will therefore answer officially. Earlier, as part of my intervention on the bill, I said that I was late because a motion for a resolution was under discussion in the Public Health Committee. I indicated that, after my intervention here, I was returning to the Public Health Committee and that I would come back later to ask my questions. You'd rather take this excuse to blow up my question. I find your attitude cavalier. I repeat that I was leaving and then coming back to ask my questions. I don't think it's very elegant! It is not because a colleague (in this case, Mr Hedebouw) withdraws his question from the attached questions that it is automatic to consider that the other two members do not ask theirs. That's not right! We can do it nicely for everyone. We wait and those who are late ask their questions after. Or if the minister has to leave, questions are deferred, transformed into written or deleted questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u26	For your question No. 3488, I propose that the Minister provide you with the written answer directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u27	All right. That will allow me to have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u28	The same applies to Mr Gilkinet's question No 3763. I propose that you ask your question No. 3716.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u29	Mr President, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u30	Mr. Chairman, Minister, a few weeks ago, MCO Roux's pre-pensioners, a former glass factory closed last summer, had a bad surprise. In fact, the ONEM has recalculated the allowance for compensation for dismissal and the result is alarming for these workers. These former workers will lose up to 500 net euros per month. This aberration is not specific to AGC, nor to Charleroi because similar cases have been identified in Liège and Namur. Assimilated to severance pay, the compensation for dismissal derives from the reconciliation of worker/employee status. In the glass sector, it results in several weeks of additional notice paid by ONEM. In order to qualify, AGC Roux's pre-pensionees have therefore joined the conversion unit. Today, they are disillusioning because the ONEM has revised its method of calculation to establish the discount due on these allowances, with the result that the withholding at source increases from 17.5% to 50%. This method of calculation is rather foolish because these pre-pensioners will receive less than if they were unemployed. This interpretation is not in the spirit of the law. Minister, have you been warned by ONEM of this aberration, which has been the subject of articles in the press? Are you trying to solve the problem with the ONEM? Are you in consultation with the various unions that threaten to take action if the situation does not unblock?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u31	Mr President, my colleague, the compensation for notice (PKI) is calculated on the basis of the Royal Decree of 9 January 2014 on compensation for notice. In essence, the PKI is calculated by subtracting the employee's leave allowance from the leave allowance he would have received if the single status legislation as applicable from 2014 had been applied to the entire length of service, i.e. also before 2014. I think I can deduce from the question that they are candidates for the supplementary business unemployment scheme who have registered in an employment unit created by the employer in the context of collective redundancies. Where an applicant for an unemployment scheme with an additional business is enrolled in such an employment unit, he or she shall receive compensation from his or her employer equal to three months' pay. In most cases, it is for a worker much more than the leave allowance to which he or she is normally entitled. The ONEM reimburses the employer for the additional cost of the benefit thus granted to the worker. The Royal Decree of 9 January 2014 provides that, when calculating the PKI, account shall be taken of this benefit granted to the worker in addition to the leave allowance. Otherwise, the worker in question will receive twice the amount covering the same period, once paid by the employer and once paid directly by the ONEM. It is therefore obvious that the worker enrolled in an employment unit will receive a PKI lower than that received by a worker who has not registered. The latter does not receive the additional advantage which the former has enjoyed. To calculate the amount of PKI paid as a net non-taxable allowance, a theoretical occupational discount is calculated. In this context, in accordance with the above-mentioned decree, account shall be taken, depending on the family situation, of the amount obtained by applying the scale 1 or 2 provided for in Annex 3 to the Royal Decree taken in implementation of the Income Tax Code. To date, the ONEM has consistently applied the regulatory calculation model in the same way. However, it appeared from the analysis of the reported situations that strict application of these scales leads to too large a withholding tax. I confirm that the ONEM is responsible for examining how to introduce proportionality into the tax calculation method. This should lead to future compensation being based on a normal net monthly salary and to a correction for PKI paid since January 2014, as they were also entitled to a reclassification allowance due to their inclusion in an employment unit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u32	Minister, thank you. I welcome your efforts in this area, which is not simple; this is a very technical issue. Beyond that, I took note that you had instructed the ONEM to make changes and find a solution. They should be asked to hurry. Workers have been facing these difficulties since January. These are four months on which they have very important deductions. If an urgent solution could be found, it would help many affected workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, I would like to go back to the cacophony that was seen in the press in mid-April with regard to the figures and, in particular, what some have called the EUR 291 million in unemployment benefits unduly paid. In view of the interpretations and reactions that go in all directions, including among the majority, I have looked at objective facts, namely the annual report of the ONEM on unduly paid allowances. Mr. Chair, in the question referred to the Minister, I had taken up the important part of the 2014 annual report of the ONEM. I am obviously not going to read the whole of this official report. I imagine that every Member who spoke on this issue has taken the trouble to examine the objective facts. That being said, Minister, what a confusion! What a cacophony! I heard everything and its opposite. I've heard facts and proven numbers. I have heard completely manipulated figures between the supporters of the increase of cheaters, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the best control of cheating. In substance, the debate was summed up within the majority and among the various stakeholders in this dual version, which is obviously not on the same line. In view of this type of attitude, which seems to me at least to be a broad political manipulation of the figures, it seemed interesting to me to hear you and to hear through you the work and, above all, the evolution of the work, which has been carried out in recent years by the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u34	Mr. Secretary, I want to start at the beginning. I raised the dossier in Parliament in 2012. In my capacity as a Member of Parliament, I am doing my job, in particular, to read and analyse reports produced by the RVA. In 2012, one sentence from the 2012 annual report brought me to the problem. After that, the sentence was no longer in the report. After the problem was raised here in this House, the sentence I stumbled upon disappeared and was written by an official of the RVA. I quote: 'The increasing number of new recoveries and the increase in the balance still to be recovered are, according to the RVA, very worrying in budgetary terms.' This was the case in relation to the problem of wrongly paid benefits, irrespective of their origin, i.e. whether they are unemployment benefits, time credits, service cheques or so. That one sentence was in the annual report. On that basis, I asked Monica De Coninck a question in 2012. She responded as follows. I quote: "The cabinet of the Minister of Work, Monica De Coninck, confirms that the loss is incurred by the government. That's what the Minister said at the time. In fact, the Minister, together with Mr Crombez, said that more controls would be carried out. I have replicated that it was very good that more controls would be carried out because the problem is worse than we can estimate at the moment. It's not transparent either. It is important for this to be clarified here in committee. As a result, more controls have indeed been carried out. That's noticeable, too. After all, I have never claimed that the amount of EUR 290 million is an amount of 2014. It is indeed a cumulative amount. Nor have I ever opened the hunt for the unemployed. Nor did I say the word'social fraud' three weeks ago. I have just pointed out that the amount is increasing. Benefits unduly paid, irrespective of whether they are unemployment benefits or other benefits, are increasing. There are indeed more controls. In 2011, the RVA committed a total of EUR 93 million and in 2014 it amounted to EUR 140 million. It is important, of course, that we also recover the money after the checks. What do we notice? Minister, this is an important observation. In 2011, the recovery amounts to €65 million. In 2014, where more determinations and controls are made, the recovery amounts to only EUR 69 million. The difference between the collections in 2011 and the collections in 2014 is minimal, although controls have increased. I follow up on the file every year. I did that in 2015. Once again, it is a problem, because the amount is increasing. There are indeed more controls, but it does not make sense for the final, cumulative amount to increase. It should take off. There was then a storm of criticism. My conclusion would not be correct and populist. Certain parties were talking about social fraud, although I did not even say those words. However, no one answered the most essential question. I hope I can get an answer from you today. After all, Mrs Fonck apparently did not read the audit of the Court of Auditors. Mrs. Fonck, if you read the audit of the Court of Auditors, specifically about the amount of benefits recovered, you will read that the Court of Auditors...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u36	Mrs Fonck, I have the floor. I've had you pronounced, too. It's my turn. You will then read that the Court of Auditors also notes that there is a sharp increase in benefits to be recovered. Mr Minister, my question is very simple. After all, I don't want to play a well-being game. It is appropriate that you answer the following essential question. Firstly, how will we prevent this amount, which is growing sharply every year, from increasing further? Secondly, how will we recover the amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u37	Minister, there has recently been a debate, particularly in the press, on the recovery of unduly paid benefits from the RVA. The discussion arose as a result of the publication of the annual report of the RVA. However, on the basis of the report, a number of wrong conclusions were immediately drawn. It was assumed that it was only about stamp money. It was assumed that the problem is getting bigger and bigger. It was assumed that trade unions played a very bad role in payouts. I was pleased that your colleague Tommelein provided some clarity. In fact, it is about a greater reduction in the wrongly paid benefits, thanks, among other things, to the work of the previous government. Those who follow the report, which has been quoted a great deal, can see that EUR 33.4 million was unduly paid in 2010. Every year that followed 2010 we saw the figure fall. In 2014, we are talking about EUR 11.9 million. In this respect, it has been denied that the trade unions are ensuring that the invoice continues to rise. The work of the previous government, of which your party was also a member, Minister, continued to reduce the amount further. We cannot therefore talk about an increase in fraud, but about an increase in the successful controls to combat it. Some colleagues cited this dossier to question the role of the trade unions in the payout. There would be a cheaper and better system, but if one looks at some other European countries, one can see that such a system is simply much more expensive. As a result of this discussion, I have the following questions, Minister. Can you explain how the government interprets the figures in the annual report? Can you tell us exactly what is going on with the amount and the evolution of it? Do you have any plans to curtail or change the role of trade unions in this matter? What action will this government take to ultimately recover and reduce the wrongly paid benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u38	Minister, I am not going to take too long and will respond directly to the number debate. The figures certainly have a political content, in that sense, Mrs Demir, which you yourself are not very communicating about the fact that the 290 million is cumulative. Well done, as they say in politics! It's practical. The goal is made in the media. In terms of objectivity, it's a little bit on the limit. It would have been much more correct to take the annual rate. You didn't talk about social fraud, but you made a direct link with the unions. What benefit is it about if you link with the unions? If you make the link with the unions, you clearly take a political view that the problem is about social benefits. Let us not get carried away, you have clearly talked about social benefits. That's just wrong. That can and must be said. Minister, the 2014 RVA report puts forward a certain hypothesis on page 114 about the question to which these increases are linked. I quote: "The amount of new debts to be recovered has increased sharply in 2013 and 2014. This increase is mainly due to the better target group definition and an increase in the number of checks on service cheque undertakings. Mrs Demir, what do the trade unions have to do with the service cheque companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u39	Nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u40	That is the question that everyone in this committee is asking. It is, of course, a little more difficult to have the debate here than on television. However, I effectively expect the Minister to better determine the figures and, above all, to say what he and the N-VA want to do in relation to those service cheque companies. Should control be further increased or reduced, which will, of course, reduce the money to be recovered. The next discussion is about the role of the trade unions. Of course, we're not gonna find each other in that. Let's just take it back that historically, the benefits are a joint responsibility. The trade unions have sat together to build their own cashiers. Does the State now have to settle this so that it can be taken entirely out of the hands of the trade unions today? Historically, it comes from the hands of the unions. The same applies to the mutualities. In that primacy of politics, everything to the state, we cannot, of course, agree. I will end with a few questions, Minister. I ask you to correct the falsely quoted figures and to distance you from the statements made by N-VA Member, Mrs Demir. What is your position on the role of trade unions in paying unemployment benefits? What are your views on employers' contribution fraud and tax fraud? What are your views on attempts to reduce the role of trade unions in social dialogue and social security management?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give a very comprehensive answer. I hope that certain tendentious reports after my answer have been taken out of the world. After my reply, we will be able to see if that is the case. I can confirm that the amount referred to in the annual report of the RVA, which you have all read, is a cumulative amount and certainly does not relate only to unemployment benefits. It refers to various fees. Let me sum them up. Type 1, the granting of a retroactive benefit which is not cumulative with the benefits. It concerns, for example, the execution of a court ruling which grants the employee a retroactive withdrawal allowance, which requires the reimbursement of unemployment benefits for that period. This type of recovery represents around 18% of the total recovery. This is a situation in which the use of the technique of recovery cannot be avoided. Type 2, the recalculation of unemployment benefit for unemployed persons with an additional occupation after the tax assessment is known. Again, this is a retrospective correction based on the actual income of the self-employed secondary activity, while the benefits were first granted on a pre-estimated income. Type 3, the correction of errors and errors of social security. Type 4, deception or bad faith of the social insured. Type 3 therefore involves errors without fraudulent insight, which is the case with Type 4. The situations giving rise to recovery of types 3 and 4 are similar and are mainly related to the incorrect declaration of the family situation, the enjoyment of a financially non-cumulable advantage, the stay abroad or the follow-up of studies without prior authorisation from the RVA. Type 4 is clearly about undeclared work. As regards unemployment benefits, the amount indicated does not relate to errors of the RVA or of the payout institutions. It concerns, first, the granting of a retroactive advantage which is not cumulative with benefits, second, the recalculation of the unemployment benefit of the unemployed person with an additional occupation after the tax assessment is known, third, the correction of errors and errors of the social insured person and, fourth, the deception or bad faith of the social insured person. In order to avoid maximum undue payments, both the RVA and the payout institutions systematically and structurally cross all possible data databases. In 2014, there were 22 types of systematic cross-breeds of databases. This has greatly reduced the number of unjustified benefits. Given the time gap between changes in a database and its consultation, the RVA post factum carries out a second check on the basis of updated databases. The anomalies that are then identified lead to recovery. Moreover, the amounts circulating today are not new amounts. However, they relate only to unduly paid benefits. It is still a question of cumulative amounts. I would like to explain the EUR 291 million that we are talking about. It will of course be up to the journalists, who have coloured a number of things in the cucumber period. That was the case in the materials, by the way. The 291 million euros originate from, firstly, an unjustified accumulation of benefits with wages, an independent activity or illness; secondly, the intensified checks on the family situation; thirdly, checks on service cheque undertakings, as Mr Hedebouw has said; fourthly, recovery of provisional benefits from the sickness funds; fifthly, recovery of provisional benefits from the RVP; sixthly, recovery of sums from employers and compensation for damages resulting from non-compliance with the replacement obligation; seventhly, recovery of amounts from ex-employers for insufficient termination or cancellation fees; eighthly, recovery of amounts from beneficiaries of interruption benefits; and finally, recovery of amounts for various reasons which can normally be established only after the facts. In addition, the RVA transferred a cumulative amount of 118 million euros, of which 13 million euros in 2014 to the Administration of the non-fiscal collections. In order to recover these amounts, the RVA is dependent on the tax administration. There is also a cumulative amount of EUR 6 million to be recovered from the RVA abroad, which is an additional difficulty in itself. The cumulative situation of the claims at the end of 2014, to be recovered by the unemployment offices, amounts to 290 800 122 euros, an amount of about 118 million euros was transferred to the Administration of non-fiscal collections and 5.8 million euros were transferred to abroad. This gives a total of 414 million euros. The amount of EUR 291 million set out in 2014 is as follows. Firstly, 11.7 million is due to the unlawful accumulation of pay, self-employment or illness. This represents 8.4 % of the total amount of 291 million. Secondly, 36.7 million is due to intensified family control, or 26.3 %. Thirdly, there are 23.9 million or 17.1 % for service cheque companies. Fourthly, 16.7 million or 12% of provisional benefits to be recovered from the sickness funds. Fifth, 4.2 million in provisional benefits to be recovered from the RVP, which amounts to 3 %. Sixth, 0.4 million euro or 0.3 % of compensatory damages due to non-compliance with the replacement obligation, to be recovered from employers. Seventh, 4 million has to be recovered from ex-workers because of insufficient termination or termination fees and this amounts to 2.9 %. Eighth, 3.3 million must be recovered from recipients of interruption benefits, or 2.4 %. Ninth, there is 38.5 million or 27.6 % to be recovered for various reasons, which can usually be established only after the facts. The total growth in 2014 amounts to 104 million out of a total of 414 million. The RVA makes every effort to recover undue payments. Where possible, a 10% deduction is made on unemployment benefit. As the debtor is often not wealthy, payment plans are agreed if necessary. In the event of refusal of reimbursement, the RVA shall transfer the claim to the Board of Registration and Domains, which may then proceed to enforcement. The RVA will not remove these debts from the accounts until all hope of recovery has been effectively lost. This is the case if, in the last ten years, no repayment could be made if, according to the Board of Registration and Domains, the debt is not recoverable, if the debtor has disappeared, if the debtor has died and the estate does not allow the debt to be recovered and, finally, in the event of bankruptcy in the case of a legal person. The increasing debt rate of the population is a general social phenomenon faced by the RVA, as is the tax administration and private creditors. Thus, the fact that part of the rights established can only be collected with delay or never, is due to the fact that the debtor has insufficient funds to repay or can only repay in small instalments, but it is also the result of the previously outlined prudent policy of the RVA to remove debts from the accounts; 38,44 % of the outstanding amounts are more than five years old. They leave that open for ten years, yet a very long period. Hence, the cumulative amount takes that size. Should you say that after five years you would delete that from the books, 38.44 % of that amount would no longer occur. I would like to formulate a number of decisions. Firstly, without drawing anyone's attention, it is wrong to make it appear that the amounts to be recovered relate to a single year of operation and, above all, that it would be exclusively about wrongly paid payments to the unemployed. Second, the amount to be recovered at the end of 2014 is a cumulative amount covering several calendar years. Thirdly, this amount is limited to a limited proportion of unemployment benefits unduly paid. Fourthly, both the services of the RVA and the payout institutions work extremely efficiently: both perform systematic and maximum preventive controls. Fifthly, increased and better coordination of controls detects more fraud, for example in relation to family situations, and thus increases the proportion of benefits to be recovered. Sixthly, the payout settings are fully responsive. If they do not carry out the compulsory preventive checks and pay undue payments, they will be fully responsible for the recovery or charge of these sums. Seventh, the increase in the amount of recovery decisions taken in 2014 amounts to EUR 104 million. If you sell that at EUR 11.5 billion, it is of course still a large amount of money, it is only 1.27% of total RVA expenditure. Again, 104 million is still a serious amount, but it amounts to 11.5 billion in total. I come to my final point. Each euro must be recovered. The RVA is fully committed to this. In any case, maximum recovery shall be made. In my view, the approach taken by both the RVA and the payout institutions is the right one. In the long term, this will lead to less fraud, because the chances of getting caught have increased, precisely because of the stricter approach. I assume, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this answer will clarify many things and that the journalists who write about them will now do so with knowledge. I hope that this debate will end in the cucumber period and that we will continue to work on it now, with the RVA and the payout institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. We are going to the replies and I would ask that they be kept rather short.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u43	Minister, that seems particularly clear to me! We could not know the figures in detail, but a person who had read the ONEM report was able to draw the same conclusion as you, i.e. that this amount of EUR 291 million concerned not only unemployment benefits but everything else. Mrs Demir, I have heard your attempt at retropaedaling, but be honest, admit that this EUR 291 million was about unduly paid unemployment benefits! You even continued, "since this is proof of the inefficiency of the unions involved in the payment of replacement income." You've manipulated the numbers grossly! It's obviously your favorite sport to yell "down the unions!" As much as I can imagine it's sexy on the electoral level, I think it's sad about political responsibility. Moreover, fraud is obviously unacceptable, be it social or fiscal. In this regard, we must continue our interventions - recognizing that the services have worked on this throughout these years - whether as a preventive measure, because that is how we can combat fraud, or through controls. Minister, if this matter is not directly within your purview, since it concerns your social and fiscal colleagues, it is also the responsibility of the government as a whole to continue to invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u44	Of course, Minister, everyone has an interest to defend here. I am defending the public interest and would like to return to the audit of the Court of Auditors, on which you have not said anything. As you know, the Court of Auditors, the highest authority in this country which controls the accounts, says in its audit that the RVA is facing a sharp increase in benefits to be recovered and that the information disclosed is not sufficiently transparent. Furthermore, the audit shows a whole evolution of outstanding balance debt securities. A division is made between unemployment benefits, including costs and interests, cumulatively on the date of 31 December 2013. I never said that's one year from now. I've always talked about a total amount. The audit of the Court of Auditors goes even further. He makes a division between unemployment benefits and other benefits of the RVA. For unemployment benefits, including costs and interests, the total amount in December 2013 is EUR 312 million. For other benefits from the RVA, this amounts to EUR 50 million. The total amount is therefore EUR 362 million. That is a lot of money for me, Minister. The answer to the question whether you will recover it, whether we are actually going to do something about it, is unclear. The Court of Auditors' audit report goes even further and has also checked with the payout institutions, which I have not yet discussed. Those who read the audit correctly will find that the payout settings will never be able to give back the money they have to give back. There is a financial risk there, which is even increasing. That's all in the audit. I'm not making that up. It is also stated in the audit that the amounts to be returned, the amounts finally rejected by the RVA, will then be taken into account by the payout institutions. In 2009, this was still EUR 20 million, already EUR 30 million in 2013, so in four years' time that amount has increased enormously. The Court of Auditors itself says that this is a financial risk. You, the Minister of Work, say here that the RVA is doing its best and that we are doing well. Then I wonder why the Court of Auditors gives a warning in its audit. As a Member of Parliament, I have a fucking duty to submit this audit here. Perhaps it would be useful for the people of the Court of Auditors who carried out this audit to come here and explain this dossier. I have still not received an answer from you today, Minister, except for the answer that you will not do anything, that the EUR 300 million is not really much money and that it is about EUR 1.7 million. For me, that is a great deal of money, Minister, and any euro you claim back may, as far as I am concerned, be put into social policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which was certainly clear to some of us, if you want to hear it. Mrs Demir, you assume that some people are here to defend their own interests or the interests of someone else and that you are defending the public interest here. However, it was you who said that the unions should no longer make the payments, but that the RVA should do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u46	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u47	It's in front of me. I'm not done. No one's interrupting you. You said it was the fault of the payout institutions and that the authority came better with the RVA. In the Minister's reply, I have not heard at all that the payout institutions are to blame for this. You like to refer to the audit. If an error or an error of payment is made by a payout institution, they themselves guarantee to meet it. It's not the RVA that comes back to that. Mrs Demir, you compared the situation with a well: every day it rains and comes with water. So I will also talk about a well, perhaps you will understand. If there was 15 centimeters of rain in the well the day before yesterday, 10 centimeters of rain yesterday, and today it's raining 5 centimeters, it looks like the day before yesterday there was only 15 centimeters of water in the well, 25 centimeters yesterday and at the end of the drive 30 centimeters. We started with 15 centimeters and at the end there is 30 centimeters of water in the well. Well, that does seem more than that. However, if we look at the number and share of the years, we see that it is a reduction, but we must want to see it. I hope that, in the public interest, you will stop telling falsehoods and open your eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u49	No one in Parliament claims that undue benefits should not be recovered. However, you focus on one particular group and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u50	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u51	I'm very calm. You're the only one on the committee chasing themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u52	Mr President, this is one of the paradoxes of the figures put forward by Mrs Demir. If it wishes to see the money that needs to be recovered melt, it is enough to reduce the controls. There's a paradox there. The more checks are made, the more money will be collected. So, Mrs Demir, if you really want to see that figure melt down, you will have my support in reducing the number of checks. We also see this paradox, for example, with fines on the road. The more police people are deployed and the more controls are carried out, the more money will be collected. We can keep that point a little clear. That is my first point. Secondly, I am not going to turn around the pot, with regard to the question of money and the composition of families, suffering in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia is becoming terrible among families who depend solely on allowances. Four hundred euros a month! I see around me more and more people looking for alternatives to this misery, not to die! That's what this is about, Mrs Demir. It's about 400 or 700 euros. It's about 300 euros to live. This is not about EUR 2 000 and EUR 2 300.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u54	I got the Minister's figures. It's about la composition de famille. You know very well what this is about. I'm telling you, it's gonna blow. People can't handle those controls and the pressure to live in misery anymore. Belgium is one of the richest countries. Mrs Demir, you should not be surprised that with the politics you conduct you are pushing people more and more to the abyss. Your party really needs to be careful with that. I warned you. I do not consider such figures to be intellectually correct in public opinion. You manipulated the figure of 290 million. You have talked about social fraud and trade union organisations, and now it is rétropédalage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the various nuances and explanations can make things clearer. It is true that there is deeper and more thorough control, with data mining and others. This makes everything more transparent and reveals the wrong amounts of money received. The RVA and the payout institutions have made efforts in recent years and these efforts need to be continued in full. As far as reclaimability is concerned, the metaphor of a well that fills up when it rains every day is a good explanation for the accumulated amounts. However, one must be able to recover them. This is about people and situations where it is not obvious to recover sums. They will be recovered. They include 10% of people who receive further benefits. We are making the necessary efforts there. I think it's good to bet maximum on the reclaimability. However, with all due respect, one cannot poach a rock. One cannot ask people who cannot repay to pay back. We have to take that into account, and that is what is happening. The preventive aspect, in particular that every effort is made not to pay undue benefits, is very clearly present. I hope that this debate can continue. As far as I am concerned, the RVA and the Court of Auditors are allowed to come here and explain. This is part of the organisation of the work of this committee. I'm not gonna interfere with that. However, I cannot get rid of a certain impression. Of course, that is not the fault of the Members concerned who are doing their job here. However, an atmosphere has been created to point the finger at certain institutions without giving them the necessary amounts or elements. I believe that we need to frame this correctly. If there are other elements, there can be a serene debate without creating an atmosphere that does not deserve this dossier. We are certainly not going forward with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u56	Minister, it is not my custom, but today I want to give you the testimony of a lady to illustrate the question of persons with disabilities who are excluded from the benefit of integration allowances. This is the case of Maria, revealed by a report by RTL-TVI. Twenty-seven years old, married and mother of two, with a vision impairment of 95% since her very premature birth, she is unemployed. A month ago, she discovered that she had been excluded from receiving the integration allowance since 1 January. Her story shows us her full of courage. Seven years after completing her studies, she had still not found a job. Her state of health has deteriorated sharply, as she has developed epilepsy. However, she applied for a suitable job, with no results. Since its first year of unemployment, it had received integration allowances amounting to EUR 420 per month and an integration allowance for disabled persons of around EUR 500 per month. This amounted to a total of just under 1,000 euros per month. She decided to resume her studies in September 2014 and obtained an exemption from the ONEM in order to be able to study while continuing to receive her unemployment benefits. She then turned to a higher level course. In October, his state of health worsened. She was forced to stop everything. She has been ill since 31 January 2015 and returned to the labour market on 1 February. It was at that time that she found that the ONEM had excluded her because of the time limitation of the insertion allowances. If it was excluded, it was because the controls of the ONEM were tightened. From now on, it is considered to be "permanent inapte au travail". This woman who is excluded from unemployment is not entitled to assistance from the CPAS or to an income replacement allowance in relation to her husband's wage of 1,400 euros. You're gonna tell me this is a personal case. That's right. At the same time, this story is also about 1,500 other people with disabilities. By the end of January, you had indicated that a solution would be found in the next few days in the form of a replacement allowance for persons with disabilities who are unable to earn at the ONEM, who are therefore in the same case as that lady, Maria. On March 18, 2015, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities reported that several hundred of these people have not received any financial compensation at this time despite your public commitment. These situations are very special, with people who, despite their heavy handicap, bravely try to continue to pass the tests and to get involved. Minister, in the face of these humanly very difficult situations and following your promise of January, what is the situation today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure which has had the effect since January 2015 that a number of integration recipients lose their entitlement to benefits is not an exclusionary measure but an end of law for those who have reached the prescribed maximum period of compensation. This measure is general and applies to all integration recipients, whether valid or less valid. I will provide you with a detailed note setting out the measures we have taken, but the most important thing now is that people who are unable to work because of a pre-existing disability and who have reached the end of the law for integration benefits, because the duration of unemployment exceeds three years, are entitled to benefits from the DG People with Disabilities or to a review of their disability benefits in the case of persons who have already been taken care of by this administration. DG People with Disabilities deals with the cases of people who already benefit from a disability allowance. It deals with other cases at the request of the persons concerned. If there are individual cases in which medical assessment is problematic, the ONEM is prepared to review them in consultation with the DG People with Disabilities. In addition, following an inquiry by the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities, a consultation meeting will be held to reconcile the methods of assessing the earning capacity of the ONEM and the DG People with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u58	There's a clear signal from you. I don't know if I can get the details of what you announced to me. I guess you didn't say everything orally. I am, of course, waiting for this meeting to be held in order to reach an agreement between ONEM and the DG for people with disabilities and for concrete solutions to emerge from it. We are in humanly very difficult realities for a very small number of people who have a heavy or even very heavy disability. I hear your willingness to reach solutions. I welcome this because the months are beginning to pass and these people are in sometimes extremely difficult realities. Thank you for keeping me informed on the evolution and solutions that will be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u59	Mr President, Minister, on February 24, 2015, the National Labour Council (NTC) issued Opinion No 1925 concerning the system of employer groups. In this opinion, the CNT takes a position in particular on the extension of the validity of the Royal Decree of 8 July 2014. As a reminder, the Act of 12 August 2000 was recently amended with a view to making the use of a group of employers more flexible and wider. The law of 25 April 2014 allowed for a group of employers to take the form of an ASBL, AISBL and/or a foundation and for the recruitment of all types of workers to be possible. This Act entered into force retroactively as of 1 February 2014. This date was fixed by the Royal Decree of 8 July 2014 which provides for the procedure for granting authorisation to groups of employers to place workers at the disposal of their members, by the Minister of Employment. The Order itself entered into force on 1 February 2014. However, the provision on the procedure for granting the abovementioned authorisation will cease to have effect on 1 July 2015. The new groups of employers established on the basis of flexible and extended legislation were initially to be regarded as pilot projects. In its Opinion No 1925, the CNT took the initiative to request a one-year extension of this provision. I asked you my question on March 20th. It has two different components. On the one hand, what assessment should be made of these pilot projects? I cannot imagine an absence of evaluation. On the other hand, does the government intend to extend the validity of the Royal Order of 8 July 2014 as requested by the CNT? In the meantime, you have issued a press release. I imagine that you will answer me in the same direction by adding details, particularly regarding the evaluation of the pilot projects of the employers' groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u60	Dear colleague, you are right, the draft royal decree to extend the royal decree until 1 July 2016 was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 24 April. It is now submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. In addition, I draw your attention to the fact that the law imposed a legal form on groups of employers, namely the form of economic interest groups within the meaning of the Code of Companies or ASBL within the meaning of the Act of 27 June 1921. On the other hand, the law did not provide for the legal forms of AISBL and foundation within the meaning of articles 27 and 46 respectively of the Act of 27 June 1921 referred to in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the last aspect of your response (ASBL, AISBL and foundation), I will allow myself to verify. Indeed, if you did not mention the law of 25 April 2014, I have the impression that we are discussing two different laws. We are both talking about groups of employers. I will re-check this first part from a legal point of view, because I think it appears there, as well as at the level of the Royal Decree on the basis of the law. Moreover, it is good that you have extended the period of validity of the Royal Decree until 2016. I do not know whether a review has been made of the pilot projects. In addition, employers' groups are very positive initiatives that we absolutely need to support. I hope that we can take a long-term structural approach. If we have an additional year, I hope you will have time to conduct an evaluation of these pilot projects by 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u62	Mr President, Minister, L'Avenir recently highlighted the practices implemented by at least one temporary agency and some companies that offer job applicants to take a day of unpaid work as training. This day often follows a presentation of the company, tasks to be performed and various tests (interviews, questionnaires) sometimes spread over several days. In the eyes of the candidates, this day of delivery is understood as a test for engagement, while the acting agency officially describes it as a training. The qualification of "stage" or "test" is obviously not without consequence from a legal point of view. Thus, in 1991, the Labour Court of Liège had established "that the pre-employment test must be characterised by a lack of utility, profitability or productivity. The required test can be productive but this productivity must remain random and cannot be a profitable activity for the company." The Court added that "the duration of practical tests and/or tests must be limited to the time necessary to assess the candidate's abilities". By presenting these services as training, both the acting agency and the undertaking concerned clearly intend to escape these constraints imposed by the case law. However, it is difficult to see how the performance of an extremely repetitive task on a production chain, for a whole day, contributes to the training of a candidate. L'Avenir cites the example of a company that would have taken advantage of the free labour force of nearly 200 candidates to condition food under cover of training. The financial gain for the companies that organise these days can therefore be relatively substantial. This is almost the equivalent of a full-time worker's work for a year. Minister, do you consider the practice described above to be legal? Are you aware of complaints from individuals who have been subjected to such a practice? What was the result of these complaints? To which body can the workers concerned be contacted? Is there no need to clarify the law or to inform the temporary agencies and the workers concerned of the legislation in force in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u63	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, in the context of a recruitment procedure, several tests may be imposed in order to verify whether the candidate has the knowledge and skills required for the function concerned. Both the doctrine and the case law are unanimous on the fact that if the selection procedure includes productive work as a practical test, the duration of these tests must be limited and proportional to the capacities which are to be verified and cannot constitute a profitable activity for the enterprise. These rules apply irrespective of the qualification given to this pre-employment test and this is all the more so when the qualification does not correspond to the reality of the facts. Training is defined as the acquisition of all theoretical and practical knowledge in a technique or occupation. In principle, in a selection procedure, there can therefore be no question of training a candidate before his/her appointment, but of checking his/her abilities. If training is really necessary for the performance of a function prior to any commitment, it should be carried out within the framework of vocational training, in particular through the arrangements set up by the Regions. Moreover, in the case of temporary work agencies, all the provisions of the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the provision of workers to users must be complied with. To date, my services are not aware of any complaints in this regard. The persons concerned can always apply to the Control of the social laws of my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u64	Minister, the answer is very clear as to the illegality of the practice. I hear that there has not yet been a complaint on the subject, but I have no doubt that on the basis of your answer, they will be able to arrive! The aim is not to specifically sanction a creative employer at the expense of job seekers but simply to stop such practices, which are also symptomatic of the state of the labour market. Indeed, highly motivated workers are looking for a job; they are willing to accept a lot of things to find one. They are sometimes abused by unscrupulous employers. In addition, they may face endless harassment as a result of decisions taken by your Government, which takes too little account of the state of the labour market, particularly in some subregions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u65	Minister, the collective labour agreement No. 98ter of 24 February 2009 amending collective labour agreement No. 98 of 20 February 2009 concerning ecocheques will enter into force on 1 June. The new Convention amends, in its annex, the list of environmentally friendly products and services that can be acquired with eco-cheques. From now on, their use for the purchase of soda machines, accessories and refills for these machines will be allowed. If we can question the advisability of such a decision in terms of public health, it is above all the political contradiction that I will highlight. Indeed, in Belgium, "Soda Stream" enjoys a de facto monopoly on this type of soda machine. It appears that this enterprise is located in territories illegally occupied by the State of Israel. We therefore have, on the one hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs who publicly believes that the permanent expansion of the colonies is a clear obstacle to peace in the Middle East and thus advocates the establishment of a label "Made in colonies" and, on the other hand, a Minister for the Economy indirectly promoting products from the same occupied territories. Minister, I therefore wonder about the logic and consistency of this government, which seems to use dual language as it speaks to the world or to its fellow citizens. It would therefore be possible to return to greater coherence and to review the list of products open to eco-cheques before its entry into force in order to avoid financing, even indirectly, any policy which would be contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u66	What's the situation? Ecocheques find their basis in interprofessional social consultation. The eco-cheques system has been introduced by the social partners who sit on the National Labour Council following the 2009-10 interprofessional agreement. The agreement set the trading envelope at EUR 125 net for 2009 and EUR 250 net for 2010. To facilitate the conversion of this amount into purchasing power for workers, various measures were envisaged with the creation of eco-cheques. It is within this framework that collective labour agreement No. 98 concerning ecocheques has been concluded within the National Labour Council. In developing an eco-cheques scheme, the social partners wanted not only to safeguard the purchasing power of workers, but also to create added value in environmental awareness. In order for consumers and traders to be able to determine with certainty which products can be purchased with eco-cheques, the social partners have drawn up an exhaustive list of products and services which can be paid with eco-cheques. This list is annexed to CTC 98. The CTC does, however, provide for regular assessments to examine the desirability of adding new products. Such an assessment may be made on the basis of proposals made by the competent authorities or other concrete proposals for adaptation, transmitted directly to the National Labour Council no later than 30 June of the year in which the relevant evaluation takes place. The decision to adapt the list is ultimately up to the social partners. This is done after taking all the necessary information and precautions. The government is in no way involved in this decision-making process. In the last evaluation, which was recently carried out, the social partners decided to add to this list the purchase of soda machines, accessories and refills for these machines. This product is placed in the waste management component. These soda machines have an indisputable ecological impact in this area. You mention the fact that this modification of the list could benefit SodaStream. As I have just said, this adaptation of the list has been decided by the social partners who sit on the CNT, including three well-known trade union organisations. These organizations are committed to promoting the development of a trade that respects workers' rights and human rights in general. Their intention is certainly not to favour a company that does not respect these rights. In addition, SodaStream is not the only company marketing these machines, although it is true that it holds a significant share of the market. Finally, according to articles in the international press at the end of 2014, SodaStream is currently dismantling its production unit located in the colonies. It would close its doors in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u67	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer, which focuses more on the decision-making process around these eco-cheques and the list than on the international issue and the inconsistencies in your speech and that of Mr Reynders. I will not fail to question the social partners on this issue as well. Nevertheless, I find it difficult to believe that the government has no influence on a mechanism it finances. That raises a great deal of questions for me. In any event, I will not fail to question the social partners on this issue of SodaStream, knowing that indeed this company has almost the monopoly on the sale of soda machines in Belgium and that the possible closure is planned in 2015, but that by then the machines will continue to be sold. The planned move does not reassure me, since SodaStream intends to settle in the valley of the Negev where we expel Bedouin communities. I do not think the situation is much more favourable, even after this move. I continue to believe that it is a shame that the government is not taking its responsibilities on this issue. I will not fail to ask you again about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u68	Question No 3908 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u69	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on the supervision of workers' health provides in its Article 85(3) that the workers' health records cannot be destroyed but must be transmitted to the SPF Emploi in the case of files which must be kept for a period of more than 15 years. These records are related to specific worker exposure risks. I am thinking of asbestos, but it also concerns other products. Article 86 of the Royal Decree also provides for the same type of procedure in the event of the termination of a section or department of medical supervision of work, so that the files are not lost. Minister, are these paper and electronic records actually archived in the Employment FPS and readily available when physicians are confronted with a patient who has a pathology potentially associated with occupational exposure to toxic products? Under what procedure can they have access to it? I'm not asking this question to bother you, but because doctors regularly receive patients who suffer from a serious disease, for which one must look if there has been exposure to a toxic product. It takes hours to trace the patient's career path and find the products to which he or she may have been exposed. This is a major issue in the diagnosis. Today, the evolution is different because there are electronic records. What about the paper files? What about the articulation of the Employment FPS with physicians? This is an important public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u70	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Fonck, as legislators did not impose a time limit, the Labour Welfare Control Branch established as a general rule to archive these files up to the theoretical age of one hundred years. After this period, the file is destroyed. If a doctor facing a patient suspects a pathology possibly related to a professional exposure, he or she may contact the social inspector of my department directly for the management of this medical archive, respecting the principle of medical secrecy. With regard to the application of article 86 of the Royal Decree, in the event of the cessation of the medical activity of an internal service or of the department of medical supervision of an external service for prevention and protection at work, the medical officer of the service must contact, not later than three months in advance, to settle the question of the final destination of these files. For example, if there is a department with an outsourced medical department, health surveillance will be redirected to this outsourced department for prevention and protection at work to which these medical records will logically be transferred. If a company comprising a medical department permanently ceases its activities and these are not taken over by another company, the medical records will be transferred to the archives of my administration. Any access shall be governed by the same principles as those set out above. I also have general information to clarify other elements, but I believe I have read the essentials to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-06-54-commissie-ic164x.u71	Minister, thank you for this summary. I'll read the documents you'll give me carefully. I think there are loopholes. This can be seen with patients who have been exposed to toxic products. In this regard, I will come back with very concrete proposals. Some aspects could be improved, including the intervention of the attending physician. This would allow for health monitoring during and after working life. Medical care would then be improved. Excuse me for holding you up for a few more minutes. Thank you very much.
