ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic283x.u1	I have a whole list of questions that are postponed or converted into written questions. The first question to be dealt with is the question No. 7227 on TTIP by Mr Gilkinet. Mr Gilkinet, can you take my place as chairman, because I have to leave? Mr Gilkinet, you are the chairman of this committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic283x.u2	Mr Minister, last July, the European Commission responded to a Euro MP's question about the validity of collective agreements under the ISDS clause, one of the key and legitimately contested components of the draft Transatlantic Treaty (TTIP) under negotiation between Europe and the United States. In its reply, the European Executive indicated that these agreements do not pose a problem until they discriminate according to the nationality of the employer or investor. However, the Commission also stated that it wished to add a new article (a "operational provision") which would confirm that "governments will have the right to take measures to achieve legitimate public policy objectives on the basis of the level of protection they deem appropriate". While this message seems reassuring at first glance, it leaves a doubt that the agreements concluded between the social partners within the National Labour Council (CNT) respond to this "operational provision" and thus to the future capacity of the social partners, in the event of the adoption of the TTIP, to continue to conclude collective labour agreements. Minister, do you confirm the risk that the future ability to enter into collective labour agreements will be affected by the signing of the TTIP? Do you think that the specific operational provisions envisaged by the European Commission in the ongoing negotiations for the conclusion of a TTIP will be sufficient to avoid this? What are the consequences of this risk in relation to the ongoing negotiations? Is there no need to change the negotiating mandate given by the Federal Government to the European Commission and to call on the Commission to put an end to these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic283x.u3	The situation is special. There are only three parliamentarians. The president normally is you, Mr. Gilkinet. But I can give you an answer, of course. I can read my answer or I'll give you the written answer now. Maybe it'll be faster?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic283x.u4	Minister, I consider the written note to be sufficient. I'll take a look at it and re-examine you if you need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic283x.u5	I suggest that the three attached questions Nos 7382, 7405 and 7417 which were discussed in detail during the debate we have just had on the policy note be turned into written questions. Do you agree, Mr. Gilkinet? Yes. What about Mr Spooren? Yeah, that's perfect.
