ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 6776 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smeyers and No 6955 Mrs Grovonius' 7135 shall be deemed to be withdrawn. Mrs Lalieux is currently chairing a committee of her own. Mrs Lanjri is on her way, as is Mr Hellings. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 7565 was postponed. I call Mr Metsu.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u2	Mr President, this is almost a topical question. Yesterday in the newspaper the question appeared whether this was a fact, yes or no. I'll ask you that question in a minute. Mr Secretary of State, the message was somewhat disturbing. It was about the presence of terrorists or potential terrorists in Belgian asylum centres. They would have entered the country through the flow of refugees and one of those persons, an IS supporter, would have stayed in Bovigny's reception centre in Luxembourg. The two brothers Talal and Anwar Ammar also entered Belgium via the refugee stream. Are these allegations about terrorists on Belgian territory true? What procedure do you and your services use as soon as it appears that such sujets are located in Belgian territory, in particular in reception centres? What are your plans to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u3	Mr Metsu, I also read that article. For security reasons, I cannot really go into your question. I can say that the article is not correct. At least part of it isn't right. To say that four terrorists have come to Belgium as asylum seekers and are in asylum centres is not right. That's not the information I have. The names in the article are not names that appear on my asylum lists. If they were in Belgium, or have not been in Belgium, they certainly have not applied for asylum here, or not all four, let me put it this way. There are certainly not four who have applied for asylum here. I don't know where that information comes from either. At first she was apparently in an American or British newspaper, and that has been taken over. It's completely unclear to me. Of course, I lit my light right away. There are certain procedures in our asylum centres to identify such cases. Soon, in my answer to your question, I will explain how the task force works. Such cases are being spotted. It's not true that those four terrorists are in our centers, that's not right. Those names don't add up, especially for all four, let me put it this way. It is true, however, that in general, and apart from those cases, I was told that there are some radical individuals among the asylum seekers in the centres. For every stranger who is known for radicalism, asylum seeker or not, it is considered on a case-by-case basis what measures I can take within my competence. Where possible, the residence status of such persons shall be revoked or refused, the person concerned shall be detained for the purpose of his repatriation and shall be subject to an entry ban. I have already taken several initiatives to tackle this problem. For example, an additional screening of asylum seekers is carried out by both military intelligence, state security and federal police. In addition, the legislation was strengthened so that the Commissioner-General can withdraw or refuse protection status for a person who is a threat to public policy or national security. This law was approved by the Chamber in July and entered into force in September. In addition, the Security of the State and the Military Intelligence Service carry out an additional investigation for visa applications from preachers or imams. Finally, last week, asylum and migration task force Radicalism was established and a first meeting took place. One of the main tasks of this task force is to follow up on this type of case. So we are working hard on it, but it is not the case that four terrorists have applied for asylum in Belgium. That information isn't correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u4	That's good, because unfortunately it would be a scoop. I hear you're emphasising not all four. I will not go into more detail, but I assume that those files will remain very strictly and strictly monitored by you and your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I already threw a little fish out of this last week. The Netherlands, our northern neighbours, has been using the 1F procedure for asylum applications for years. 1F refers to the corresponding article in the Geneva Convention, which states that asylum seekers for whom there are reasonable grounds to believe that they have committed crimes against humanity and human rights violations are not entitled to protection. Because Belgium is faced with a large influx of inhabitants from the war zone, we too must be careful not to let in people who have committed unacceptable acts during the conflict in their home country. Will the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless take over the 1F policy of the Netherlands? Why is that? Why is that? How many 1F decisions has the CGVS taken over the past five years? If possible, I would have liked to have a split per year and per nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u6	Mr Metsu, according to Article 55.2 of the Foreign Law, it is for the CGVS to apply Article 1F in accordance with the definition laid down in the law and with the relevant national and international case law. This means that in Belgium, too, people are excluded for whom there are serious indications of a crime against peace, a war crime or a crime against humanity, for example, torture, a serious non-political crime committed outside the country of refuge or acts in violation of the objectives and principles of the United Nations, such as terrorism. It also applies to those who encourage or participate in the facts set out in Article 1F. The decision to exclude by the Commissioner-General shall be subject to an appeal before the Supervisory Board in full jurisdiction. According to the law, the Commissioner-General decides independently in asylum files. The draft law, which was adopted in committee earlier this year, did provide him with additional instruments to enable him to exclude or withdraw the statute even in the event of a threat to society or national security. I also spoke with him about the Dutch approach of, for example, Iraqi officers under Saddam. The Commissioner-General is currently examining whether the same approach as we have in the Netherlands is possible. In the Netherlands, the 1F procedure is used in advance in such cases, because it is assumed that the chances are very high that senior officers who served under Saddam were at least aware of the crimes, war crimes and torture. I will give you an annual overview of the number of decisions taken on the basis of Article 1F of the Geneva Convention. A detailed overview per nationality can be provided to you later. The question was only submitted yesterday and I have not been able to receive that information so quickly. In 2015 there were 6 1F decisions so far, in 2014 there were 11, in 2013 28, 11 in 2012, 21 in 2011, 13 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, in 2007 there were 8. I'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u7	That's all I can ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u8	This question builds on our discussion last week on the important task force for Radicalisation. You mentioned the creation of this task force. The aim would be to monitor the phenomenon in the context of the flow of refugees and the reception provided by Belgium for asylum seekers and refugees. Another article in Het Laatste Nieuws of 23 November 2015, about the presence of terrorists on Belgian territory who entered this country through the refugee flow and even ended up in reception centres, according to the previous question, shows that the task force is absolutely necessary. The sooner the better. Is that task force already in place? How many times did she get together? What is the composition of the task force? Can you go into more detail about its purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u9	The asylum and migration task force Radicalism came together for the first time last week on Thursday 19 November 2015 and will do so weekly. A next meeting is scheduled for Thursday 26 November 2015. In the task force, the Cabinets of Justice, Home Affairs, Defence and Asylum and Migration are represented. The following services are also available: the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, the Council for Foreign Affairs, Fedasil, the OCAD, the Crisis Centre, the FPS Home Affairs, the penitentiary institutions, state security, the military intelligence services and the federal police. The Task Force brings together experts from different services on the issue of radicalised aliens...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The main objective is to obtain a correct picture of these radicalised individuals and these incidents, to take concrete measures and to provide for a coordinated follow-up. A roadmap will be drawn up within the task force. It will map and, where necessary, optimise the flow of information on radicalised aliens between the various services. Contact points shall be designated within each department. An efficient flow of information and an integrated approach between the various services is crucial for the follow-up of this type of case. The task force will therefore discuss individual dossiers on a case-by-case basis and draw up a plan of approach and follow-up for each person. Incidents in reception centres or targeted against reception centres that can be linked to radicalism are also mapped and discussed in the Task Force. Further issues can be addressed in the Task Force: the optimisation of the screening of asylum seekers, training and awareness training for asylum authorities in cooperation with the intelligence and security services, security level centres and any measures to be taken, the creation of a Radicalism hotline, follow-up of the problems of radical imams and hate preachers, etc. There's a lot of work to be done. It's not like nothing happened. The flow of information is optimized in this way, and that was necessary in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, according to an article in De Morgen on Saturday 7 November, there would have been 2 000 Dublin cases in our country, asylum seekers who have started or are registered in another country. This means that they will in principle be returned to the country where they were first registered, the country which should also deal with the asylum application. In that article, you stated that the Dublin cases would be transferred to two specific reception centres in order to be transferred from there to the Member State responsible for examining the application. You also said that not everyone answers that question. Mr Secretary of State, the newspaper article mentions 2 000 cases. Are those 2 000 cases at the moment? What period are we talking about? Has this been the case since the recent crisis, or does it relate to a longer period of time? To what extent do you ensure that DVZ's order to leave the territory is correctly executed and that the person concerned is transferred to another Member State? How is that made enforceable? What arrangements have been made with the other Member States for the takeover? How is this monitored? How many of the 2 000 asylum seekers have finally responded to the proposal to be transferred to a specific reception centre and taken care of there? How many of these 2 000 asylum seekers have actually returned? In how many cases was this voluntary and in how many cases forced? After all, that is important. Many people applying for asylum should not be allowed to do so in our country. A clear signal has been given that, for example, if they have submitted an application in Spain, Hungary, Greece or Italy, the application will be dealt with there, unless it concerns people who have been agreed on at European level, but that is another group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u11	Mrs Lanjri, this is an estimate of the 10 000 files to be checked in the Eurodac system. There is indeed a delay due to computer problems between 21 July and the beginning of October at the Department of Foreign Affairs. DVZ estimates the number of files at 20 to 25 %. The number in De Morgen refers to those files. Apart from those files, of course, there are the old applications and the new applications that have been submitted. They are not yet included. Those files are currently being processed by the Foreign Affairs Office, but DVZ cannot yet say exactly how many files are covered by the Dublin Regulation. Since 16 October, persons who receive a decision 26quater with an FGM and are required to go voluntarily to the responsible Member State are assigned by Fedasil to an open return centre in Jodoigne or Arendonk, where specific work is being carried out on the return of Dublin cases to the responsible Member State. The person in question must present himself within five days. If the person does not show up within that time limit, Fedasil's authority to provide reception shall lapse and the Dublin Office may inform the Member State responsible that the person in question has been in hiding. In that case, the transfer period shall be extended from six months to eighteen months. The Sefor department is responsible for the follow-up. Those agreements are now the result of the Commission Regulation 118/2014 of 30 January 2014 amending Regulation 1560/2003 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation 343/2003 laying down the criteria and instruments for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged with one of the Member States by a third-country national and are more specifically addressed in Articles 7, 8 and 9 on the implementation of the transfer. These are simply the directives we apply and apply to other European countries. Since 26 October, a total of 44 persons, including children, have been allocated to one of these specific reception centres. To date, eight persons, one woman with seven children, have been taken care of. The Dublin follow-up through the OTPs is currently in full swing. Instructions were sent to all reception centres, but the implementation of course takes a little longer. The answer to the question was probably drawn up when you submitted it. I'm sure there's more by now. Moreover, it is not obvious to implement the new structure immediately, given the large influx. The statistics, which I give, refer to the start-up phase and are not complete, as not all the centres have already implemented everything. At least 44 people were involved in two weeks. Finally, a Somali woman with seven children has indicated their willingness to return to Switzerland voluntarily. She is currently being taken in Arendonk. In reply to your question, it can be said that we currently only have partial statistics and that an overview can only be given at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u12	How many of the 2 000 asylum seekers have been effectively repatriated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u13	I can't tell you that right now. I don't have that answer with me. If I understand correctly, the figure of 2 000 is an estimate. Some 20% to 25% of the 10 000 asylum applications are covered by Dublin, because it can be proved that they have been to a particular country and have thus been included in Eurodac. This is evident from the statistics of recent years. There was a delay of 10 000 files, because there was a problem with Eurodac in Brussels. 20% to 25% of those 10 000 are 2 000. That's why that number was mentioned in the paper. We are now making up for this delay and giving 10 000 files to Eurodac. It's still not finished. As far as your question is concerned, how many of these have since been effectively repatriated under the Dublin Regulation, I will try to provide you with the relevant figures today. I can give you the figures of the number of Dublin acquisitions that we ourselves received and the number of transfers from last year to October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u14	Thank you for the answer, Mr Secretary of State. I understand that the new system of sending the asylum seekers concerned to a particular centre is in full development. However, I have to say that two thirds, eight out of 24 asylum seekers, do not answer the question. I hope that will improve, all the more so because only one third of the asylum seekers concerned are asking to register at one of the two open return places, two thirds are not, and we do not even know how many of the third asylum seekers who do address the question actually leave. So there's a big problem. We need to work on the return. If asylum seekers do not have the right to asylum in our country and have to go to another Member State, we must give that signal clearly and really leave the territory. That is why the question is important: how many of the 2 000 or 2 500 asylum seekers have actually left so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u15	I can't give you the figures for the 2 000. I can give you the Dublin figures to and from Belgium for 2014 and 2015 until the end of October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u16	Do you have any figures on who actually returned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u17	The figures of the acquisitions and transfers are the figures of effective movers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in an English letter dated 21 October, addressed to all refugee candidates, you were trying to discourage them from applying for asylum or continuing their asylum procedure in Belgium. The information you distil there is little nuanced and incomplete. Sometimes even what you're making is not legally correct. Without making this clear, you are implying that the restriction of residence to five years for recognised refugees was already applicable, whereas at this stage it is only a decision in principle of the Council of Ministers of 23 October and that no bill on this subject has yet been tabled on the benches of this committee. Mr Secretary of State, can you explain to me the purpose of sending such a letter to all Belgian refugee candidates? Can you tell me when you will be tabling the bill in this letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u19	Mr President, Mr Hellings, I understand your point. However, asylum seekers who enter now will not have a decision on their file tomorrow. Currently, procedures take a lot of time. It takes two or three months before the first interview. The bill will be tabled in the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. Normally, the measure will be implemented before the decision concerning them is taken. That's the reason. I understand the remark. If I now tell the asylum seekers that they will no longer be granted an unlimited right of residence as recognised refugees, but that this will be for five years, this will be true, because by the way they will have been given a decision, this will have been introduced. The decision-making process takes a very long time. This is actually a virtual discussion, but I do understand the remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u20	What is the purpose of a mail such as this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u21	The aim is to inform asylum seekers. Many of them have misconceptions. They think that Belgium is El Dorado, that Europe is El Dorado, that they will get direct work, a nice apartment and so on. There is a reason why so many Iraqis return voluntarily before their asylum application has been dealt with. There are three flights a week. There's a reason for that. Those people are very disappointed. The smugglers tell them that in Belgium and Europe they will have three thousand euros cash a month, a car, an apartment, that their family will be able to come after three or four months. That's not the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u22	I understand. If the objective is to fight against smugglers, it is legitimate. But these people seek asylum if they are threatened or otherwise threatened in their country of origin. This is the first reason why Belgium is a signatory to the Geneva Convention. We will return to that when you table the bill, which we will analyze in detail. Then we can discuss it together. It is quite difficult for people fleeing a country at war, mostly Syrians and Iraqis, to sign up for a logic of integration, by learning the language and looking for a job, if they live with this sword of five-year-old Damocles. This is a government decision that will be implemented by law: every five years, the refugee candidate and the refugee will have to prove that they are in danger in their country. However, the situation in Syria and Iraq is not close to settling both geostrategicly and humanitarianly. We'll discuss it again. The refugee candidates must be given proper information. In this case, you go a little faster than the music.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, we discussed your policy letter last week. I honestly said that I think it is positive that so many additional places have been created in such a short time. I'm sure you'll have credit for that. However, we are now finding that the number of asylum seekers waiting in queues for the DVZ is re-emerging. There are again problems, in the sense that a large number of them no longer get convocation. If one does not get convocation, a note to return on a certain date, then one also has no right to pre-care. Apparently, that's already the case. So you're de facto putting people out on the street. On the other hand, it is even seen that people who had received a notice of convocation, if they applied, will receive a new notice on another date. That way the waiting times are enormous. The group of people who can't get into pre-care is the worst. Pre-care is currently full. That's a problem. If people do not get convocation or even with a convocation, about a hundred people would not be able to go into pre-care, then that means that these people are dependent on initiatives by citizens or voluntary organisations, but even those on their gums. They say they're out of options. With winter at the door, these are scenes that we absolutely must avoid. I think you have that ambition, too. We have said that what we have experienced in the past with people who had to sleep on the streets, when you were in the opposition, you never want to see it again. I know that a lot is already happening, but there really is a very concrete problem once again. What initiatives will you take to further extend pre-care? I have heard that you intend to ask the Council of Ministers for 120 additional places. I fear you may contradict me if 120 places will not be enough. It is better that, as in the beginning, there are more places that may not be filled out, if not necessary, than that we should put people out on the street. How long is the waiting time at the moment? Last week it was about ten days, but I see that certain groups get a new convocation every time they offer themselves. What will you do to reduce waiting times? Is it necessary or necessary for an additional reinforcement of the DVZ to reduce waiting times? Of course, I also realise that it is about a complete chain and that, if applications have been dealt with by the DVZ, those people should be able to go to normal care afterwards. That is why I would also like to insist on the creation of sufficient shelters so that people registered with the DVZ can also immediately enter the shelter. In this context, I think it is very important to proceed very quickly with the dispersal plan, also to ask the municipalities to make additional efforts. My question is what is the current state of play on the distribution plan? In the meantime, has any decision been taken on sanctions? When could this dispersal plan be introduced? In a first stage, this could be done on a voluntary basis, because a royal decision has to be drawn up anyway, which can be delayed for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u24	Mrs Lanjri, you also expressed your concern last time. One has to have room, of course. I find the comparison with 2010 absurd. Since 2010, 10 000 places have been created, in four years time. I have created 10 000 in four months, and in the next few days we will probably cross the border of 30 000 reception places. The highest number ever in Belgium was 24 000. With all due respect, I think you can make that comparison difficult. Anyway...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u25	I've said I appreciate your efforts. Last week we put you on the spot. At the time we said that we do not want people on the streets. That's the point. It's not about what the government has done now, with you as a leader. That is not comparable. A lot's happened. But we don't want people on the street. That is what we have said in the past and what we are saying now. We must also try to make that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u26	Since 7 September 2015, the federal government has been offering pre-care in the site A in WTC III for 500 candidate asylum seekers. As of 1 October 2015, an additional capacity of 500 places has been opened in site B. A total of 1 000 places are now available for candidate asylum seekers. Never in the past of this state pre-care for candidate asylum seekers has been organised. Due to the fact that the number of occupied places in the WTC fell sharply from October, with only 88 places occupied of the 1 000 available places, 250 places were decided on 20 October 2015 to be available for buffering for Fedasil. Later this number was raised to 500 buffer shelters in WTC III, site B. At the beginning of November, the influx increased sharply again. We reacted immediately to this. We have cleared the buffer shelters again for pre-care. At the moment we are looking with the Red Cross to see if we can put an additional plateau into use, so that 120 more places can be created. Again, we don't own that building. The owner has to agree. The owner's insurance company has to agree. Then that can open. The general climate is not immediately to make another building with 125 places or another building with 1 000 places available. I am working on it, but the climate is not really up to it, let me put it this way, to motivate private owners of large office buildings to do something that never happened, namely to accommodate 100 or 1 000 asylum seekers. I have already sent a letter to the mayor of the city of Brussels. In this letter I asked him to provide possible sites where extra pre-care places can be organized. I have not yet received an answer to that letter. Indeed, the waiting period for new applications is increasing and some asylum seekers currently have to wait until 9 December 2015 to register their asylum application. That is a long time and we are trying to limit it to the maximum. You say that there are also people who get a convocation, come back and then get a convocation again. That's right, but why is that? Because we always choose to give priority to the most vulnerable. When families with children are presented without convocation, people who are badly on their feet, the most vulnerable, we immediately include them in our asylum network. This decision has always been widely supported by the Chamber and the government. So far, it's always been successful. So if you read and hear stories about families with children lying in the cold, it's about people who might be late in the evening. If they apply to the DVZ for asylum, they will all receive shelter. The story that the DVZ would now refuse Afghans, another story that is being told, is also wrong. The group that was allowed in yesterday for registration were most Afghans, but a lot of families with children. Are there a lot of single men among the Afghans? Yeah, that's right. Two months ago, it was the Iraqis. Now it's often Afghans who come alone and say they're underage, but that's another problem. It may be that we are due today and have a convocation before 9 December, but if there are 210 or 250 beds on that day, it depends on the capacity that day, and there are 250 families with children that day, then they will be given priority, even if they have not yet had a convocation. That is the policy that we have always maintained so far. I also think that this is the right policy, but I would like to hear alternatives. I'm always open to that, you know that. A flow from pre-care to reception is only possible if these places are also effective. To date, my cabinet, in good cooperation with Fedasil, the reception partners, Defence and Civil Protection, has made every effort to offer each asylum seeker a place of refuge. The distribution plan is in the government's lap for finalisation. This plan is expected to be adopted shortly. The first places will be indicated as soon as possible. The distribution plan must be worked out in a KB and this must also go through a certain legal process. I believe that the existence of a distribution plan and its publication will in itself give the municipalities an incentive to take immediate action. I believe that many municipalities will not wait for publication in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, we believe that weaker families with children, sick or pregnant women should be given absolute priority. At the same time, the possible side effects must be taken into account. Suppose a single person had a convocation and arrived on December 9th. At that time, when all the shelters are taken, he gets a new convocation after ten days. The same phenomenon can continue to repeat itself in this way. Someday, that single guy's file is gonna have to be registered with DVZ, right? I understand that at certain times a postponement is granted. However, it must be borne in mind that this may mean that some people stay in pre-care for a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u28	Mrs Lanjri, that is purely virtual, because until now that has never happened. Only in recent days has there been a problem in which people with a convocation will be re-convoked. As of tomorrow, convocations will be handed out again. I forgot to mention that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u29	That's good. Mr Secretary of State, I understand that near the Foreign Office you will not immediately find a building in which 500 to 1 000 people can be accommodated, but it is possible in other places. A call was launched to the municipal authorities. For people who still have to wait ten days, pre-care can be organised in other places in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. That could be part of...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u30	We must have access to these places.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u31	That's right. They must be created.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u32	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u33	We really need to make sure people don't sleep on the street. That's the idea. As long as that happens, this means that we are best... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u34	(...) two thousand pre-reception sites. We must also find owners who wish to rent. With many owners, that desire is over, and that also applies to many mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u35	I did not say that these 2 000 people should be taken in one building; they can also be divided up. If you are now using excuses for not letting anything happen again, or if you are now saying that no one is willing to do anything else, then I think you are also suggesting things wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u36	Mrs Lanjri, can you conclude your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u37	I'm just saying it's getting harder and harder. If you don't know that, I suggest you make some calls yourself. All suggestions remain welcome. Not only do I like to hear suggestions about what I could do, but I am much more inclined to follow these suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u38	I've already passed on my suggestions to Fedasil. If you wish, I'll email you that information again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u39	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-25-54-commissie-ic278x.u40	Well, I am doing a lot of work behind the scenes, and I will continue to do so. So it's not true that I wouldn't offer any solutions.
