ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u1	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I will outline the facts again, but I assume they are well known to you. Many years ago, on the night of 15 to 16 March 1946, if I am not mistaken, the first Iron Tower was dynamized in a cowardly nocturnal attack. That was 70 years ago next year. You know the Iron Tower was built with money from former front soldiers. Thousands of Flemings wanted to remember their sacrifice in that Belgian canal. The current monument has since been declared Memorial of the Flemish Emancipation and therefore has a special significance for Flanders and for the Flemish Emancipation. Until today, the perpetrators of the cowardly dynamization of the first Iron Tower were never actively tracked down, let alone tried. There is still a lack of clarity about those perpetrators, clients and their motives, and also about the way the investigation was conducted at the time. The file continues to cry out for clarification. This year, very recently, we have heard Paul De Belder, the chairman of the Iron Pilgrimage Committee. On the occasion of the next fiftieth anniversary of the new tower, he sent a call to all of the perpetrators' relatives to open their cards, to provide clarification. I'm quoting him. Now that the performers of the undoubtedly ordered dynamitation have all died in all likelihood and rest in peace, I would ask their children and grandchildren in all serenity to pass on the information they have at their disposal. That is also a very fair question. As you know, our group has already put forward a proposal on several occasions to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify this, but I am aware that there is very little desire in this House to really establish a committee of inquiry. However, I have recently heard your party colleague, my colleague Brecht Vermeulen, argue in favour of having a university or a scientific institution carry out a scientific study in order to clarify matters. Indeed, historical research has been carried out on behalf of the government on certain aspects of the country's past, most of which are sensitive aspects of history. I am thinking, for example, of two different draft laws in two different legislative periods on the implementation of a scientific investigation into the persecution and deportation of Jews in Belgium during the Second World War. Another example is an investigation conducted by SOMA into the murder of Julien Lahaut. This research was also funded by the Federal Secretary of State for Science Policy. Eventually, this resulted in a publication, in which the perpetrators and the backgrounds of that murder case could be mapped out. That file was effectively unveiled in that way. I shall therefore come to you, Madam Secretary of State. We still prefer a committee of inquiry because it has the powers of a judge of inquiry and therefore has much more possibilities to bring out the truth. I understand that this must be supported. When I hear my colleague pleading for a historical study because this is of historical and moral importance, I would like to support his question with this interplay in order to have that scientific research carried out effectively. Madam Secretary of State, will you take an initiative, as your party colleague Vermeulen proposes, to order and finance a scientific study on the dynamization of the Iron Tower?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u2	Ms Pas, SOMA is integrated as operational management into the General National Archives. In this way, we want to meet a legal obligation and the scientific research will be secured. After all, the institute will be able to count on the support of the much larger General Archive. It goes without saying that the continuation of the scientific research of SOMA, the Study and Documentation Centre for War and Contemporary Society, is important for the spiritual climate of our current society. I would also like to remind you that I wanted to underline my personal confidence and support for the Centre with an additional funding of some EUR 300 000. In your question you also refer to the problems of the Jews in Belgium during the Second World War. Of this amount, EUR 75 000 will be earmarked for the organisation of an exhibition on Jewish presence in Brussels during that period. You yourself have already mentioned that SOMA has carried out and carried out excellent historical research, including the murder of Julien Lahaut. That has indeed led to a publication. In this sense, an investigation into the dynamization of the first Iron Tower in 1946 is indeed an interesting project. The institution has the expertise to bring such a study to a successful conclusion. I therefore support Mr Vermeulen's call for this to be done. I can tell you that following his public appeal in the newspaper of 12 November last, the director of SOMA has already contacted him to express his interest. They have already had an exchange of views on how such an investigation could be carried out. Whether the Belgian universities want to be involved is part of the further discussions. I look forward to the outcome of the discussions between Mr Vermeulen and the director of SOMA. I would also like to mention that the site of the Iron Tower in our country is one of the most important monuments that refer to the Great War. On 14 February 1987 he was named Memorial of the Flemish Devotion by decree. Since 1998 he has also been included in the list of the United Nations as an International Peace Centre. Next year it will be exactly 70 years since the tower was detonated. I therefore believe that this is an ideal opportunity to bring out the true facts. Genuine scientific research, as we know from SOMA, is indeed preferable to a committee of inquiry, partly because those involved in the attack on the Iron Tower, possible perpetrators, clients, witnesses and observers of that time may no longer be alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I have not received an answer to one specific question which concerns the financing of this specific research. You say that SOMA has already taken an initiative itself. My question was what initiative would you take and whether there was a timing attached to it? Next year is indeed 70 years ago. It would be nice if things could be done by then and if you could announce that you will make a specific amount available. In order to support you to your fellow Members in the budgetary negotiations, I will put forward a motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, and Science Policy, responsible for Large Cities, added to the Minister of Finance, - whereas next year in March it will be 50 years since the first Iron Tower was dynamized; - whereas this monument as Memorial of the Flemish Community has a special significance for Flanders and for the Flemish emancipation; - whereas there is still a haze of secrecy surrounding the perpetrators of this criminal act, their sponsors and their motives; - having regard to the appeal made by the Chairman of the Iron Pilgrimage Committee to the survivors of the attack to open up the picture on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the attack; - having regard to N-VA-Kamerlid Brecht Vermeulen's call for a scientific study on this attack; - whereas, in the past, historical research has been financed and outsourced several times by the Government and the Secretary of State for Science Policy to scientific institutions on certain sensitive aspects of Belgian history, calls on the Secretary of State for Science Policy to provide the necessary financial resources in the short term to carry out a scientific study on the dynamization of the first Iron Tower and to take an initiative to outsource this study to a scientific institution or to one or more scientists." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, in charge of the Big Cities, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, [[-]] Whereas in March of next year the 50th anniversary of the blasting of the first Tower of the Yser will be commemorated; - Whereas this Memorial of the Flemish Community is particularly symbolic for Flanders and the Flemish emancipation movement; - Whereas a veil of mystery continues to surround the perpetrators of this criminal act, their sponsors and their motives; - in view of the call by the President of the Pilgrimage to Yser to the descendants of the perpetrators of the attack, asking them to reveal the truth on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the attack; - in the light of the request of Mr Brecht Vermeulen, Member of Parliament for the N-VA, to carry out a scientific study on the attack; - Considering that in the past the Government and the State Secretariat for Scientific Policy have already on several occasions financed and entrusted to scientific institutions studies on sensitive events in the history of Belgium, Requests the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy to release in the near future the financial resources necessary to carry out a scientific study on the blasting of the first Tower of the Yser and to take an initiative to entrust the study to a scientific institution or to one or more researchers." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Patricia Ceysens and Leen Dierick and by Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Johan Klaps. A simple motion was tabled by Patricia Ceysens and Len Dierick and MM. Benoît Friart and Johan Klaps. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u5	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in recent months, the Polar Station Princess Elizabeth, which you yourself recently recognized as being of importance to the scientific research and international influence of Belgium, has regularly been making the headlines as a result of a dispute between Mr Alain Hubert of the International Polar Foundation (IPF) and BELSPO. Last April, a report by the Finance Inspectorate first pinned budgetary manipulations in the head of the IPF, also strongly criticized for his day-to-day management of the polar station. Last summer, the Belgian State also announced that it had commissioned the International Polar Secretariat (and thus BELSPO) to organize the next Belgian campaign at the Princess Elizabeth Polar Station. This decision, together with your decision to review the functioning of the polar base and the role of the IPF, did not appeal to the President of the IPF. Alain Hubert announced in August 2015 his intention to prepare a competing expedition and brought an appeal against this decision before the Brussels court of first instance. On 21 October, however, the latter confirmed your decision by prohibiting Mr. Hubert from going to the Princess Elizabeth polar base, obstructing its operation or attempting to manage it remotely. Finally, on 18 November, equipment was reportedly stolen or at least taken from the Princess Elizabeth polar station. The press reports that Alain Hubert is the instigator of these robberies. Among the stolen equipment, the press refers to vehicles, fuel and communication devices. Madam Secretary of State, have you asked for an investigation to shed light on the events of November 18th? What follow-up do you intend to give them? Can you confirm unequivocally who owns the stolen material? Are the events of November 18th likely to jeopardize the 2015-2016 campaign? What steps are being taken to ensure the success of the current scientific expedition?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Cassart, I can confirm that an investigation has been requested in order to shed light on the events of 18 November. The events that took place at the Belgian polar station on the night of 18 November were partly observed by the cameras. The authors tried to disable them, but they forgot one. Since, in the absence of a police force or authorized officials, genuine findings are not possible in Antarctica, the chief of the expedition, Ms. Montanari, immediately launched an investigation, drafted a report and drew up a list of alienated material. On the same day, a unilateral application was lodged with the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance requesting that the order of 21 October prohibiting IPF and Alain Hubert from going to the polar station or preventing the mission in any way be complied with and that a periodic penalty payment be imposed. By order of 19 November, the President of the Court granted these requests and held that the alienated material should be returned within 24 hours. IPF filed a third-party objection against this order. Since the 24-hour time limit was not met and the equipment was only partially returned, an order for payment was served on IPF. As soon as the judge has ruled in the third-party opposition proceedings and if this third-party opposition is rejected, I will proceed, following the order for payment, to the recovery of periodic penalty payments, if necessary through an enforceable seizure. Consideration is also being given to the possibility of initiating criminal proceedings. However, procedures relating to property rights are still under way in various courts. The ambiguity in this regard stems from the lack of transparency in billing at the time. The equipment had once been purchased by IPF, but mainly on behalf of and/or with the money of the Belgian State. With regard to the events of 18 November, the issue was not so much the ownership of the equipment as the judge's ban on IPF and Mr. Hubert from going to the polar station or preventing the Belgian mission from proceeding. This prohibition was therefore tantamount to prohibiting them from taking the material present on the polar station for the performance of a public mission. In addition, fuel and food, among other things, were taken away, which could have had an impact on the safety of the Belgian team on the spot. Thanks to the above-mentioned legal measures taken through a number of operational measures of the Polar Secretariat, in collaboration with the on-site team, the 2015-2016 BELARE campaign is currently underway and all scientific projects can be carried out. Additional measures have been taken. They aim at the additional supply of food and medical equipment, the maintenance and repair of equipment, as well as the reprogramming of the scientific program now scheduled for January 2016 rather than November 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u7	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for taking stock of this matter and for taking the necessary steps to ensure respect for some of your positions, which I can also share. I hope that this dossier will be followed up. On the other hand, I am pleased that the 2015-2016 campaign was able to begin and continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, federal cultural actors have also suffered the consequences of the level 4 alert week. Particularly in Brussels, concerts and shows were cancelled, museums and cultural centres closed, cultural activities abolished. This has undoubtedly led to financial losses and major organizational problems for all these structures, some of which are already very financially weakened. Moreover, there is no guarantee that this situation will not happen again – which exacerbates this finding. It therefore seems useful to me to consider exceptional support measures for these sectors. I would point out that, for traders and for the Brussels horeca sector, it was announced by the competent minister that the social contributions relating to the fourth quarter for the independents of the Brussels-Capital Region would be carried over by one year, that there would be a possible demand for a reduction in contributions in the event of a decrease in income and that there would be a possibility of partial or - for some - total exemption of contributions. Madam Secretary of State, do you already have an assessment, even partial, of the losses caused by Level 4 alert week for museums and various federal cultural actors? Do you have any data in this regard? Secondly, what do you think of the possible creation of a compensation fund or support measures, whether tax or not, for cultural actors? Finally, what measures do you intend to take to support the cultural sectors after this week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u9	Mr Cheron, I have not yet received an overview of the loss of income for the week in question, but it can be expected that it will mainly affect the organizers of the two major exhibitions, notably the Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium and the Royal Museums of Art and History. The Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium would have suffered a financial loss in terms of school visits. For the Royal Library of Belgium, I am able to provide you with more concrete information. The loss of income is estimated at some €15,000. These include revenues from the sale of reader cards, the organization of guided tours and workshops, the store and cafeteria revenues, and the rental of conference rooms. Added to this is the degradation caused to the image which is for the moment difficult to encrypt. In the case of the State Archives, at the three sites in the Brussels Region, only the Anderlecht Archives were closed in Level 4 week for inventory reasons. The other sites on Rue du Ruysbroeck and AGR2 in Haesendonck were closed on Wednesday, Thursday, 26 and Friday, 27 November. The closure of the reading rooms at these sites resulted in a maximum loss of 15 to 20 unsold player cards, for a total amount of about 400 euros, which is negligible. I expect to receive more information in the near future from the other ESFs and will send it to you in writing. Let us hope that such closure measures are no longer necessary. Any measure of support for cultural actors must first be examined and formulated by the cultural sector itself. I would like to inform you that I am also competent for federal scientific institutions and that other actors are active in the field of culture. We've received a few answers from other FSEs, but I'm waiting for all the results before I give them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the information you have provided me and for the information that is announced in writing. How can specific support for these institutions be considered on the basis of the recorded data? I am not just talking about an immediate financial point of view. Let us hope that this remains within reasonable limits. I'm a little more worried about the issue of image. It may be necessary to have a reactive campaign to restore some activity. I can only encourage you to be careful to see if it is not necessary, on the basis of the observation that will be made, to share a particular promotional campaign that would be more interesting than to give money in cash. These institutions need to be made more attractive from a cultural point of view. The quality of these institutions is known. It is an interesting and attractive heritage, which was clearly penalized by this week. I hope that this will no longer be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u11	That's a good idea. We're gonna talk to the FSE directors to see if we can do a campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u12	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I come back to a question I tabled in March and asked in April. This may be a somewhat unpleasant issue, but I exercise my role of monitoring government action. I asked you, Madam Secretary of State, about your choice to use the Lydian law firm to carry out a few missions. You gave me a very weak answer, that's the least you can say, an answer that drowns the fish. You told me that Lydian had been consulted to "implement the government agreement". At the time, you had explained that you did not know the total amount of the invoices that the services of this law firm represented. I told you that I would come back to the matter. So I come back today with specific questions, and I hope to get answers that are equally so. Madam Secretary of State, what was the procedure for appointing this Lydian law firm? Has there been a call for tenders and how many firms have been consulted? When was this firm hired? When do benefits and billings start? What is the duration of the mission? Is this mission still going on or is it over? What missions has this firm been engaged for? I also asked you if this firm would review the records of your Science Policy administration for you. Is it a way to bypass the administration, not to trust it, to have files reviewed by this external firm? I would like to know whether Mr Mettens' name appears in the invoices in January, when his term of office expired only in April 2015. We talked about it in my previous question. In fact, Mr Mettens introduced a procedure to obtain his assessment only on 10 March 2015, proceedings near the Brussels court of first instance. You did not carry out this assessment before, but you finally did it after this procedure. I remember that the evaluation was very positive. Do you confirm Lydian's previous benefits with respect to the Mettens file as of January 2015? Has the Finance Inspectorate issued an opinion on this contract? If so, what is it? What is the total amount billed by this law firm? How are invoices broken down by month and for which items? Does Lydian continue to work for the department or to represent the state? What is the duration of this mission? At the time, one of your collaborators had announced in the press the cancellation of these invoices prior to March 2015? Have these invoices been cancelled? Does this mean that this firm would have provided free of charge to the State during this period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u13	Mr Delizée, thank you for your question. The lawyer was appointed by negotiated procedure without publicity. Two missions were entrusted to him, one commissioned by the firm, the other by the Science Policy PPS. The first concerned ad hoc advice requested in implementation of the government agreement, in particular with regard to the changeover of the Science Policy PPS and the reform of the ESF. The mission commissioned by BELSPO concerned the function description adapted for the President of the Science Policy PPS and the exact procedure to be followed. The invoice sent to the firm amounted to €36,742.86 (VAT included) for the period from 1 November 2014 to 31 May 2015. The amount sent to BELSPO was €27,148.53 (VAT included) for the period from 1 January to 31 May 2015. Both invoices were paid after the Finance Inspectorate gave its opinion. The missions are carried out. The law firm no longer works for my firm or for the Science Policy PPS. As you know, invoices cannot be cancelled. So my co-worker was erroneously quoted. The invoice we initially received included errors, which were reported by my staff to the law firm. A new invoice, correct this time, has been drawn up. As a result, the law firm did not work for the federal government free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, more precise than the one given to my previous question and trying to drown the fish! It must be noted that here you have given me figures and you have brought some elements that I will examine. Having said that, you have told me about the two general tasks of the firm and the administration that relate to the institutional evolution of the services and to the description of the function of the future president of the PPS since you have relaunched a procedure. On the other hand, you did not answer my question about Mr Mettens. Thus, before March 2015, in other words, before the latter initiated a procedure to request his assessment since his mandate would end, had Lydian's intervention already been requested on the Mettens file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u15	The bills are the ones I said, written by the Lydian Law Office and BELSPO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u16	Do they concern the Mettens mandate, the Mettens procedure, the end of the Mettens mandate? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u17	This includes the procedures for the Chair of the Science Policy PPS and the exact procedure to follow. That is stated in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u18	This is the procedure after renewal, i.e. the conditions for a new application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u19	It's a set. A statute and a procedure go hand in hand. This is the whole procedure, namely what exactly needs to be done in order to achieve a legally correct status, for a president.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u20	What should be done not to renew Mr Mettens despite a very positive assessment? How can we change people? That was the purpose of the mission!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u21	The purpose of the mission was to define a correct procedure for the chairmanship of the Science Policy PPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-08-54-commissie-ic286x.u22	I'm gonna get out of this. I'm going to analyze your answers, for which I thank you.
