ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u1	Mr President, last time I surprised a lot of fellow Members by asking questions about music.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u2	I don't see you as a dancer, unless, perhaps, as a salon dancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u3	It is mainly about tango and Latin American dances, Mr President. You can't always see directly what gifts some colleagues have. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u4	There was no problem for me. Everyone saw a wild dancer in me. Mr Minister, under the provisions of Article 44, § 2, 3° of the VAT Code, the services provided by operators of sports establishments and physical education establishments to persons engaged in physical development or sports are exempt from VAT, where those operators and establishments are non-profit-making institutions and where they use the revenue from the exempted activity exclusively to cover their costs. Since education in Belgium is free, everyone can basically teach dance. For example, there are dance teachers who can even teach dance with a limited education, which they often do, by using a non-profit association. In many cases, these non-profit organisations can rely on the provision of municipal halls, sports halls, schools or cultural centres to allow their activities to take place at a reduced price. In addition, non-profit organisations can often count on a free listing of their activities in municipal data sheets and newspapers. Because dance schools, which do not fall within the scope of Article 44, § 2, 3° of the VAT Lawbook, have to charge 21% VAT on all dance lessons they offer, there is a form of unfair competition against non-profit organisations that offer identical services and do not charge VAT. However, the problem raised does not concern academic schools, which remain outside the scope of this question. Mr Minister, do you agree with me that Article 44, § 2, 3° of the VAT Code creates unfair competition between the aforementioned categories of dancers, which is difficult to justify? Germany and the Netherlands apply a system whereby for the first year VAT is still charged by the dance schools, but if the students continue to take dance lessons, these lessons will be exempt from VAT in the following years, in the context of what is called vocational training. Another proposal would be that after the first year of lessons, the lessons from advanced students, from the second year onwards, should be regarded as sports lessons subject to a VAT rate of 6%. Can you express your views on these proposals? Furthermore, do you not consider that checks on the improper use of non-profit organisations should be increased, as their theoretical activities often differ from what is happening in reality? It is therefore a question of fair competition and equal tax treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, thank you for these questions with a certain rhythm. The exemption mentioned by you is based on the European directive which allows Member States to exempt certain services which are closely linked to the practice of sport or physical education and which are provided by non-profit institutions for persons engaged in sport and/or physical education. As you rightly point out, the same services will therefore be taxed or exempted according to the status of the provider. Operators and non-profit-making establishments do not charge VAT on the dance lessons provided, whereas commercial companies should, in principle, do so. I would point out that exempt taxable persons do not benefit from the right to deduct, while ordinary taxable persons can recover VAT according to normal legal rules. This does not prevent the administration from checking whether the exemption is justified. In its audit programme, the General Administration of Taxation already provides annually for the verification of non-profit organisations, including as regards their actual activity and whether or not to distribute any surpluses to its members. If irregularities are detected, the necessary correction will of course be made. Finally, as far as your specific proposals are concerned, I would like to point out that the exemption on vocational training and retraining is covered by another article of law, in particular Article 44 (2) of the VAT Code. It shall also apply only if such instruction is provided by a non-profit-making institution. There are also other conditions attached to it. My administration has therefore published the necessary clarifications. For the most common cases, my administration considers that the VAT Directive does not allow a reduced rate of VAT on the provision of dance lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do hope that the controls will be so targeted that the non-profit-making associations of non-profit-making non-profit-making organisations are genuinely commercial non-profit-making organisations, because that happens very often. I hope that control will succeed in achieving equal tax treatment, both for non-profit organisations and for other forms of dance schools which have usually adopted a commercial form of company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u7	Our country has been rightly represented at the World Bank for years. Belgium's contribution has evolved from 109 million in 2010 to 126 million in 2014. These financial contributions can be divided into two categories: compulsory and regular contributions to the agencies of the World Bank Group and voluntary contributions to a number of World Bank programmes. Most of the contributions are directly linked to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Most of the compulsory contributions go to the International Development Association. The way in which we work shows that in recent years some of the countries around us have gradually evolved from development cooperation to a development economy, with the aim of not only supporting but also involving local businesses and businesses more in development cooperation. An information note from 2006 from the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation on the flowback of multilateral development cooperation in the period 2001-2004 shows that during that period of the Belgian contribution to the World Bank, on average 20.4 % returned to local activities in the form of contracts for goods, works and services. Are there more recent figures on the return on investment of the Belgian contribution to the World Bank? If so, can I get those numbers? If not, can we get those figures? Are these regularly updated? Does Belgium evaluate this expenditure on a regular basis? If so, can we get this evaluation? If not, isn't this the time to get started? The old director has just been appointed director of the World Bank for our electoral group. In what way will its follow-up be addressed within the IEFA?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u8	The return on investment of the Belgian contribution to the World Bank Group should be calculated through the participation of our companies in the public procurement in the framework of World Bank projects, the so-called procurement. In order to assess this return on investment for Belgium, it is sufficient to look at the evolution of our share in the overall package of invitations to tender that is being made. The figures are as follows: 0.12 % in 2004, 0.78 % in 2006, 0.21 % in 2008, 0.33 % in 2011 and 0.17 % in 2013. In absolute terms, for the percentages just mentioned, the amounts involved are between USD 7.5 million and USD 15 million. If necessary, I can provide further detailed figures on this. The Belgian share, like most other countries, is subject to fluctuations, because Belgian companies focus on projects in Africa and on specific sectors such as energy, mining and transport. As far as your second question on evaluation is concerned, the Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation centralises the figures of a number of institutions to which our country contributes every year, including the World Bank. The figures for the World Bank are requested and discussed on a regular basis within that Directorate-General. Our Belgian representation in the World Bank Group's electoral group office is currently preparing a comprehensive note on these issues. In addition to an analysis of the latest figures on procurement, this note will include a number of recommendations on how Belgian companies can best act proactively and how they can be better supported and supported in these matters. As far as the director is concerned, the appointment of the successor of Mr Frans Godts as administrator of the administration of International and European Financial Affairs will be carried out in accordance with the rules and procedures in force. If necessary, I can, of course, deliver those procedures. It will be strictly according to those rules and procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u9	Mr Minister, I do not wish to provoke you immediately, but may I conclude that we are underperforming, as we call it in beautiful Dutch, in relation to the contribution we make? I am aware that a contribution to the World Bank has a certain form of Benevolentia. It would be appropriate to strive for a normal, even equivalent return to what is being stopped.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u10	I can largely understand that. The problem, however, is that many of our companies, and especially our SMEs, do not know how to deal with it. I believe that we should, above all, improve the flow of information, for example through employers' organisations, so that we know what to do if we think we are to be eligible for certain things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, a satisfaction survey was conducted among FPS Finance staff. The results of this investigation are not good. There's an important demotivation. Among the causes of this demotivation is the fact that staff do not feel involved in the changes that have been induced by the Coperfin reform. There is also a lack of career opportunity and a somewhat chaotic computerization process. These are the black spots identified in this survey. FPS Finance indicated that it would set up working groups to try to think about an improvement plan. It must be noted that staff remain sceptical, since if the survey is accurate, 70% of staff believe that no concrete action will be taken as a result of the survey. Minister, what lessons do you learn from this satisfaction survey? Do you intend to take action to address the weaknesses identified by this survey? Do you have a schedule that you could send to the members of the commission? How do you intend to restore trust between FPS Finance staff and the department's governing bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u12	Mr President, Mr Dispa, these are important comments and questions! The survey took place in early fall in a particularly difficult context, as the FPS Finance is undergoing the largest reorganization in its history. Management has chosen to organize a second satisfaction survey, after that of 2012, because the employee's opinion counts and because the information is also made to go back. The results show that we face challenges in several areas. First, accountability and recognition: employees want to be more involved in the changes taking place within the FPS and to receive more recognition for the work done. Second, career prospects are insufficient, as is support to prepare for future functions. Thirdly, employees want clear and timely communication. Fourthly, the organizational culture: the employees expect the FPS Finances to listen attentively to their needs. They also aspire to a working method that allows for the provision of quality services. The trends in the new survey are consistent with that of 2012, although in general they have decreased somewhat. The important and necessary changes that our FPS is going through are not foreign to it. However, there are areas where we can score well. Thus, in terms of flexibility, efforts have been made in teleworking, satellite office work and variable hours. Satisfaction is evident in the results. On the other hand, leadership issues are almost all rated higher than in 2012. The support offered to the leaders is therefore bearing fruit. The results are currently being analysed. Working groups will be set up. It is crucial that field staff are involved in interpreting results and identifying priority areas for improvement. In addition, the implementation of strategic and operational plans also remains a priority. The related objectives and projects are partially in line with the results of the 2012 survey. The half-tone results of the last survey should not shed a veil on the progress made in recent years in terms of leadership, flexibility and digitalization, computerization and culture. The specific results have only just been reported. It is therefore difficult to give a precise schedule. What is certain is that the working groups will be organised in the first half of 2015 so that the action plan can be finalised this summer. This plan will include a timetable for the various actions. The survey shows that the relationship between employees and managers is doing relatively well. In recent years, we have invested a lot in leadership. This axis will be further developed in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u13	Mr. Dispa, are you motivated now?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u14	Mr President, I had no problem with motivation. It is the colleagues of the department whose states of soul are perceptible that must be stimulated. Having said that, Minister, I thank you for your very nuanced response, which gave us some concerns and points on which to build to improve the results achieved. The staff of the department is not only a burden that should be alleviated in terms of budgetary impact, but is a real resource of the department. We would have everything to gain from seeing all staff mobilize in the prospects for organizational improvement according to the criteria you have outlined. With respect to the timeline, I intend that we will be able to have an action plan for the summer of 2015. We'll talk about it again at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u15	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up to my first question. We are now talking about the same Article 44, § 2, 4° to which you referred earlier on the subject of vocational training. That Article provides that, with effect from 1 January 2014, VAT shall be exempt from "school or university education, including education for children and young people, and vocational training or retraining, including the provision of closely related services and supplies of goods, such as the provision of accommodation, food and beverages and of teaching materials used for the purpose of exempting education, by bodies governed by public law or by other organisations designated for this purpose as bodies for similar purposes, provided that the said bodies do not systematically aim at making profits and that any profits are not paid out but are used for the maintenance or improvement of the aforementioned services'. This new provision is explained in detail in the Circular AAFisc No. 50/2013 of 29 November 2013. As regards the exemption from VAT for vocational training and retraining, it is stated in border number 13 of the abovementioned circular that the application of the exemption is not hindered by the fact that further training is not only accessible to persons who are already effectively engaged in the occupation in connection with which the training or retraining is provided. According to settled case-law, the wording defining the exemptions provided for in Article 132 of the VAT Directive 2006/112/EC should be interpreted strictly, since those exemptions are derogations from the general principle that VAT is levied on any supply of goods and any service provided by a taxable person for consideration. In addition, the administration recognises in Decision No. E.T.126.591 of 25 July 2014 that there may be some uncertainty around the scope of vocational and re-training activities, in particular as regards the fact that such training and retraining should no longer be accessible exclusively to persons who are already effectively engaged in the occupation with which they are provided. The application of the new position is therefore required only from 1 January 2015. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. In view of the strict interpretation according to settled case law, is the exemption for vocational training and retraining not interpreted too widely? An exemption also does not allow the right to deduct VAT. A non-profit association organizes, on the one hand, vocational training as referred to in marginal number 11 of the circular mentioned above and, on the other hand, recreational training, such as a wine tasting course, which can be attended by everyone. Can you confirm that the exemption for such recreational training does not apply, since it does not constitute vocational training?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u16	The concept of vocational training and retraining is referred to in the VAT Lawbook: the teaching directly intended to teach a profession or profession, as well as the further training, retraining or continuous training provided in that context. This definition is in line with the relevant European VAT legislation, according to which vocational training and retraining should be understood as: education directly related to a profession or profession, as well as education with a view to acquiring or maintaining knowledge for professional purposes. This is a matter of fact which must take into account, inter alia, the content, the target audience and the duration of the course. Therefore, the administration does not question the application of the exemption when a course corresponding to the above definition is also attended by persons other than those who are already effectively engaged in the profession covered by the training or retraining. The organisation of recreational training, such as a course of wine trials for lovers, is not covered by the concept of vocational training and retraining and is therefore not exempted under Article 44 of the VAT Code. When a non-profit association organises both exempted vocational training or retraining, for example in-service training of sommeliers who wish to upgrade their knowledge in a specific field, and other non-free courses, e.g. a course in wine trials for enthusiasts, the non-profit association is therefore considered to be a mixed taxable person.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u18	Mr President, Minister, unless I am mistaken, the European Investment Bank (EIB) only works with four large banking networks active in Belgium. Only these four large banks can benefit from the SME credit line within the EIB. At the ECOFIN Council debriefing last December, you said that you told your European colleagues that the financing of the Commission's European Investment Plan – the Juncker Plan – must also be accessible to SMEs. This investment plan will be led by the EIB. That's why there's some concern. At the same time, you explained that large banks would contribute more than proportionally to the Single Resolution Fund because they pose a greater threat to the stability of the banking system. Mr Minister, do you think it is normal for the European Investment Bank to only work with four large banks operating in Belgium? Will you take steps to facilitate the dialogue between the EIB and the Belgian banking sector as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u19	Mr President, as it develops its activities throughout the European Union and even beyond, the EIB has no choice but to channel the resources it wishes to devote to SMEs and midcaps through financial institutions to which it lays down two contractual conditions, in particular to maximise the multiplier effect of its resources and to channel financing to the final recipients on advantageous terms. On the one hand, for a euro loan by the EIB to a financial intermediary, the latter must lend two to the SME or the midcap. On the other hand, the intermediary must ensure that its customers benefit from the favourable financial conditions practised by the EIB. When choosing the intermediary institutions with which it works in Belgium, the EIB shall consider any application for financing submitted to it. Moreover, it is in its interest to diversify its counterparties in a relatively small financial intermediation market, as is the case in Belgium. Moreover, in 2015, the EIB intends to explore the possibilities of extending its contracts to other than traditional banks such as leasing companies or to instruments other than credit lines such as guarantees or equity investments. Of course, we encourage this diversification approach. The problem is more a lack of awareness of the opportunities that the EIB can offer to financial operators than an over-selective bias on its part. For reasons of understandable threshold effect, however, the EIB is forced to target intermediary institutions that have sufficient absorption capacity attested by a significant degree of priority given to SMEs and midcaps within their scope of activity, by a sufficiently wide geographical coverage and by the existence of a minimum critical mass in terms of the volume of financing. For one of these criteria, several institutions operating in Belgium could be eligible and we encourage them if they wish to get closer to the EIB with a view to starting a dialogue. I would like to add that, with regard to the discussion we have about the Juncker Plan – this will again be on ECOFIN's agenda at the beginning of next week – it is certain and certain that the EIB will play an important role at this level. At ECOFIN in December, I insisted on developing instruments that can be beneficial to SMEs. Otherwise, this may actually concern only large banking players and large companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u20	Minister, thank you. I hope that these efforts towards greater diversification of intermediaries will be successful in the course of 2015. This is a big challenge for financing the investments of our SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u21	Mr.President, Minister, since January 1, 2015, electronic services have been taxed in the client's country, regardless of the country in which the service provider is located. Small businesses active in e-commerce have very many concerns about the application of the new VAT rules on e-commerce. Indeed, the implementation of the new regulation involves a series of additional administrative steps for both the seller and the buyer. On its website, the European Commission publishes questions and answers in English on the changes that will take place from 2015. For example, the question "What about small businesses that were previously exempt from VAT?", the Commission explains that, if this company sells electronic services to an individual from another Member State, the latter will have to register with the European Single Window called Mini One Stop Shop (MOSS). The company, which has so far been exempt from VAT for all its transactions, will therefore no longer benefit from this exemption if it sells services to an individual established in another Member State. With respect to the Single Window, the FPS Finance website provides a specific schedule. On 1 October 2014, the Mini One Stop Shop module was scheduled to be launched and the first declarations can be submitted on 1 April 2015. Minister, how does this new regulation move the European single market forward? What are your responses to the concerns of small businesses active in e-commerce? Is the Mini One Stop Shop module fully operational as planned? How does the e-services localization system work? Has it proved its effectiveness? In view of the increase in administrative procedures, could greater harmonisation of VAT rules be a response that would simplify procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Dispa, it should be noted that the new localization rule only changes for three types of specific services provided to non-taxable persons, primarily individuals. These are electronic, telecommunications and broadcasting services, such as radio and television. Until 31 December 2014, they were located in the provider's Member State, applying its VAT rate and not that of the customer. By shifting taxation to the Member State of the consumer, the new regulation addresses the perverse effects of competition linked to the applicable VAT rate. However, for the majority of e-commerce, including the online sale of physical goods, the rules have not changed. A small company subject to the franchise regime will continue to be subject to the same rules in Belgium. If it were to provide in another Member State one of these three services under the conditions mentioned, it will simply use the one-stop shop – the MOSS – to pay foreign VAT due without changing its status in Belgium. As far as MOSS is concerned, this module is well operational in Belgium. Its operating principle is to avoid companies having to be identified with VAT in each Member State where they are liable for VAT. This is very useful for SMEs: it allows for the filing of a single VAT declaration, in electronic form, which covers all the services provided in the other Member States and makes a single payment for all foreign VAT due. This is therefore not an increase, but a reduction in administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u23	Minister, your answers are always very complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u24	The tax retirement is a new concept, Mr De Roover. Please explain what you mean by that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u25	Mr President, we are also here to introduce new concepts, otherwise life would only become more boring. Mr Minister, we are working with this government agreement on a pension regulation that should finally make it possible to work after retirement without disproportionate sanctions. But that's not where the story ends. It is, of course, already important that the pension should not be reduced, but if the tax administration runs away with the full proceeds, then perhaps we are not taking the desired steps forward. Replacement income and pensions enjoy a special tax regime in our country. Pensions up to about EUR 15 000 are fully exempted. For pensions higher than the limit or for those with other income, a tax reduction of EUR 2 024 applies for the tax year 2014. The tax exemption does not fit seamlessly with the tax relief. A tax fall will result in the total collection of pension rights between 1 200 and 1 300 euros gross by the tax authorities. For those who have a small extra earnings from casual work or a small income from real estate, the story becomes even more punitive. There is a marginal rate of more than 600 % for the first euro. For those who have only a pension income, the tax on the additional euro should never exceed 100%. Those who receive other income shall not be subject to that rule. That's a black and white line. In practice, the first EUR 1 000 income above a pension of EUR 15 000 is fully taxed. Previous questions on the so-called retirement trap were answered with a reference to the major fiscal reform in the near future. This will soon be explained here. What will the Minister do to get rid of this tax retirement? In view of the budgetary implications, can an emergency solution be provided, so that a marginal rate of attack could never exceed 100 percent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u26	Mr President, the term tax shift is very popular. I even noticed that some people were very inventive about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u27	I suspect the chairman of the committee has informed De Standaard...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u28	Mr President, Mr De Roover, since 2008, the system of the actual exemption has been replaced by a system of additional tax relief for taxable persons whose net income consists solely of replacement income. In this way, the amount of the tax due on that income shall be limited to the amount by which the limit is exceeded. In addition to this reform, an adapted calculation of the tax relief was introduced simultaneously for taxpayers who supplement their pension income with an income from labour. This adjusted calculation shall be applied to taxable persons who receive a survivor's pension or have reached the statutory retirement age and receive a low statutory pension. I also believe that efforts have already been made to reduce the tax trap on pensions and to reduce the tax burden on labour income as a complement to low pensions. In connection with your comments on pension combined with a small activity income or with a taxable real estate income, it is indeed correct that a proportionately high, possibly too high, tax is payable on this. I hope, together with you and all the others here, that the structural measures and reforms that we will and will have to implement over the next few years will also be able to provide budgetary space to resolve this problem at long last.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u29	Following on from your reply, Minister, I would like to urge that this should preferably be done as soon as possible and that the reform should completely eliminate this anomaly, because it will happen to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u30	The next item is Questions Nos 1268 by Mr Mathot and 1436 by Mr Van Biesen on gold stocks in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u31	Mr President, in common agreement we agreed to postpone our joint questions. As Mr Mathot could not be here today, I would ask you to postpone these questions until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u32	Then we can expect these questions on next week's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u33	Mr President, Minister, at the last ECOFIN debriefing meeting, we asked you about the state of implementation of the financial transaction tax. Unfortunately, as far as the FTT is concerned, the declaration is more often than the action. I lived it during the previous parliamentary term in the European Parliament. At the level of our Parliament, we have been advocating for such a tax for ten years. In recent months, Belgium has entered into an enhanced cooperation procedure with ten other countries. Since ECOFIN on 9 December, rumours have been circulating that implementation is difficult. During this debriefing, which I unfortunately could not attend, you seemed rather pessimistic and very untrustworthy on the subject. Yet all states remain around the table, and some of them seem to want to move forward. This year will be crucial to the progress of work. I would like to return to a number of questions that you have not answered. Could you give us an agenda for the next meetings? On the basis of certain readings, I understand that there was an ECOFIN Council on 26 January and that your French colleague was planning to come back to this subject at this meeting. The French Minister of Finance met with a number of associations in early January and it seems that he wants to be proactive in this area. What is Belgium's attitude in this matter? Will you also be proactive in trying to put into practice this issue that we believe is important? Do you already have a rate or base agreement? If this tax is in place, how will it be allocated? Will it be allocated to national budgets or to the European budget? Will it be used as a reduction in the contribution of States? Will this have an impact on our budget? These are the questions I wanted to ask you in the continuity of our last meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u34	Mr President, Mr Daerden, the first proposal for a Council Directive on a common system of taxation of financial transactions was made on 28 September 2011 and not ten years ago. You are probably referring to the law of 19 November 2004 introducing a tax on foreign exchange transactions of currencies, banknotes and coins; indeed, it must be considered as the original Tobin tax. The tax on financial transactions, which is currently being negotiated at European level, has already been referred to as the Tobin tax, which may lead to some confusion. In concrete terms, next Monday there will be a Eurogroup meeting. I have not yet received an invitation for a meeting, but I have heard rumours that the French Minister of Finance would invite us. Until Wednesday noon, I haven't received anything. If an invitation reaches me, I will certainly go there. I repeat what I have already said on this subject: in my view, after attending three meetings concerning the financial tax, the fundamental problem stems from the French and German attitude. I quickly explain: the French want to exclude all stock derivatives and the Germans demand the exclusion of all bond derivatives. As a result, a huge part of what should be subject to a financial tax disappears. It is this antagonism between these two major countries that constitutes the bulk of the problem. As has already been said in other meetings, I will not hide from you that, if they maintain their positions, I am hardly optimistic about the introduction of a European tax on financial transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u35	Minister, thank you. There was no confusion between the tax on financial transactions and what had been voted by the Belgian Parliament. That being said, as regards the European tax on financial transactions, it is clear that, as in many cases, if there is a Franco-German agreement, this will make it possible to make progress! I hope that this agreement will be concluded and that it will not be minimalist. If it were minimalist, it would completely distort the scope of this tax and could have the opposite effect to that of additional resources needed for the budgets of the Member States and European budgets. You do not answer my question about your position and attitude at this meeting. Will she be a voluntarist? Will you try to push this Franco-German couple further than their basic ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u36	I do not think it is very useful to try to destroy the French and German walls on their own. So I'm ready to get involved in trying to find a compromise. This is also the general attitude. The French and Germans must leave a small opening. I'll check it out. I will communicate the development of the scheduled meetings but have not yet received an invitation for a new meeting. Not all countries in the Euro zone are always invited. This depends on the specific topics discussed. We're still seeing each other in the evening, but I haven't received any invitations to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u37	Mr President, Minister, we have already had the opportunity to mention the fact that, for us, the European Union must have two priorities: one economic and the other social. As such, budgetary rigour is an important element, but it cannot be self-sufficient. Investment will be the key to the recovery. In some respects, therefore, the investment plan devised by the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, is important. We have already discussed this during the ECOFIN debriefing, but I would like to discuss with you other aspects of the conclusions of the European Council of 18 December. They state that the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) will be open to contributions from Member States. Mr Minister, what is the room for manoeuvre for Member States, particularly from a budgetary and debt point of view? Does Belgium intend to contribute to this? What budgetary consequences would this have? What are the political consequences of an actual contribution or non-contribution by a Member State? Have you had any information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, in addition to what my colleague has just asked you as questions, I shall return to the concept of flexibility. This is an important concept. We have had the opportunity to discuss this with the Prime Minister on several occasions at the meetings of the Advisory Committee. A regulation from the European Commission has recently emerged. I wanted to see if Belgium would be affected by that. As Mr Crusnière has said, we must be able to ensure a recovery through investment. That is why this European Fund for Strategic Investments is important. Minister, how will our potential contributions to this fund be treated? More broadly, what opportunities will we have to use this flexibility to allow investment in this fund for projects that would be public and private-public? Will there be a prioritization of projects acceptable to this fund? More generally, will this flexibility allow local (towns and municipalities), regional or even federal entities to increase the volume of investment without falling within the logic of the Six-Pack and Two-Pack?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Member States of the European Union do indeed have the opportunity to contribute to the European Fund for Strategic Investments. Member States may contribute by providing capital either directly, through their national development banks or through co-financing of projects. As regards the status of these investments in the national accounts in relation to Eurostat rules, no formal decisions have been taken. The European Commission has announced that its services will positively consider such financial contributions in the evaluation of public finances under the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. On the other hand, on 13 January, the European Commission presented the method which it will now use in applying the rules included in the Stability and Growth Plan, with regard to the accounting of investments. With regard to Member States' possible contributions to EFSI, where such contributions would lead to non-compliance with the 3% reference value, it is not foreseen that the European Commission will initiate an excessive deficit procedure provided that the difference is minor and presumed temporary. With regard to investment more generally, the European Commission has clarified that, under the preventive part of the Pact, Member States may invoke the investment clause included in the Pact as a temporary departure from their medium-term budgetary objective or from the fiscal adjustment path subject to five conditions. First, GDP growth is negative or remains 1.5% below its potential. For Belgium, this figure is 1.1% according to the Commission, but everyone knows that the Plan Bureau is contesting this figure. Second, the deviation does not result in non-compliance with the 3% reference value and a safety margin is maintained. Thirdly, investment levels are actually increasing. Fourthly, eligible investments are expenditure on projects co-financed by the European Union. Fifth, the difference shall be compensated within the time limits laid down for the purposes of the stability or convergence programme of the Member State. It is now necessary to ensure that these new elements are duly taken into account in the preparation of investment programmes in Belgium, in particular in the context of the implementation of EFSI. At the political level, Member States that will make a contribution to EFSI will not benefit from any return on investment guarantee simply because EFSI will operate on a market-based basis. In order to achieve the expected leverage effect (1 out of 15), priority should be given to projects that have been structured in an attractive way for private investors. With regard to the governance of EFSI, the Fund will have two separate committees: on the one hand, a steering committee and, on the other, an investment committee. The Investment Committee, which will select projects, will be composed of independent experts specializing in project financing. It selects projects according to their merit, without geographical and sectoral constraints. This was very clearly explained at ECOFIN in December. The independence of the Investment Committee is a very important element for Belgium and we also welcome the fact that products financed by the European Fund for Strategic Investments will have to follow the EIB's traditional procedures, which are based on banking and non-political criteria. With regard to the list of projects sent by our country, it was the result of consultations with stakeholders, including the Federal, the Regions, the French Community and the private sector. The list includes more than 170 projects with a total cost of EUR 77 billion. Within the predefined framework, the different Belgian entities have been given full autonomy to select their projects according to their respective development plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for all these interesting clarifications because they are complementary to all the discussions we have already had during the ECOFIN debriefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u41	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for these answers. I hope that with the five criteria put forward – I assume they are cumulative – we will be able to expand our much needed investment capacity. I also hope that the discussions you are going to have with your colleague from the Budget, particularly with a view to the deadline for the budgetary adjustment, will make it possible to integrate these elements for Entity I but also for Entity II and local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u42	Question No 1305 by Mrs Winckel is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u43	These are remarkable statistics. In Flanders, everyone thinks the Walloons are less controlled than the Flemish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u44	You see, sometimes it's worth analyzing these reports and asking questions. Minister, I do allow myself to question you following the recent publication of statistics on tax controls. In reading these statistics, one element that caught my attention was the high percentage of checks carried out by Walloon employees. While they represent only 32% of the total number of employees, they have undergone 47% of the total checks. This trend can be observed for several years already. Minister, can you tell me on what basis the headquarters decides to control a particular declaration? How can you explain the fact that more checks have been carried out in Wallonia in recent years? On the basis of the statistics, it is also apparent that targeted checks are carried out annually. Can you also explain to me the reasons why the administration chooses to target a particular sector or group of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u45	Mr Crusnière, following the lessons learned from the study carried out by Deloitte at the initiative of Mr Carl Devlies, the General Tax Administration has set itself the objective of optimising its tax control policy by investing in effective risk management, the purpose of which is to achieve more targeted tax control. In order to ensure uniform processing in the field of controls, the option was taken to organise as much as possible centrally and on the basis of a risk profile the selection of the files to be checked. Geographical location is not in itself a criterion in the risk profile. The aim of this centralised selection is to ensure that taxpayers with the same risk are subject to the same checks, that controls are subject to the same approach and that infringements found are subject to the same sanction. All categories of taxpayers, whether employees, self-employed or undertakings, are covered by the actions thus organised, which may concern a particular sector, activity or theme. It shall ensure that a majority of the operational services of the different regions of the country are covered by the control measures. However, the distribution of the dossiers to be checked in these different regions may depend on the very nature of the subject which the control action aims to cover. This distribution is also linked to the control capacity of local services, which depends directly on the number of controllers assigned to them. In this respect, in January 2015, the distribution of the staff of the General Tax Administration is as follows: - 45% of staff are dependent on a regional directorate with its headquarters in Flanders; - 29% of staff are dependent on a regional directorate based in Wallonia; - 26% of staff depend on a regional directorate with its headquarters in Brussels or on central services also based in Brussels. In the workforce it has put in competition to carry out the operationalisation of the restructuring of its administrations, the tax authorities provided for the following distribution of jobs: 53% of jobs in Flanders, 27% of jobs in Wallonia and 20% of jobs in Brussels. The above shows a deficit of 550 jobs in Flanders. The tax, aware of this situation, places the bulk of its efforts in future recruitment on Dutch-speaking jobs. For example, the 2015 tax staff plan provides for 314 recruitments, of which 308 are planned for Dutch speakers. Similarly, the 2014 staff plan provides for 281 recruitments, of which 238 are planned for Dutch speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u46	Mr President, I am not going to say that the answer reassures me. I am not asking that the geographical criterion be a selection criterion, it is not at all objective. On the other hand, Minister, you are quoting a series of figures. There are 45% agents in Flanders and this is not at all related to the number of checks. You're talking about recruitment, but it's only about part of the staff leaving FPS Finance. I do not believe that this will change much since we know that the means are in decline both for recruitment and for operating costs. The numbers of future recruits that you quote are barely able to cover departures, so that's not what will solve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u47	Questions Nos 1366 and 1367 by Mr Alain Mathot are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u48	Mr President, Minister, during the examination of the 2015 budget and the programme law, we took note of the famous fact sheets of the tax administration for the Court of Auditors. In the statement on the measure on liquidation reserves, the administration quantifies the substitution effect of the liquidation contributions in relation to the movable prepayment. The administration refers to an updated net loss of EUR 47.5 million. This loss is the difference between what shareholders would pay today and what they would pay through the new system. In any event, this is a general reduction in the tax on capital income. The Council of State does not say anything else in its opinion on the programme law, since it states that it is a measure which "seems to be aimed not at facilitating the financing of SMEs but at reducing the withholding tax on dividends". While the government presented this measure as an important aid to SMEs, the Conseil d'État itself says that it is aid to shareholders. Moreover, a certain specialized literature, the Fiscologue, confirms in its analyses the substitution effect. Minister, will a separate budget item from the personal expense, dividend, be used for the liquidation reserve contribution? If so, how were the amounts budgeted for the contribution up to 2018 reflected in the budget projections of the Movable Discount? If not, how was the substitution effect taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u49	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, first of all, it should be pointed out that there is no separate budget item in respect of the provision of personal savings taking over the proceeds from the taxation of liquidation reserves. The track and means budget reflects only one overall item in relation to the income received at the level of the household allowance. In most cases, the budget displays tax revenues collected by type of tax, for obvious reasons of budgetary readability. As regards SMEs, as defined in Article 15 of the Company Code, it is established from the 2016 tax year that profits after tax are collected at an advance rate of 10% in so far as they are paid into a special liquidation reserve. If the profit so reserved is distributed in the form of dividends after five years, a 5% household discount supplement will apply. If these reserves are distributed as dividends within five years, a 15% household allowance supplement will apply. The separate rate of personal tax payable on such dividends shall be fixed at the same level. At the time of payment of the profit withheld on the dissolution of the company, no personal income tax is payable. The establishment and extension of the liquidation reserve may only be applied during taxation years in which the company is considered to be small within the meaning of Article 15 of the Corporate Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I do not think you have answered the question which is of a more budgetary nature. I therefore wonder whether this question should not be put to the Minister for the Budget. So it's possible that I'm speaking to him. Indeed, the idea is to know to what amount the loss for the Consolidated Revenue Fund would amount by what is not collected in the ordinary household allowance but in the form of a separate contribution. The difference in rates results in a budgetary loss that the tax administration has tried to quantify. I will therefore continue the discussion with the Minister of Budget. Mr. Minister of Finance, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u51	Mr Minister, the Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013 explicitly excludes in its Article 36 that so-called "vulture" funds take over funds intended for cooperation. As I recall, "vulture funds" are those funds that buy back debts, on which a number of developing countries depend. They redeem them with a discount and hope to be able to be fully repaid with interest from the debtor States. Some well-known cases are dealt with in the United States or English courts. The Belgian courts have sometimes even been brought before them. Before this law, these "vulture funds" could ask the Belgian State to pay them development aid rather than to pay it to the debtor States. This is really a huge problem that handicaps many countries like Argentina. I had the opportunity to meet with the Ambassador of Argentina, who explained to me the situation in his country. He also quoted me as a rather exceptional figure. So they negotiate all their debts with all their creditors: 93% of their creditors accept a sequencing and 7% refuse. Who are these 7%? Vultures. The Argentinians have quite interesting arguments, arguing that if they collide at some point, it will be harmful for the entire global economic and financial system and for Belgian savers who, through investment funds, can hold Treasury bills or Argentine bonds. Therefore, fighting against "vulture funds" is not only sensible for the countries concerned but for all countries. One of the major advances in this text is that it applies to all government policies that may have an impact on developing countries. Therefore, Mr Minister, in the name of policy coherence for development, now legally binding, what steps have you taken or intend to take, so that your department's decisions fully respect this coherence, particularly with regard to the debate on "vulture funds"? What initiatives can be taken to try to limit the harmful effect of these "vulture funds"? More broadly, how do you look at this problem? What initiatives could you take more concretely with regard to the Argentine debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u52	Mr Laaouej, the FPS Finances encouraged the enactment of the law of 6 April 2008 which aims to prevent the seizure or division of public funds for international cooperation by so-called "vulture funds". My department supported Belgium's accession to the legal support facility created in June 2009 by the African Development Bank, of which Belgium was the first OECD country to become a member. This facility aims to provide assistance in legal proceedings initiated by these "vulture funds", through legal aid and technical assistance to countries affected by the "vulture funds". The FPS Finances also supports the principle of Naming and Shaming, which consists of publicly denouncing the practices of "vulture funds". In general, my department is involved in any initiative that will enable the countries affected by the "vulture funds" to regain their credibility, in order to normalize their relations with the international financial community. The FPS Finance also seeks to prevent bona fide creditors from being deprived of some of the legal opportunities to obtain repayment of their justified claims. With regard to the particular case of Argentina, because this is an exemplary case, my department is part of the decisions taken within the framework of the Paris Club. In May last year, we took an important decision on Argentina: Argentina's support without IMF support. The agreement also provides for the promulgation of payment deadlines, which greatly helps Argentina to clean up a financial situation which nevertheless remains rather difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u53	Thank you, Minister. This shows, in any case, that this subject is not foreign to you and that you attach a certain interest to it. Mr President, Mr Minister, I have tabled a bill to try to put in place a legal system which ensures, of course, that creditors are preserved in good faith, but which would also, on the one hand, prevent these "vulture funds" from asking for more than what they are entitled to, on the basis of a whole series of criteria; and, on the other hand, allow a Belgian judge seized of such an approach to be able to refuse to return to the game of these "vulture funds" which, through their lawyers, multiply proceedings in all countries where it is possible to seek money. Belgium may at some point be able to be creditor vis-à-vis certain countries. Not only the developing countries, but already developed countries that find themselves in a somewhat difficult financial situation. This can happen to everyone, just see what is happening in Europe. And with a criterion that is somewhat similar to the criterion of injury found in the Civil Code. You know that in the Civil Code, when there is a disproportionate price on the occasion of the sale of a building, the person who bought the building can see the judge and say: I bought a building but at a price that is completely disproportionate and therefore I ask you to review or cancel the sales contract. I draw a little from this logic, taking as a criterion the disproportion between the face value of the debt and the redemption value of the debt by the "vulture fund" - plus a whole series of other criteria - one could allow a Belgian judge who would be seized to consider that the demand for the "vulture fund" is not acceptable and therefore must be rejected. But I would point out that this must be done with a certain pragmatism by avoiding penalizing creditors in good faith. I must also convey to you, Mr President, that the Ambassador of Argentina whom I met at a working meeting - because I wanted to go into the matter - is quite willing to come and explain the problem from the point of view of a typical case: Argentina. If you wish, on the occasion of the consideration of my bill, a hearing with the ambassador and his teams could be very useful. I'm completely open. I don't want to make it a political issue. I find this to be a matter of general interest. The proposal is open for signature, for amendment. If the firm wants a working meeting, I'm open. It is a matter of general interest that would show that in Belgium, we can be forerunners on certain subjects. The call is made. Maybe we'll have a chance to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u54	Mr President, we have received from the Court of Auditors an excellent report on the tax of non-resident natural persons, a report containing ideas for more effective taxation. In this report, the Court of Auditors makes a series of recommendations on the treatment and verification of the declarations of this category of taxpayers. Beyond these recommendations, the Court of Auditors makes a more fundamental remark: "The Court of Auditors is of the opinion that the concrete recommendations will have only a limited impact if the tax system of non-residents is not thoroughly reformed." The tax system for foreign executives is one of the points to be reviewed by the Court of Auditors. It was introduced in 1983. The rules of the scheme are contained in an administrative circular. So there is no legal basis to date. The finding is not new since in 2003 the Court of Auditors had already noted this point. Are you in favour of reforming the tax system for non-residents? Will you take steps to provide a legal basis for the tax system of foreign executives? In terms of taxation, do you think Belgium is more attractive to foreign executives than to neighbouring countries and direct competitors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u55	Mr Minister, this is a story that already dates from a circular dated 29 September 1960 which wished to introduce a tax favor regime for foreign workers. The original idea provided for an additional flat-rate deduction for business expenses of 30% of taxable income and for the granting of the status of Belgian non-resident to the worker concerned. After the Court of Cassation had given its opinion, it was found that that additional flat-rate deduction was unlawful in addition to a standard flat-rate deduction. Consequently, the circular of 8 August 1983 saw the Iicht. The Court of Auditors has made many comments. The 2003 and 2014 reports also consider that this circular has no legal basis and that it is negative about the lack of controls on the application of the expat regime and on taxpayers subject to the tax of non-residents in general. A stricter control does not prevent the regime from providing time limits for foreign executives. The Court of Auditors has apparently seen cases where a recognised executive has been resident in Belgium for more than 20 years. The Finance spokesperson stated that it can be said that 55% of recognised executives lose their status after 10 years. The Court recommends limiting recognition as a foreign executive in time and improving the exchange of information with abroad. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. To what extent do you intend to comply with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors? Which recommendations are and which are not? Your fellow Secretary of State, Mr Sleurs, has also included in her policy paper an action point to control persons subject to the tax of non-residents. To what extent will you follow that up? Finally, do you intend to limit the regime for foreign executives, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, in time? If so, what direction do you intend to take and what period do you intend to take? Would you like to align the duration of the tax posting with social legislation, because in the context of a posting, the coordination directive of social security systems provides for a period of two years in order to improve the exchange of information between the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u56	Mr Dispa, Mrs Wouters, thank you for your questions, I will try to regroup a little. Indeed, as Mrs Wouters has correctly pointed out, Belgium has long had a system for attracting high profiles, which require special knowledge and responsibility. The system was introduced at the time to attract foreign investment, despite the high wage costs in Belgium. Although this government has already taken measures and will follow further measures to reduce labour costs, these wage costs remain a serious problem in this context. As far as foreign executives are concerned, if Belgium is compared with neighbouring countries, it cannot be said that Belgium provides a more advantageous regime for foreign executives. The Court of Auditors has noted both in its 2003 report and in the most recent report that the system as it stands today does not really have a legal basis. I am not in favour of abolishing the system as a whole, just as much as I was able to find out about it as my predecessors have been since 1992. However, I am convinced that foreign investors will benefit from a sound and sound regime. I will therefore instruct my administration to examine the substance of the Court's recommendations and to make a quantitative assessment of the size of this aid as precise as possible. As soon as the results of that study are known, it will be examined whether initiatives are being imposed, in particular as regards the particular attack system for some foreign executives. As far as control is concerned, all the above does not alter the fact that persons subject to the tax on non-residents, including foreign executives, must of course be controlled and effectively controlled. Since 2012, the General Administration of Taxation has focused its policy on tax control through risk management more on targeted tax controls. The option has been taken to organise the selection of the files to be checked largely in a centralised manner based on the risk profile. I would stress that, since the introduction of this system, no specific control action has been organised centrally with regard to foreign executives. However, the General Administration of Taxation foresees that this could be included in the 2016 control programme. I therefore fully support what Mr Sleurs included in her policy paper on the control of and on non-residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u57	Minister, for my part, I do not fully support Minister Sleurs in her policy statement, but it is not very serious. I hear your cautious response to the advisability of providing the mechanism with a legal basis, as well as the prospects for reform. You prefer to wait for the administration report, which I understand very well. It would be interesting for the committee to be able to obtain this report or the reading you are making in order to be able, when the time comes, to define the most sensible direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with Mr Dispa: it would be interesting to continue the discussion as soon as those figures are known. I fully support you when you say that wage costs are one of the major problems that we will have to tackle, because they create all kinds of systems. I also think that Belgium is no more advantageous than our neighbouring countries. We must ensure that, within the European context, we, as Belgians, do not get rid of the market in order to attract workers. I therefore hope that further questions will be raised in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the collection of penalty fines is the subject of regular discussion, undoubtedly not only in this committee but also in the Committee on Justice. According to the latest report from the Court of Auditors that we have read about it, only 27% of police sentences would be recovered. It is even worse with the correctional penalties, of which only 14% would be recovered. That's too bad. We put all this effort into enforcement, we put in police and magistrates, we put in resources for that, but if we end up with penalties, they will not be carried out: then, of course, there is little point. According to the Court of Auditors' report, the contract with Unisys for the development of STIMER, an IT system designed to centralise the management and recovery of all revenue from the FPS Finance, was to cease on 2 January 2013. If we read the Court of Auditors' report, Minister, it was for logical reasons. It is effectively said that STIMER has uniformly automated the registration and sending of payment requests. By means of a structured communication, they shall also send a transfer form to the recipient, but the essential elements of the application are missing, namely the follow-up of payment periods, which is quite logical, the sending of a reminder letter for payment and enforcement via simplified attachment or forced recovery through the bailiff. That was no longer possible once they called upon STIMER. What was meant made implicitly impossible by the chosen computer system. Understand who can, but it would have been. This contract would have been terminated. EUR 20 million would have been spent on this. Apparently, there would have been a procedure or recovery for some of the amounts already paid. However, a response from your predecessor in 2014 showed that STIMER would still have been in operation. Now I don't understand, Minister. The consortium Genesis Centran would have worked on stabilising the application and a new specifications, called First, would thus have been entrusted and implemented in order to develop new functionalities. Hence my questions to the Minister. How's STIMER now? Is it alive or is it effectively written off? What about the command to Genesis Centran to stabilize the application? Has that been done effectively and has that work been completed? Were new functionalities already implemented on the basis of that guide? In other words, does one go beyond sending an ordinary payment request? What about the amounts paid? Has a piece been repaid or is there compensation? What is the further planning related to STIMER? What are your insights into this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u60	Ms Van Cauter, when the contract with Unisys was terminated in 2013, it was decided to replace the project STIMER with the project First. First is in the second phase of so-called evolutionary maintenance. This means that technical and functional improvements are being made. The consortium Genesis Centran completed the first phase of that evolutionary maintenance on 15 August 2014. The registered problems were solved and the modules in production were adapted to the current ICT standards. In addition, a number of barriers were unblocked in the system pending a more definitive solution. The new handbook will be published in the course of 2015 so that the contract can be awarded when completing the second phase of the evolutionary maintenance, namely in December 2015. On 11 February 2014, the court took note of the agreement between the Belgian State and Unisys, in which there are no mutual payments due. The second phase of evolutionary maintenance runs until the end of 2015 and is still focused on improving the applications. A new handbook will be published in the course of 2015 on the development of new functionalities to support recovery and recovery. The implementation of that contract will take about two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u61	Mr President, Minister, I understand that in order to collect fines electronically, first STIMER and then First will be used. I also understand that the agreement with the firm that has developed STIMER has been terminated in love, that both parties have put water in the wine and come to an agreement. Secondly, you reply that we are now working on a first and a second phase, which identifies the obstacles and, if necessary, removes them. Minister, I do not know much about that, of course. Maybe I don't understand. That may be up to me, because I'm not very specialised in ICT. Does that mean, however, that in addition to sending an invitation to pay, there is now a possibility of following up, remembering, simply confiscating and ordering the bailiff? Can things follow each other evolutionaryly in the very short term? Is that correct, or can you not explain it in detail? Do I understand correctly that there will be a new set of specifications in which, taking into account all the shortcomings or obstacles, as you put it so nicely, it will be even better defined how the collection of fines will be carried out in practice? Perhaps you could explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, I would like to explain this briefly. My answer to your last question is yes. For the answer to your first question, I would like to ask you exactly where we stand. After all, you are rightly becoming quite specific on all kinds of points. However, I would suggest that I look into this and I inform you about it as soon as I get the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the discussion just now brings me seamlessly to this question. First is an automatic and unified application for the electronic collection of fines. Through the media, we hear that a pilot project is under way in Ghent, in which the FPS Finance is sending letters of formal notice on its own initiative, threatening to proceed with forced execution through the intervention of a bailiff. Is that separate from First? Wanpayers get two months to pay. If no payment is made, bailiffs are ordered to collect. The results would be very positive, as it is reported that additional EUR 290 000 had been collected in Ghent. Or is this more generally about collecting taxes, regardless of fines? Are taxes collected in a different way than fines? I would like to have some explanation about this. At different times, things will be evaluated. A pilot project would also be launched shortly in Wallonia. Can you discuss the current situation of the project in Ghent? Can you distinguish it from First? Why doesn't all this happen in the same way? What is the situation in Wallonia? Has a pilot project already started there? Do you have any idea of a time limit for the generalization of the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, as far as relations with First are concerned, I would ask you for some time to have that examined. I will certainly reply to that later. You had four specific questions. First, as regards the pilot project in Ghent, between the end of September 2014 and mid-January 2015, 12 704 unpaid fines were processed. Since some persons have to pay different fines, this amounts to 10 175 debtors of one or more fines. Of the 15.6 million euros to be recovered, 862 000 euros were received, i.e. 5.5 %. This percentage is lower than the percentage of 10% I mentioned earlier because the second set of files was sent to the bailiff only very recently, so the procedure was not completely completed. Once that's done, that percentage will normally increase. The balance that is still open represents different types of files. There are files in which there is still a possibility of recovery from the convicted person or from third parties and there are files for which the possibility of recovery is minimal because the debtor is detained, residing abroad, has been removed without known address or is involved in insolvency proceedings. As regards your second and third questions on Wallonia, the launch of the pilot project in Liège was launched on 5 December 2014. That will run until the end of the second quarter of 2015. In your fourth question, you asked about the prospects. Once the new working methods have been further developed and if there are no significant problems with the Debiteursbeheer programme, the project will gradually be implemented throughout the country during the third quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u65	Minister, you understand that I have questions about the relationship between these pilot projects and First. There is a public invitation to tender. The aim is to create a general set of specifications and to re-establish public procurement. In addition, there is another pilot project. I don't understand any of this. Fines are imposed by way of a verdict. With First, the sentence would automatically end up in a computer system after which a formal notice will be sent. In addition, there is another pilot project which actually sends letters of formal notice in a different way. That's really confusing for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u66	I will try to put an end to this confusion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 1534 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u68	Mr President, Minister, the follow-up audit of the Court of Auditors shows that the procedures for simplified attachment and tax compensation for the collection of penalty fines by the FPS Finance leave to be desired. However, so says the Court of Auditors, both ways of recovering penalty fines are very cheap and simple. The recovery of penalty fines through compensation was, according to the Court of Auditors, not sufficiently used. This is due both to insufficient quality and incomplete information on claims and to the absence of initiatives from the recipient offices. So some do not! With regard to the non-systematic use of the tax compensation and the simplified attachment, which is actually even easier, since it concerns the sending of a registered letter to the employer who will then have to take over the remuneration. In particular, there is insufficient use of tax compensation and no use of the simplified herd. Minister, what steps have been taken in the meantime to implement and simplify these procedures of tax compensation? Can you tell me what progress has been made in automating the tax compensation? I'm not talking about STIMER. I'm talking about First. What measures have been taken to encourage the simplified attachment? Is the procedure of the simplified attachment now being used in the receiving offices? Are any initiatives planned in the future to encourage the use of both methods?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u69	As far as your first two questions are concerned, all extracts from courts or tribunals which order the payment of a penalty penalty and court fees are included in the database of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Hence they automatically enter the fiscal balance sheet, which gives an overview of a citizen's assets and debts. As a result, the offices that make a refund, such as personal tax or VAT, can take this situation into account. Where before August 2014, the offices had to contact each other via e-mails or forms, everything now happens automatically. The office that will make the refund shall pay the amount into the office's account where a penalty is still open, indicating the structured notice. This payment will then automatically continue to be booked. In this sense, the procedure is automated. It is considered whether it is feasible and advisable to exclude manual interventions and thus to process the whole procedure in a computer program. Over the last three years, the results of compensation for direct taxes on non-fiscal debts, mainly penalty fines, have been as follows: EUR 15.7 million for 2012, EUR 25.1 million for 2013 and EUR 37.3 million for 2014. This is therefore a large doubling over three years, in particular an increase of 138 %. Moreover, in 2014, EUR 1.4 million in VAT refunds was offset by non-fiscal debts. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, no specific measures have yet been taken in view of the problems with First, and in the past with STIMER, and the simplified procedure has not yet been used by the bank. As far as your fifth question is concerned, priority will be given to stabilising and further improving First, using the Debiter Management programme for the recovery of penalty fines and, if the pilot projects are successful, their roll-out. I make it clear that integration has indeed taken place, but I promise that I will give a clearer answer to this during one of the forthcoming sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u70	Mr Minister, automatic compensation is undoubtedly a major step forward. I'd say hold on to this, keep doubling the percentage. However, I have not heard whether any compensation is being paid in all the offices. You don't have to answer that immediately. That was exactly the problem the Court of Auditors detected: some offices do it proactively, but others simply don't. The simplified herd was made possible by the legislator a number of years ago. This means that there is a possibility of a wage seizure without intervention by a bailiff. One should simply check with the RSZ whether the RSVZ where someone is employed writes down the employer, and then there can be a deduction on the salary, of course with the necessary respect for the non-taxable minimum. It can be so simple, with so little cost! However, I hear that there are pilot projects involving the use of bailiffs. I really have nothing against bailiffs, but this is how extra execution costs are incurred. These must not only be advanced, but ultimately also paid by the debtor, on top of the debt. They are often people in difficult situations. It can be so simple! I therefore hope that this will be done as a matter of urgency. If you do automate everything, you can take it with you. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic061x.u71	We will meet again next Tuesday, at 10 a.m. 00 for the priority legislative proposals and at 14 a.m. 00 for the hearing with Mrs Tai and Mr Batselier of the ruling committee.
