ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u1	Minister, I asked you about the assaults on the trains. You told me that since 2006, SNCB has been working on the basis of an anti-aggression masterplan, which already contains more than 50 measures contributing to the fight against aggression. These measures are at different levels and target the different categories of persons within the SNCB. These include, for example, the training of staff to learn how to manage difficult situations, the simplification of the product range, the accompaniment of at-risk trains by Securail, and the installation of cameras in certain trains. I did not mention all the measures. Masterplan is not a statistical document. It is regularly assessed and adapted to changing circumstances and needs. Can you tell me what's going on with this anti-aggression masterplan? When was the last evaluation of the evaluation conducted? Is it possible to get the latest version of this masterplan? Have the measures set out in this plan since 2006 been implemented? Have the cameras actually been installed on some trains and, if so, have you noticed a decrease in attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u2	Dear colleague, as indicated, masterplan is not a frozen document. It is updated monthly. Three times a year, the steering group meets to review the situation and discuss problematic issues. The evolution of the anti-aggression masterplan is also presented three times a year to the joint anti-aggression working group, which consists of representatives of society and staff. The last consultation took place on Thursday, October 1. In 2012, an internal audit was conducted relating to SNCB's policy on aggression, in which recommendations were made. In 2013, a staff survey was conducted to assess satisfaction with the assault policy. This investigation will be repeated in 2016. The anti-aggression masterplan is an internal working document, dealt with with with recognised organisations in a joint working group. SNCB is of the opinion that it should not be made public. The measures in this plan are reflected in the regular operation of the SNCB. The objectives set since 2006 are subdivided into five categories: proactive, preparatory, preventive, reactive, repressive and curative. More than 50 different measures have been developed in these various categories. As regards the proactive approach with the introduction of the on-board fare with targeted communication for both travellers and staff. For the preparatory work, the preparation of collaboration with local authorities based on collaboration agreements. For prevention, a prevention campaign free emergency number security operation center. In the case of reactive and repressive measures, awareness-raising among prosecutors about the prosecution of perpetrators of attacks against SNCB personnel. For the curative, special attention should be paid to the reception and support of victims of aggression. Desiro trains in service since 2013 are equipped with surveillance cameras. The images are not observed in real time but only recorded. Since 2013, SNCB has seen a downward trend in the level of communications related to assaults. However, this may depend on a number of factors. It is therefore premature to conclude that the presence of cameras in Desiro trainsets results in a significant decrease in the number of attacks
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u3	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I can understand that this document is internal and should not be published. I welcome this downward trend. It's a long-term job. The different objectives as you have presented them to us (preventive, curative, reactive) really go in the right direction in order to improve the situation. But security is obviously indispensable. I think we need to keep working. The news is absolutely not bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, paying for her train ticket seems obvious to me, but this is clearly not the case for everyone. Indeed, some board free of charge and hope to enjoy a quiet ride. We might believe that the haunting of these fraudsters is to meet a train controller or attendant. Well, don't make a mistake! Indeed, this situation is not stressful for them as they can deduce a false identity and thus usurp someone else's identity. In the event of a check on SNCB trains, the fraudster is not required to present an identity document to the attendant. He can verbally decline his identity. This possibility allows unscrupulous fraudsters to decline a fictitious identity in order to avoid the fine, or even to usurp someone else's identity if they know their surname, first name and address by heart. We are required by law to present our identity card in some cases. This is the case during any requisition of the police, in the framework of its legal and regulatory tasks, as well as during any request for certificates and extracts by municipal services or by other public services, when the person concerned must produce proof of his identity in case of intervention of a judicial officer. Others can only ask the citizen to show his or her identity card: they cannot oblige him or her to do so, and that is the whole problem. Ideally, the law should be amended to allow train attendants to be able to request identity cards, as well as STIB agents. In addition, the security officers in Securail possess this competence but are not always on board the train and employing them would cause a great deal of delay for the train in question. Minister, can you tell me how many identity frauds were recorded for 2014? Is this figure higher than in previous years? Can you tell me if there is an amendment to the legislation in this regard? Do you have any contact with your colleague from the Interior in this regard? Don't you think it would be interesting if train attendants could crack down on fraudsters by being certain of their identities? Can you tell me why the officers of the STlB have this competence and not those of the SNCB? What happens when a citizen receives a fine when he or she was not on the train? If I ask you this question, it is because I was arrested by parents who received a fine for their son who was not on the train because he was with them. We had voluntarily given a bad identity and the parents were fined. However, the means of redress are not simple. I wanted to know what remedies are available and whether or not an amendment to the law is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u5	In 2014, 1,644 identity usurpations were recorded, down from 2,068 in 2013. Each train attendant is trained to check transport tickets and to see that the conditions of carriage are well respected. If they are not, each attendant is entitled to draw up a C170. To do so, each attendant may ask the client to identify themselves by means of their identity card or any other official document. If the client refuses to present these documents, the accompanying person, whether sworn or not, requests assistance via SOC to identify the client concerned. The great difference lies in the legal consequences. The C170 drawn up by a sworn accompanist can form the basis of a VP which is then transmitted to the court. This is not possible for a C170 established by an undeclared escort. A sworn escort has a legitimation card, issued by the Mobility and Transport FPS, which gives him the competence of a judicial police officer. The last Royal Decree on the swearing-in of the personnel concerned in SNCB dates from 23 May 2013. A new royal decree was signed by the King and is expected to be published in the Belgian Monitor in the coming days. Like the Securail officers, the 200 or so STIB officers are security officers within the meaning of the Act of 10 April 1990 regulating private and private security. This Act provides for the possibility of requiring the presentation of identity documents under penalty of being forcibly detained until the arrival of the police. In such a situation, STIB controllers can leave the vehicle and immobilize the fraudster on the docks for a maximum of 30 minutes in order to allow the police to arrive. At SNCB, the attendants are the ones who find the transport irregularities. They are obliged to remain on board the train. Immobilizing the traveller while waiting for the police services would, in a number of cases, be tantamount to having to immobilize a whole train, which would have enormous consequences on traffic and thus on punctuality. This issue will be considered in the context of the review of the measures to be taken with regard to the "One Man Car" project. In general, it is up to this person to file a complaint for identity fraud and possibly to file this argument with the customer service. In principle, it is the responsibility of any normally prudent and diligent person who sees a theft or loss of personal document to report it to the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u6	I thank the Minister for her response. The only downside is that some attendants do not apply for the ID card and draw up the card on the basis of a name they are provided with. I understand that technically speaking, it's not easy to handle this on the train since schedules must also be respected. But it would have to be studied because 1,644 or 2,068 cases, it's not nothing. I'm going to study the thing too and maybe come back with a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u7	The judge may impose medical and psychological examinations, linked to a driving ban, on the expiry of the right to direct. In practical terms, it means that, on the basis of these investigations, driving is to be declared fit before the licence can be returned. The most common cause for a recovery investigation is driving under the influence. This is expected to change slightly by the law of 9 March 2014. Article 9 states that recovery investigations should also be imposed in the event of repeated traffic offences of the most severe degree committed as of 1 July 2014, within a period of three years. This is likely to increase the group that is being imposed on recovery investigations for facts other than driving under the influence of alcohol. The Royal Decree of 8 March 2006 amending the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 provides that the recovery investigations are carried out by private organisations such as non-profit organisations and companies. The Royal Decree also lays down the conditions for the organisation to obtain recognition. How much time is there in Belgium on average between the traffic offence itself and the recovery investigations? Which organisations have obtained recognition? What's their statute? Are both medical and psychological rehabilitation studies carried out in these institutions? Is there a waiting time in the settings? What's the average cost? In what way is the quality of the studies monitored? In other words, is there a formal quality monitoring system? In 2013, the recovery research department of the BIVV obtained the ISO 9001 standard, which imposes requirements on an organisation's quality management system. Should all approved bodies comply with the standard? If not, will the Minister make changes in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u8	Madam, your first question falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. There are 11 recognized decay institutions. Each of them has several establishments spread throughout the country. They're private companies. Medical and psychological tests are carried out in all settings. Only a few establishments do not carry out any psychological or medical tests. On the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport you can find an overview. According to Article 73 of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences, the institutions must have sufficient capacity to carry out the medical or psychological examinations carried out for the first time by the applicant within fourteen days after the institution has received the file from the public prosecutor. A medical examination costs up to 92 euros and a psychological examination costs up to 311 euros. Counterfeiting institutions must be able to demonstrate that they can provide comprehensive quality care if they are to be recognised. Inspectors of the Directorate for Certification and Monitoring of the Directorate-General for Mobility and Road Safety shall check that the institutions continue to comply with the conditions of approval. During the inspection the waiting times will also be followed and it will be examined whether all agreements are made within the legal period. No quality standard is imposed as set by the BIVV, because the inspectors have few comments and because we do not get many complaints about the decaying institutions either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that there are few complaints about the institutions carrying out such investigations. In the field, however, I hear that the waiting times may sometimes increase and that the content of the studies, in particular psychological research, often consists of a standard list that can be completed within ten minutes. Then there's a brief conversation. For this, EUR 311 must be paid. In view of the growing number of people involved in such investigations, I would ask you to follow this closely. In this way, the effect of the tests, in particular road safety, can also be achieved. They should not be standard tests without the necessary quality, for which people pay a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the electric bicycles were still in the news. I have the impression that there are many questions and misunderstandings about it. Yesterday, the license plates were in full interest. Given the success of the electric bikes, it becomes quite urgent to clarify it. I read in the press yesterday that a legislative initiative will be taken by summer to create a clearer legal framework. Because the users have a lot of questions, I'm asking for some clarification. The speed pedals, the fast bicycles with pedal support that can run up to 45 km/h, have to be registered with the Directorate for Vehicle Registrations (DIV) since 31 March 2014. How many have been registered so far? Do they get a license plate like a moped class B? Does the license plate have the same size or will there be a different format, as it says in the press today? How can safety be guaranteed? The size could be a problem. What measures will the Minister take to resolve this? Which driving licence will be required, a driving licence AM or a driving licence B? What's the location of the speed pedelecs on the road? Does the Minister consider it desirable that the speed pedelecs be allowed to drive on a hunting path and bicycle ostrade? Today they are often banned for mopeds category B. It is desirable that the speed pedelecs should be allowed to use it. How will that be arranged in the Road Code? To what extent will the speed pedelecs be subject to insurance obligations? Does a helmet have to be worn? If so, does it have to comply with the requirements for a moped helmet or for a bicycle helmet? Those are a lot of questions that users are sitting with today and deserve an answer. Are electric bicycles with a maximum speed of 25 km/h and a power of between 250 and 1 000 kilowatts, e.g. electric bikes, seen as a moped or as a bicycle? What are the consequences for the place on the road, for insurance, for helmet duty and so on? What European type-approval are electric bicycles that run faster than 45 km/h within Regulation 168/2013? Have those kind of bikes been homologized in Belgium yet? Are they allowed to be sold at this time? What will be the rules for these bicycles with regard to the registration requirement, the registration plate, the driving licence, the place on the road and the helmet requirement? Finally, what is your view as Minister on the insurance obligation for speed pedelecs and electric bicycles with a maximum speed of 25 kilometers per hour and a power of 250 to 1000 kilowatts? That was a whole series of questions, because today there is a lot of confusion with regard to those electric bicycles. On a proposal from Mr Lahaye-Battheu, Parliament has already called for hearings on this subject. It would be good if we could clarify this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u11	Madam Secretary, I do not have as many questions as my colleague Jef Van den Bergh. However, I would like to ask you a few follow-up questions, Madam Minister, because the electric bicycle remains in the news, mainly because the group of users is increasing and the uncertainty about this in our country is not resolved today. You communicated at the beginning of October, among other things, that the ordinary electric bike might be banned for at least six-year-olds. In connection with the high speed e-bikes, you stated that it is still unclear whether they belong on the bike path or on the lane. My questions are as follows. Can you give us the current situation with regard to the classification? What provisions are attached to each category? What is the reasoning behind the decision to ban ordinary electric bicycles for at least six-year-olds? What is the state of play in the consultations, including with the Regions? In fact, the regions must also participate in the proceedings, taking into account their own powers, including in the area of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u12	I repeat that there has been a broad consultation round: Assuralia, Agoria, the BIVV, Centrex, Federvelo, Febiac, the FOD Economy, the Cyclists Association, GRACQ, the Regions, ECF The European Cyclists Federation and DG MOVE were questioned. On 19 October the draft was discussed with the Cabinets of the relevant regional ministers. A number of things still need to be cleared up, but the sixth state reform has not made things any easier. Fortunately, there is agreement on the broad lines. As far as public roads are concerned, drivers of fast electric bicycles will have to comply with the same rules as moped drivers. However, road managers will have the possibility, by means of signalling, to allow these categories of vehicles to drive in opposite directions in one-way streets and on reserved roads, as well as to require or prohibit them from driving on the bicycle path. The classification provided for in the draft royal decree is summarised in a table which you find in the annex. The license plate and the driving licence for speed pedals are currently identical to those for Class B mopeds. It is intended to introduce a smaller number plate for this category of mopeds in spring 2016. I also repeat that the minimum age for driving a motorised bicycle in the design is set at 16 years, because of the heavier weight of the battery, which makes it not obvious to keep the vehicle in balance, especially if the battery is mounted in the rear. In addition, the higher power of this vehicle is also a reason to introduce a minimum age of 16 years for driving such vehicles. For driving a bicycle everything stays with the old and therefore there is no minimum age of sixteen years. I do not have any information on the number of these vehicles that would have been Homologized in Belgium. If these electric bicycles are Homologized as motorcycles, they may be used on the public road. Vehicles falling within the scope of the EU type-approval regulation may only be sold if they comply with it. So they must have been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u14	I, too, have no response, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u15	Madam Minister, bus and truck drivers must have a certificate of professional competence in accordance with the European Directive from 10 September 2015 and 10 September 2016 respectively. In order to obtain these basic qualifications, they must take 35 hours of lessons and afterwards there is a system of continuous training. Many questions have already been asked about this, but in the field there is still uncertainty as to who should and who should not have the certificate of competence. In this way, it remains unclear whether this legislation also applies to persons who drive a school bus on a voluntary basis. On the website of the FPS Mobility they are not mentioned in the exceptions. Your predecessor said in reply to a question about this: "If someone is paid to drive the school bus, it is not a private business but a professional activity, so the skill is needed. Conversely, a volunteer who is not paid for this does not therefore need professional competence." To my question how many of the drivers to be trained have already followed one or more modules, you replied in January that more than 80% of the drivers are already in order for passenger transport and that freight transport has seen a rapid increase in recent months. Madam Minister, can you state clearly whether or not a person who drives a school bus on a voluntary basis and is therefore not paid should have proof of professional competence? Is there any prospect of additional information initiatives? In the meantime, how many drivers have obtained proof of professional competence? What are the consequences for bus drivers who did not meet the deadline of 10 September 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u16	According to Article 4, § 1, 5° of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2007, the requirement of professional competence does not apply to drivers of vehicles used for non-commercial goods and passenger transport for private purposes. The exemption condition for the use of the vehicle for private purposes means that the driver who drives the vehicle cannot rely on the same exemption provisions in his appeal. It concerns the use for professional purposes. In addition, this also applies to persons driving a category C or D vehicle as a result of their family or leisure activities for non-commercial purposes. It regulates the transport that is carried out as a volunteer. The FPS Mobility and Transport has published on its website a list of frequently asked questions on the scope of the requirements of competence. I only have the figures for the bus drivers. For the TEC, De Lijn and STIB all drivers were trained before 9 September 2015. However, a minority of those drivers did not renew their certificate of competence before 10 September 2015, so that some of them are currently undergoing additional training to reach the 35 hours to be able to drive again. For drivers who do not belong to public transport, my department has the information of the Federation of Belgian Bus and Car Entrepreneurs. According to their figures, 94% of drivers were trained before 9 September 2015. It should be known that this date was only valid for drivers who obtained their certificate of competence before 9 September. Account should be taken of the fact that around 500 to 700 new drivers come each year in the sector. Since 2011, it is estimated that around 2 500 to 3 000 new drivers are active in the sector. These drivers must follow the 35 hours in 2016, 2017 and 2018. It is therefore normal that on 9 September not all drivers renewed their certificate of competence. Finally, I would like to repeat that some have retired or are no longer active in the road transport sector. The consequence of non-following is that those drivers are no longer allowed to drive buses. If the police or the inspection department of my department finds an infringement during a road check, a report shall be drawn up and sent to the court for effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u18	Madam Minister, the 2013 annual report on the extension of access to platforms, referring to Article 41 of the management contract, shows the extent to which the objectives have been achieved in the following two areas. Firstly, the equipment of the platforms with lifts and/or ramps: 50 and 100 stations are equipped at the end of 2018 and at the end of 2028 respectively, creating a network of accessible stations within a radius of 30 kilometres and 15 kilometres respectively. Secondly, the increase in platforms and the installation of tactile tiles for partially sighted people: 160 additional stations and stops equipped with platforms at standard height. Is the 2014 annual report available and, if so, can you hand it over? Can you give a fragmentary account of last year's achievements? I have a question on this too. In early September, SNCB announced that people with reduced mobility will only have to reserve personal assistance for direct connections between 18 major stations three hours in advance from 2016. Right now, that's 24 hours. According to SNCB, the new rule meets two thirds of the customers requesting assistance. I have listed the 18 major stations in my written question. I will not repeat them. SNCB would submit the measure for advice to the National High Council for Persons with Disability. The limitation of the application period for assistance is also included in the resolution adopted unanimously by the Chamber on 2 July. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Can you provide the number of requests for assistance, broken down by station if possible? Is the opinion of the National High Council for Persons with Disability now in and can it be explained? What initiatives are you planning to implement the other aspects of the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u19	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the railway accessibility report with a state of play on the implementations in 2014 is available. I'll hand it over to you in this way. By the end of 2014, 50 station buildings for 57% of passengers were accessible and 37 stations and stops were fully accessible with lifts and access ramps. These 37 accessible stations and stops represent 49.5 % of the number of passengers on the railway network; 232 stations and stops have a standardized platform height for the whole of their platforms. The number of requests for assistance for persons with reduced mobility submitted between 2011 and 2014 shall be provided in the attached document. On 21 September 2015, the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap formulated the positive opinion 2015/27 regarding the proposed adaptation by SNCB of the reservation period in 18 stations. As regards certain initiatives, stakeholders are consulted and invited to participate in the surveys carried out on the equipment and on the purchase of future M7 vehicles. With regard to the automation of the card "Costless Guide" a study is currently being carried out with the Cross Point Bank, with a view to its automated release at the stations. On the other hand, the National Public Transport Reduction Card is issued by the Social Security Office and not by SNCB. With regard to the use of the vending machines by persons with reduced mobility, SNCB wishes to offer all customers a choice between different sales channels so that they can hold a ticket when they get on the train. The vending machines are a means to this end, alongside the other possibilities. There are also numerous tariff facilities, such as various Pass options, the card for ten single journeys, subscriptions and so on. Persons who are not in possession of those official cards shall be subject to the same conditions as other travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u20	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u21	Madam President, Madam Minister, on October 8, as is customary in trade union movements at SNCB and Infrabel, the railway workers wanted to dialogue with colleagues in the signal booth to make them aware of the action and try to convince them, if necessary, to stop the work. Nevertheless, this time, a bailiff and armed police officers were waiting for the strikers to notify them of the order of the court of first instance in Brussels, following a unilateral request by Infrabel. This order prohibits anyone from entering the signal booths of Brussels-Nord, Midi and Central. This is a fundamental breach of the right of railway workers to strike. It is also a sprain to one aspect that is dear to you: safety. For example, by requiring officers to fire trains longer than 16 hours when they can only do so for a maximum of 8 hours, safety measures may be considered not to be complied with. It is irresponsible to ask workers to work under conditions such as these with only two out of thirteen agents who were in the cabin, which calls into question this aspect of safety. Minister, in these circumstances, I would like to ask you the following two questions. How can we ensure that railway workers' right to strike is respected in the future? Would you like each notice given to be followed by such reactions from the officials of SNCB, Infrabel and HR at the risk of crumbling the concertation and increasing the number of wild strikes but also of undermining the safety of passengers and workers in the context of these strike movements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u22	Madam Secretary, after the strikes of 8 and 9 October 2015, Infrabel went to court and there it was right on two important points. First of all, the strikers were not allowed to enter the signal houses. Secondly, the strikers were forbidden to enter the tracks during their actions. We welcome the fact that Infrabel is finally daring to take action against those who are illegally occupying the tracks. The French-speaking socialist union seems to think it is above the law, because it simply ignores this judgment. There was an incident at the Brussels-South signal house on the evening of 8 October. Some trade unionists blocked access to the signal house and refused access to workers. On 9 October they went one step further by walking on the tracks and throwing stones and metal objects there. The result is more than thirteen thousand minutes of delays and 187 partial and 575 completely abolished trains. This is a disaster for our rail transport and our economy. These anarchist practices of trade unionists are completely unacceptable to us. Safety is being compromised. I do not understand Mrs Grovonius when she says that security was compromised because Infrabel took those people with a court order off the tracks. It seems to me rather the other way round that trade unionists are compromising safety. By walking on the tracks, of course, one gives a very wrong signal. Workers who do something similar in another company, i.e. with the resources of the employer themselves shut down the company, have fewer rights and might be fired. Madam Minister, how many violations by how many persons were detected in the framework of the strike actions on 8 and 9 October 2015? How were they punished? What sanctions do they risk? Do you think it would be desirable for such individuals, who put safety at risk in such a way, to continue to work on the railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u23	Mrs Grovonius, Infrabel informs me that she is increasingly confronted with a growing phenomenon in the context of social movements. People descend briefly on the tracks in order to disrupt rail traffic as much as possible. Infrabel has, therefore, decided, depending on the particular risk presented by each social movement, to request orders preventing the movement on the roads from any unauthorized person. Infrabel does not intend to limit the right to form strike pickets or the right to strike as recognized in Belgian positive law. Infrabel only wants to prevent pedestrians from travelling on the tracks for fundamental safety reasons. Infrabel informs me that the persons to whom the facts of 8 and 9 October 2015 are accused do not belong to any company of the Belgian railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to draw your attention to a report by the European Committee of Social Rights which criticises Belgian case law on the intervention of the judge in the event of a strike. Indeed, it seems to me to be an interesting element. A decision was taken on 13 September 2011. I will not go into the details of this claim, which has been made by several trade union confederations, but it highlights the fact that, by these decisions, on the basis of a unilateral request, we did not have a sufficient, precise legal basis. This, in a way, undermines procedural fairness in that trade union organisations do not have the opportunity to make their views known in a meaningful way. According to the European Committee of Social Rights, the risk is that the right to strike will become more restrictive than is necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the company and non-worker. I just wanted to draw your attention to this element that I think is interesting in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I would also like to respond to Mr Grovonius' reply. It is true that a unilateral application is made by those courts, but the judge cannot do otherwise. The opposite party, in particular the trade union, has no legal personality. We believe that the trade unions should have legal personality. The problem of one-sided petitions will then be resolved immediately. Madam Minister, in your reply I also hear that no one belonged to the railway company of the people who occupied the tracks and the signalling stations. That almost knocks me off my chair. Then why do they have to strike? It is scandalous that the trade unions are recruiting such people to commit criminal acts. I do not understand why they should then stop for a better statute and so on. For me, this has nothing to do with the right to strike, but with malicious actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u26	Madam President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 6874 to be converted into a written question. This subject has already been addressed in the discussion of the policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u27	Madam President, I also have a follow-up question. We talked about this a few months ago. In the spring, it became known that SNCB had evaluated and modified the operation of the bicycle points. The cycling points were started in 2007 on the initiative of the Flemish government together with the federal government and the then SNCB-Holding. Several stakeholders were involved in this operation: SNCB, the federal and Flemish authorities, provincial and municipal authorities, but also Blue-bike and De Lijn, for example. Currently, SNCB is looking for efficiency gains of around 25% at the bicycle points, starting from the finding that its own staff could carry out certain tasks more efficiently or better. Some of the tasks performed by the bicycle points are the core tasks of SNCB, for example ensuring the cleanliness and monitoring of the bicycle sheds. Other tasks are not really core tasks, such as bicycle repair, bicycle rental and so on. However, it is clear that the services provided at these bicycle points provide added value in the context of multimodal transport. In the Committee of 10 June 2015, you stated that at the end of the existing agreements in 15 stations, these services will no longer be allocated through a public contract. The survival of 15 other bicycle points depended on the financial balance sheet of the organisations concerned. Some services in the bicycle points would take over SNCB and for the other services new agreements would be concluded with adapted services. The Regions and the municipalities would be involved in the process. Interdepartmental meetings were planned. With the new management contract in mind, there is a need to clarify the vision of cycling points in the coming years. They will therefore be anchored in the new management contract. Madam Minister, what about the search for an alternative service for the 15 bicycle points that might be closed? What are the plans? With which of the aforementioned stakeholders who can and want to commit to the future of the bicycle points, has the Minister consulted? Has this consultation already taken place, or will it be? Madam Minister, what do you think of the option of temporarily extending the current cycling point agreements so that there is more time to come up with solutions? When will a new tender be launched for the remaining bicycle points and for how many years will they be issued? How many stations are involved in a call for tenders for a bicycle point with the current service and how many stations are involved in a call for tenders for a more limited service, for example in terms of maintenance and cleanliness, but no longer in terms of repair services? How do you want to anchor your vision on the bicycle points and the services provided there in the upcoming management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u28	Madam Minister, the problem has already been outlined by my colleague. I agree with his statement and add the following questions. Will the decision of the Management Board remain final, as will the planned timing? Or are there any other options to adjust? The measure aims at an efficiency gain of 25%, as you replied in June. Can you explain these savings, and possibly also specify and detail them by station where the bicycle points are threatened?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u29	SNCB is currently looking at which services are essential and where it can work more efficiently at all its levels. For example, it wants to adapt its services to the needs of customers and the size of the stations. Larger stations need more supervision of the bicycle sheds than smaller ones. For smaller stations, SNCB will in future go for punctual cleanliness actions and specific tasks. The decision of the management committee of SNCB is final and the timing is maintained. The bike sheds remain in service everywhere and are available to travellers. The contract with the bicycle point will not be renewed in a number of locations and for a number of stations the assignments will be reduced. In addition to the savings, orders are issued for punctual actions, such as orphan bicycle actions, to be carried out in the affected stations as well as in other stations. The overall savings are estimated at around EUR 350 000 per year. SNCB has given me the figures by station and I will send them to you in writing. SNCB has divided the stations into three categories: A stations with more than 2 500 passengers per day and more than 1 000 bicycle stations, B stations with more than 2 400 passengers per day and less than 1 000 bicycle stations and C stations with less than 2 400 passengers per day. The following applies to the A stations. For 12 stations, such as Gent-Sint-Pieters and Gent-Dampoort, nothing will change. In 24 B stations, including Roeselare, SNCB will demand a lower level of service and thus also pay a lower performance fee. In the C stations, such as Eeklo's, SNCB will no longer require performance at the bicycle points. If the bicycle point wishes to continue its operation, they may remain in the station building and SNCB will no longer charge the occupancy fee as start-up aid from stage 4. SNCB plans to publish the contract before the start of 2016. The contract will be issued for four years. The tasks that are outsourced are similar to the previous period, in particular brushing, order, supervision, permanence and orphan bicycle actions. Repairs of bicycles and the like are services that develop the bicycle points themselves in the station. SNCB does not pay any remuneration for these services. However, I would like to make every effort to promote the use of the bicycle in combination with the train. The future of cycling points and their sources of funding will therefore be discussed within the intermodality platform, which will be set up very soon and in which the Regions will be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There are a number of positive elements, such as the principle that the co-modality between bike and train should be further developed. This will have to be addressed in the next management agreement and in the forthcoming policy. Another positive point is that cycling points which, despite the closure of the funding by SNCB, wish to continue to operate, possibly at a lower level, can still maintain their location in a SNCB building. I am concerned about the evolution of cleanliness in those smaller stations, where the bicycle points will disappear. It will have to be evaluated and monitored. The sector had asked for a longer transition period to seek alternative funding. What I do regret is that the timing envisaged is now maintained and therefore there is no longer a transitional period. But, as I said, I think we should do everything we can to further improve the co-modality between bike and train.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I interpret your answer in the same way as Mr Van den Bergh. The bike gets an increasingly important share in the pre- and post-transport to the stations. Stations are nodes of different transport networks. I therefore hope that all the players will refer you to the consultation with the Regions in order to ensure that, taking into account the reduced contribution of SNCB, no major step backwards is taken in a number of places. That would be a negative evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u32	Madam Minister, a while ago I asked you a question about the flash photos and making them available in an online digital window. Where do you stand with that? Has there been consultation with the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers and the Regions on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u33	Mrs Dumery, there is a discussion between Mobility, Home Affairs and Justice on the procedure for handling the immediate collections. The margin also covered the possibility of digitally making available the photographs of the automatic camera dynamometers. In fact, this is a further application of the ICT possibilities to deal fully digitally with traffic offences, whereby the offender can pay his fine via a digital window and consult the photos of the speeding offence. However, in view of the priorities set, no concrete agreement has yet been reached on this matter. Since speeding offences are partly regional issues, the Regions will also have something to say in criminal policy. The subject could be discussed in the context of discussions with the Regions on criminal policy in relation to speeding offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u34	Madam Minister, we are all convinced that the digital handling of such dossiers, especially of the immediate collection, is important. When different ministries, federal or regional, have to work together around one digital platform, we also know that this cooperation is always problematic. My next questions are about that, too. However, I regret that no concrete agreements have yet been reached, and I hope that this will be done soon, so that the digital platform will still be implemented in this legislative period. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, in case of loss or theft of a personalised number plate one cannot apply for a duplicate, one must apply for a new number plate and pay another EUR 1 000. For special number plates, such as for ministers and the royal house, and for CD registration plates, a duplicate can be requested. That feels very unfair. If we accept the principle of the personalised number plate, why are we still making a distinction? Madam Secretary, do you intend to review this and treat the personalised number plates like any other?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, in the event of evidence of loss or theft, the code of the registration plate is permanently blocked and no duplicate can be obtained. In order to prevent abuse of individuals who simply want to change their preferred number, we cannot allow a new personalised registration plate to be issued at the normal EUR 30 issue fee. In specialised car shops antithefts can be obtained at democratic prices. The rules on duplicates of specialised number plates will therefore not be reviewed. In the event of a new registration, the fee specified in the Royal Decree will be retained as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u37	Madam President, Minister, we cannot always agree with each other. As a Member of this House, I find this unfair. Either we allow the principle of the personalised number plate, or not. Once we decide that this is possible, I don't see why there is a difference between an automatic system or an own code in case of loss or theft. I do not agree with that, but sometimes we may differ, so thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u38	Madam President, Madam Minister, Kafka rules when it comes to curbing road pirates. About three years ago I read in De Standaard that a person whose driving licence was withdrawn because of a serious breach of the road code could very easily pick up a new driving licence from the municipality. He only had to report the loss of his driving licence to the police, which was the same body that had withdrawn his driving licence. The declaration was sufficient to obtain a duplicate from the municipality. Everyone will agree that this is hallucinating. In the Journal of 21 October, the police judge Peter Döhondt once again pleaded for a single central database linking all traffic offences and all judgments. The Mercurius crossroads bank, which has to keep track of whose driving licence is withdrawn, is reportedly still not working properly after two years of implementation. For example, persons whose driving licences were withdrawn are still able to easily obtain a duplicate of their driving licence. I must not remind you, Madam Minister, that Belgium is not a good pupil in the field of road safety. We are doing worse than our neighbours. I believe that this kind of thing should be a reason to do better. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. Why is the Mercury crossroads still not working properly? What are your views on the proposal of the police judge to link all databases, ANG, MACH and Mercury, to one central database? Are you consulting with the Minister for Justice, Mr Geens, who has plans for digitisation? Are steps already being taken to achieve integration today? Finally, and this is the most important question, when will the central database be there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u39	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Temmerman has already outlined the issues in her introduction. The problem is that an immediate withdrawal of the driving licence in a particular police area is not known to the neighboring police area, so the person simply continues to drive around. No one knows if that person is allowed to drive or not. Police judges complain that there needs to be more enforcement and more follow-up with regard to the decline of the right to direct. In the digital age in which we live, it is unbelievable that there is still no database linking all data. A few years ago, the Mercury project was founded. Then it always ended up in a consultation between the FPS Mobility, the FPS Justice and the FPS Home Affairs. Madam Minister, there have already been a number of poignant examples, including in Brussels, of people who have been driving for years without a driving licence without ever being checked. I am thinking in particular of a perpetrator, a young twentiest, who also caused a fatal accident. This really raises questions about the necessity and urgency of the database. So my question is when the database will be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I agree with what has already been said. What is the state of play in the consultation with the FPS Justice and the FPS Home Affairs in order to achieve a complete data exchange? After all, this is a joint competence. There is therefore a need for cooperation in order to achieve results. What obstacles may still need to be removed? Will the Mercury database only contain information on who has a driving licence or not? At least that's what I heard. Or will it also mention whether a driving licence has been revoked, whether its validity has expired, etc.? That is, of course, the most interesting information on this issue. What is the timing of operationalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u41	Madam President, the crossroads bank of driving licences, established by the Law of 14 April 2011, provides for the exchange of data of different origins. It is already operational for the identity data coming from the National Register, the examination results coming from the driving examination centres and the electronic exchange via EUCARIS and RESPER. The data relating to the lapse of the right to direct belong to the jurisdiction of the FPS Justice. At present, no data is transmitted electronically by the Justice Department to the crossroads bank. The Mercury project provides for a link between the Justice database and the crossroads bank of driving licences. The data to be forwarded shall include the lapse of the right to send and the immediate withdrawal. Retrieving is done in real time, which means that the requested situation always corresponds to reality. At any time, the police and the municipalities will be able to consult the crossroads bank of the driving licences and an immediate call will be made to the database of Justice. The project has already been launched and thus complies with the principle of a central database, with the understanding that each department continues to manage its own data. The linking of both databases can happen once the necessary IT developments have taken place in the FPS Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u42	Madam Secretary, no date has yet been set? Thank you for your explanation, but we already knew that. We already knew what was possible. Exactly making that crossroads bank operational will prevent what is happening. Mr Dumery cited the example of someone whose driving licence was taken, but who managed to obtain a new driving licence and then caused another fatal accident. That couldn't happen again after making that crossroads bank operational. I'll ask my questions to the Minister of Justice. I understand from your answer that the knot is currently at that level, in the sense that it is not being transmitted. I also understand that there is a need to provide funding and to make that crossroads bank operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can only add that this is a poignant situation. I will address the Minister of Justice with this question. In this respect, there is an urgent need to set out the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the driving licence with points is beginning to become a stick horse of mine. I am not going to repeat my explanatory statement entirely; you know why we think it is so important. It's also in the coalition agreement. Where are you on the investigation? Is there a possibility? What is the timetable you use to get there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u45	Madam President, the government agreement clearly states that the government wants to take a systematic approach to the repetition and that the government will consider the most appropriate instruments, such as the driving licence with points. The study material available to me shows that the driving licence with points as such is not a panacea. On the one hand, there are different framework conditions that must be met and, on the other hand, the likely effects on road safety should not be overestimated. As far as the latter is concerned, it is generally assumed that a short-term effect can be noted in particular. The framework conditions relate in particular to the need to keep the number of checks sufficiently high, to the proper functioning of the judicial system, to the prevention of possible abuses and to the budgetary and administrative aspects of their introduction. In addition, the recent introduction, at the beginning of this year, of the cross-recidivism system is expected, with the recurrence of one of the six most serious offences within three years leading to at least three months' driving ban and the obligation to take the four recovery examinations. I asked the BIVV to examine the effects of the introduction of this new system of relapses and also to carry out an information campaign to increase their preventive effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, perhaps it is correct that it will not be a panacea to deal with repeated cases. As far as the expected effects are concerned, there are studies that indicate one and there are studies that indicate the other. At the moment, we punish young drivers much more than older drivers, and there is also injustice in this. I see justice in a driving licence with points rather than in, for example, stricter penalties for drivers who only have a driving licence for two years. I look forward to your evaluation, which will be carried out through the BIVV, but I still think there is a lot to be found in a driving licence with points. Maybe we can find each other there at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u47	Madam Minister, in about ten days the new States General of Road Safety will take place, the successor to the 2011 edition of four years ago. In an open letter at the end of October, you called on citizens to launch proposals that could improve road safety through the website. At a first evaluation time about a month ago, at the beginning of November, more than two thousand people appeared to have responded. A simpler traffic regulations emerged from this as a much mentioned track. How do you evaluate the survey today? In what way will the results of the survey be discussed at the next States General?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u48	The General States of Road Safety 2015 marks half of a decade of road safety action. The goal of reducing the number of people killed on our roads by 50% between 2010 and 2020 will be difficult or impossible to achieve without a radical change in user behaviour. We were pleasantly surprised by the high response and the commitment of road users. Almost seven thousand citizens gave an opinion on the website. Given the dispersion of competences in the field of road safety, I wanted to focus citizens on the subjects that fall within the competence of the federal state and on which I can act in practice. I hear a lot of recommendations related to infrastructure or signage, but it is the road manager who is responsible for their development or placement. The States-General of Road Safety of 15 December 2015 therefore focuses on five key policy themes: road code, technology, accident analysis, the chance of getting caught and the recidivism. These five themes were discussed in detail during the debates that took place in Brussels during the week of 16 November 2015, over three evenings. Every evening other people participated in the working groups. They were invited by the BIVV to the working groups on the basis of their input on the website sgvv2015.be For each theme, some experts were present who could test the ideas and proposals according to their feasibility. The aim now is to start working on the results of these debates and to bring them together. On 15 December, the substantive preparation by the citizens and the experts will be brought together at the State General. New road safety measures will be announced on that day. Citizens' input will serve as a basis for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u49	Madam Minister, I congratulate you on the success of the new initiatives. You received almost seven thousand replies on the website. This means that people are getting into their pen and are constructive when a call is launched to think along an important goal such as increased road safety. I look forward to 15 December and the new measures you will announce.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u50	Madam President, Minister, this is actually a follow-up question. I have not yet submitted the question to you, but to your predecessor. In the previous legislature, your predecessor instructed the BIVV to examine the principle of green cyclists at the same time. Both cyclists and pedestrians get green light at crossroads in all directions at the same time, thus excluding conflicts with motorised traffic. Your predecessor then announced that further research was needed at a number of pilot sites in order to formulate further recommendations. It was then necessary to examine with the Regions whether they would be inclined to amend traffic legislation to that effect. An adaptation of Article 61.3.2, 1° of the traffic rules is then necessary. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is your vision regarding all bikers and pedestrians at the same time? Can this improve road safety and mobility? As a minister, have you had any contact with the Regions on this matter? What's their vision? Do you plan a number of pilot sites. This will probably also have to be done in cooperation with road managers..................................................................................................................................................................................... The BIVV was a requesting party to its first investigation. Do you consider it desirable to make the principle legally possible? If so, can you include this in the road code adjustments planned for 2016? So far my questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u51	Like my predecessor in the previous reign, I am in principle interested in allowing pedestrians and cyclists to cross a crossroads while the traffic lights are on red for motorised traffic from all directions. This means that pedestrians and cyclists have green light for all crossing directions during this phase. These non-motorised road users can then cross around the intersection, or cross diagonally. We assume that this will avoid risky meetings between vehicles turning off and cyclists moving straight ahead. A car-free crossroads area is comfortable for cyclists and pedestrians who want to cross. Pedestrians and cyclists will have to exercise a bit more patience to cross during the all-direction-green phase. I am prepared to include such a system explicitly in the road code, but I assume that the current road code text does not hinder the application of this principle already. We can do the rules (...) by providing a bottom plate or a lens of light on which all directions are symbolically arranged. Planning pilot sites is a matter for road managers and the Regions. The federal government is not empowered to take the initiative in this. The BIVV is indeed willing to follow up and evaluate one or more pilot projects. For this purpose, the BIVV should cooperate with initiating road managers. In my view, the current road code does not constitute an absolute obstacle to the simultaneous greening of the road. The cars from all directions get red at the same time and the pedestrians and/or cyclists get green in all directions based on two-colour traffic lights. The green phase, in which all directions get green at the same time, must not be realized with three-colored lights, but with two-colored traffic lights. The road code could therefore include the possibility of achieving the green phase with three-coloured lights. In addition, the road code could further explicitly include and regulate this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u52	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u53	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the Advisory Committee of Train Passengers. In March last year, a draft law on the reform of the Advisory Committee was adopted in this House. The aim of the legislative amendment was to professionalise the organisation that defends the interests of travellers and key stakeholders, thus contributing to the further development of SNCB into a customer-oriented company. Some minor changes were made in July of this year. More specifically, it concerns the possibility for you as Minister to seek advice from that Committee in the event of urgency, with the Committee having to give its opinion within 10 working days. In addition, a joint agreement should be reached on the rules of cooperation between SNCB and the Committee. It is only after these amendments that the Committee can be constituted. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you today whether all the formalities have been completed and whether the Committee and the Bureau have been put together. To what extent are travellers represented in this Committee? In the meantime, is there a cooperation agreement between SNCB and the Committee? Could you possibly explain this or specify a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u54	The Advisory Committee of Train Travellers has now been set up. It consists of 26 members working and 26 alternates. For the membership of the Committee, I refer to the Ministerial Decision of 20 August 2015 appointing the members of the Advisory Committee of Train Travellers. The organisations represented within the Advisory Committee include representative representatives of young people, of the elderly, of environmental organisations, or of cyclists and of a number of representative organisations for the interests of users of public transport, such as, to mention some, TrainTramBus, the Travelers Association or Navetteurs.be. The Bureau of the Advisory Committee was set up, taking into account the desire to ensure a double balance, linguistically and in terms of gender. In addition to the president, the Bureau was composed of representatives of the following three associations: Comeos, ABVV and Family Association vzw. The internal rules of the Advisory Committee are currently being drawn up by the Committee bureau and will be submitted to all members before the end of this year. The cooperation agreement will be the subject of consultations between SNCB and the Committee. However, the Committee Bureau would like to adopt an internal regulation before laying down the rules of cooperation with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u55	Madam President, Minister, thank you for this state of affairs and I will continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u56	Madam Minister, Article 27a of the Road Code lays down the procedures for parking in parking spaces reserved for people with disabilities. These parking spaces are reserved for vehicles used by persons with disabilities who hold the parking card for people with disabilities, as laid down in the Ministerial Decree of 7 May 1999. That card shall be visible under the windscreen. In practice, for example, a school bus with students with disabilities should not park on board in places reserved for persons with disabilities. The students do not always have their parking card everywhere. The same applies to vans from care institutions. They must also have at least one parking card in the van. What is your view on the use of parking spaces for people with disabilities by a school van or by health care institutions for people with disabilities? Is it desirable for these vans to be allowed to park in these reserved places without a personal parking card? Why is that, or why not? Is it desirable for these schools or institutions to have their own parking card for the transport of people with disabilities? Why is that, or why not? Do you think it is necessary that students or people from a health care institution have their own personal card available each time in order to use the reserved parking spaces? Do you consider that an amendment to the current rules is desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u57	Mr Demon, I would like to point out in advance that there is still a need for consultation with the State Secretary responsible for Persons with disabilities and with stakeholders in the framework of the work to revise the traffic regulations in 2016. Article 27a of the traffic rules provides that parking spaces for disabled persons are reserved for vehicles used by disabled persons holding a parking card. The parking space may therefore be occupied by any vehicle type. The vehicle carrying disabled persons may be parked in reserved places where one of the persons transported holds the parking card. Both adults and children are entitled to a parking card if the conditions for granting the card relating to the recognition of invalidity are fulfilled. There is therefore no need for a specialised institution to have a personal card to park on a reserved pitch. With regard to the granting of parking tickets to institutions, I refer to the opinions of the National High Council for Persons with Disability, which remains in favour of retaining the grant only to natural persons who fulfil the conditions of the grant. There is therefore no reason to consider changing the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u58	Just so you're clear, you're not gonna change your point of view. If, for example, the school organises the transport of children from home to school, the children with physical disabilities must always have the card with them. They, but also the parents, could lose them. You are not in favour of the school or the institution getting a card itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u59	Madam Minister, we have heard that the renovated pig noses, which would normally be coming to the Kempen by the end of this year, have been delayed for four months because of the safeguards of the couples. The first renovated pig noses would only be to be admired in March or April on the Kempense tracks. Is it true that the deployment of these renovated train sets has been delayed? Do you consider four months realistic to solve the problems? Or do the commuters have to wait any longer? Is compensation provided for train passengers who have to wait four months longer and who are now travelling in rattling carriages with smelly toilets that are useless, and with dirty, worn-out seats? In the meantime, a number of old pig noses would be replaced by Desiro. Will this also be the case on the Turnhout-Binche and Turnhout-Antwerp lines? If so, how many Desiros are we talking about? How will they be deployed? Finally, in the Kempen there are still some files pending, such as the upgrading of the stations Herentals and Turnhout and the doubling of the track between Herentals and Turnhout. What is the current state of affairs in these cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u60	Madam Secretary, my question concerns the same type-800 devices, better known as pig noses. Apparently there is a delay in the renovation project, which has a number of consequences and raises a number of questions. Is the claim that the project has been delayed for four months? What are the causes? I've spoken to some people who say there'd be asbestos in the old trains. I believe that this is possible, given the production process at the time. It's important to know if that rumor is true. How many pig noses were effectively renovated? What innovation was applied to the type-800 sets? In previous debates on the renovation works, SNCB has stated that the renovation is rather expensive, and up to 80% of the price of a new appliance, which is often more performant. Is this a decision that can be taken in the future? There would also be talk of bridging the gap with the Desiros. Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... Desiro... They use a lot of electricity on longer routes. After how many train kilometres should the couples go into maintenance? What does this mean for employability? What's the relationship with new train sets? Is there any clarity about the multi-annual investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u61	With regard to the delay in the renovation of the pig noses, SNCB informs me that the renovation of the first four-wheel engine has been completed since July 2015 and that the various technical tests have been carried out. However, according to the regulations in force, the engine must be re-homologized before it can be re-used for commercial services. However, during the approval process, some difficulties emerged which put the deadline at risk. SNCB and the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service are looking for a solution that makes it possible to keep this delay to the strict minimum. A total of 44 four-wheel motorsets are being renovated. According to current planning, the last motor vehicle would be modernised by 2020. The renovation consists of a complete renovation of the interior to increase comfort. SNCB states that the price for a renovation is half cheaper than the purchase of new equipment. A thorough review of the Desirostellen takes place every 14 000 km and an ongoing maintenance every 40 000 km. As far as the stakes on the Turnhout-Binche and Turnhout-Antwerp lines are concerned, from 15 December 2015, certain trains from the Turnhout-Binche connection will indeed run with Desiro. It's about ten trains a day during the week. The new P-trains on the Mol-Brussels line will also run with Desiro. Also on the connection Turnhout-Antwerp will drive Desiro. It's about 15 trains a day during the week. On the weekends, they'll all be riding with Desiro. Although Desiros are better suited to suburban traffic, they are now also used on certain IC or P connections due to material defects. As the pig noses will be renovated, they will be deployed on the Turnhout-Binche connection. With regard to the solution of a new multiannual plan for investment, as you know, the solution of such a plan is under way. A number of Kempense files will also be covered in this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is not really reassuring to hear that a solution is being sought, but that it has not yet been found. I hear mostly that those four months are not yet certain. In the meantime, it is a good thing that Desiros will be deployed on that line. We look forward to the answer on the evolution of the Kempense train records.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I did not receive an answer to my question on the presence of asbestos. Is it true that there was asbestos in those old types 800? As for the Desiro, better a Desiro than no train, of course. However, this has an impact on energy consumption costs. We thought that the presence of asbestos was one of the reasons for the delay, but I will put a written question to confirm it or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u64	Madam Minister, I have a rather short question about something that is very bizarre in 2015. In Belgium, in the case of SNCB, blind or partially sighted travellers are entitled to free second-class transport and to a free companion when they are dominated in our country and are effectively resident there. However, the same persons who come from the Netherlands and use the Belgian railways and can also identify themselves with a special card cannot use them. It is remarkable that we in Europe are still faced with such matters in 2015. A disability does not stop at the border and it should be logical for a foreigner with a disability to enjoy the same rights as our own residents. At European level, European Commissioner for Social Affairs Marianne Thyssen is working on a European Disability Card, a European disability card, which gives disabled people the same rights as its own citizens in all countries. The map would enter into force from the beginning of 2016. However, according to Secretary of State Elke Sleurs, it is impossible to grant the same rights in the field of transport as to its own residents, as there are too many differences between the social rates of the Member States. I find that strange, and hence the following questions, Madam Secretary. Are you aware of the proposed problem? Are you prepared to find a solution to this? Have you had any discussions with Secretary of State Elke Sleurs? If so, what were the findings of the consultation? What solutions are offered? What measures will be taken? What's the timing of this? If no, is a consultation planned? When will it be possible to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u65	The charging of public transport varies from country to country, and for regional transport from region to region. Until now, this is also the case for social rates. I am indeed aware that this sometimes raises problems, as you point out. A solution to this is certainly desirable and I support the initiatives at European level, including Mrs Thyssen's on the European Disability Card. SNCB also participates in the discussions on this subject through the CER working groups. However, due to the different national social security systems, it has not yet reached agreement within the European Union on the BPM Statute. I think it is appropriate to make maximum use of a European agreement before holding the debate with the regionally competent ministers. In any case, my cabinet is in regular contact with Mrs Sleurs' and with the representatives of the National High Council for Persons with a disability for all aspects of accessibility for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u66	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for her willingness to offer a solution. The rates are indeed different from one public transport company to another, even in neighbouring countries, but I believe that people with a card with which they can demonstrate their disability should still have the same rights as domestic travellers. That is why I would like to continue to argue in favour of finding solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u67	Madam Minister, the Belgian State was sentenced by default by the Brussels Court of First Instance on 11 May and 1 June 2015 for the use of the so-called "Leuven Rechtdoor" road. The two judgments were each accompanied by a penalty payment of EUR 50 000 per day of delay, i.e. a total of EUR 100 000, due from 1 September. Judgments were served on June 5. My question will not deal with the substance of this case. Indeed, you were already able to answer us in committee on 10 June last on the substance of the problem. The fact that this judgment was rendered by default – in fact, no lawyer had been appointed to defend the interests of the Belgian State – was explained by, I quote, "an involuntary hiatus which will not be repeated in the communication between the firm, the SPF Mobility and the firm of Stibbe lawyers". The newspaper L'Echo, on the other hand, reveals this November 30th, that in fact the quotations were served to the cabinet of Minister Galant, but that his collaborators would have forgotten to inform the SPF Mobility and Transport, which, therefore, could not entrust the file to its law firm – Stibbe – which usually follows the file. It appears that, in this case, the two cases relating to the Leuven Rechtdoor had been lost. The responsibility would therefore lie entirely at the level of your firm. This imprudentness is likely to cost the Belgian State. Although the Mobility FPS ultimately opposed the two judgments, these judgments are indeed enforceable. The periodic penalty payments have been formally due since early September. The bill is therefore likely to be salty, knowing that the implementation of the alternatives to this air route will not be effective until March 2016 according to Belgocontrol, quoted in the press. Hence, Madam Minister, my three questions. Have periodic penalty payments already been required by the municipalities of Rotselaar, Haacht, Holsbeek and the City of Aarschot, at the origin of this action for cessation? What initiatives have you taken both internally in your firm and externally in relation to your administration, in order to minimize the financial consequences of this new recklessness? What is the status of the implementation of the alternatives to the Leuven Rechtdoor road? Will this alternative be part of the overall plan that you will be presenting to us in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u68	Mr President, Mr Hellings, the communes of Rotselaar, Haacht and Holsbeek and the city of Aarschot have ordered the State to cease the use of the flight route known as Leuven Rechtdoor on the ground, first, of a violation of the law of 13 February 2006, then of a violation of the principle of proportionality between the inconvenience caused by the use of this route and the benefits derived from it and, finally, of a violation of the Flemish decree of 21 October 1997 concerning the conservation of nature and the natural environment. The Belgian State was not represented at the introductory hearing on 12 March 2015, as has already been said on several occasions. Default judgements were therefore rendered on 7 and 11 May 2015. Such judgments shall be enforceable by provision. The judgments of 11 May 2015 (Haacht, Holsbeek and Aarschot) were served on the State on 1 June 2015. The judgment of 7 May 2015 (Rotselaar) was served on 5 June 2015. The Belgian State is thus obliged to cease the use of the Leuven Rechtdoor flight route within three months of the service of the judgment, thus before 1 September 2015, under penalty of a penalty of 50 000 euros per day in case of non-compliance with this prohibition, judgment identical to that of the Wathelet plan. Following these stops, instructions were issued on 23 June 2015 in Belgocontrol to stop the use of the Leuven Rechtdoor road and to return as soon as possible to the Leuven West road, which was in use before 6 March 2014. The return to the Leuven West road is expected in March 2016. The State objected to all the grounds invoked by the complainants and, in the alternative, to the time limit for execution. The oral hearing in this opposition proceeding took place on 16 November 2015. The judgement is expected by the end of December 2015. A formal agreement was reached between the parties. The municipalities will not claim payment of periodic penalty payments for the duration of the opposition proceedings, on the understanding that if the president confirms the judgment, the municipalities are free to claim periodic penalty payments retroactively from 1 September 2015 and that, if the president decides not to confirm the judgment or at least nullifies the ancillary conviction, the periodic penalty payments will not be due by the Belgian State. If the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance confirms the judgment, the State may still appeal against that decision. Nevertheless, the ruling of the President of the Court of First Instance will be enforceable by provision. As for the penalty payments that the applicants would demand if the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance were to reject our opposition, the State still has the possibility of opposing the command to pay the seizure judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u69	Madam Minister, you did not answer my second question, which dealt with the initiatives that you took in the articulation between your office and the administration to avoid the repetition of the absence of government representation at a hearing, as was the case last summer. It is important that it can be defended, not only for reasons of justice, but also for budgetary reasons. In addition, you must maintain regular and calm contact with the administration, otherwise this kind of situation can be reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u70	As I told you when I presented my policy note, the entire administration was present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u71	I know, you told me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u72	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u73	Of course, to such an extent that the State is condemned by default because the administration and your firm do not communicate. There is a difference between being absent from a six-hour commission and having the state condemned because you were in default and you had not initiated viable and reliable procedures – it is your political responsibility! – for the State to be legally represented when it is attacked. In any event, on the merits, the condemnation of the State in the case of the Leuven Rechtdoor road – and that is the same reason why the Wathelet plan was attacked – leads me to encourage you to balance the situation, even if it is difficult, with regard to the establishment of the roads and to focus on the elements on which all the associations of residents agree, whether they are from Leuven Rechtdoor, the Oostrand, the Noordrand or the centre of Brussels. I want to talk about the night. If you could work in this direction, you would no longer be subject to these multiple convictions, which are always handed down for the same reasons – noise – and which result from summonses to justice by an impressive number of associations. Working on the night would lead to a more sustainable and ultimately less costly solution for the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament 7233 by Mr Geerts and No. Mr Devin's 7447 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u75	On 28 October 2015, the European Council agreed to the implementation of the new emissions tests for cars. The so-called real driving emissions tests will start from 2017. Between 2017 and 2019, 110 % can be deviated from the Euro6 standard, which sets a maximum emission of 80 milligrams of nitrogen oxide per kilometre. From 2020 new Audi A6s may vary by 50%. I would like to point out once again that with this proposal the Council is abandoning the European Commission's proposal. New cars were allowed to vary 60% between 2017 and 2019 and only 20% from 2019 onwards. It seems that the Member States have once again given in to the voice of the car lobby. The extent to which new cars will be allowed to exceed the standard in the coming years is a crucial element in the debate, given the recent fraud of car manufacturers Volkswagen and the systematic exceedance of the Euronormation by a large number of diesel cars. Now it's about Volkswagen, but we're all convinced that it's the same with other car brands. This element is crucial because Belgium in particular is failing to achieve the objectives of the NEC Directive. On the contrary, the European Commission believes that Belgium has been making insufficient efforts to reduce pollution for years and calls for urgent action. Otherwise, proceedings before the European Court of Justice are likely to arise. In the meantime, we heard from the press that Belgium also voted against the European Commission's proposal and that the official present in the technical working group of the European Council would have been instructed to follow the German line, in other words, the less strict line. However, the document "Belgian comments on the second package RDE" indicates that Belgium supports the Commission's proposal. The source is the FPS Mobility. What was the formal Belgian position on the conformity factor of the new diesel cars between 2017 and 2019 and from 2020? Can the Minister confirm that Belgium voted against the European Commission's proposal in the European Council's technical working group? How does the Minister reconcile Belgium's opposition to the European Council's technical working group with the formal Belgian comments on the second package RDE... which indicate that Belgium is following the Commission's position, especially with regard to the so-called second phase, the post 2020 phase, when the conformity factor should be equal to 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u76	Belgium's position on the final conformity factor was indeed to support the European Commission's original proposal, i.e. a conformity factor equal to 1.2. With regard to the first stage conformity factor, Belgium made a reservation of internal research for the value of 1.6 proposed by the European Commission. I confirm that Belgium, like almost all other Member States, has adopted the amended proposal of the European Commission. Another Member State did not vote because it felt that the factors of conformity were still too strict, despite the amendment of the European Commission's proposal, i.e. the transition from 1.6 to 2.1 for the first phase and the transition from 1.2 to 1.5 for the second phase. Belgium, like several other Member States, has given the European Commission a positive answer to the question of whether a little flexibility could be demonstrated in order to reach a consensus. Indeed, in the event of disagreement, the legislative text would have been postponed for the umpteenth time, with the risk that the real driving emissions tests could not be applied for the first phase from 2017. However, the problem was that several other Member States wanted the conformity factors to be even higher. Belgium has given priority to the demand for the RDE measurement method to be applied as soon as possible, to the detriment of the increase in the final conformity factor, which, however, as provided for in the newly adopted legislative text, can be revised annually. It is important to know that the tests currently used to measure emissions are carried out in a laboratory and that the current vehicles would not be able to pass the RDE test, even if they have to comply with a result 110 % higher than in the laboratory. The industry will therefore have to make an effort so that its newly built vehicles can meet the RDE test.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u78	Madam Secretary, at the end of June, SNCB broke the lease agreement with the association Coal Railway. After the closure of the mines in Limburg, that non-profit organisation was granted the old railway line in concession to have tourist trains run on it. SNCB's decision was made for several reasons: the site would not be maintained, the use of railway bicycles was apparently not allowed and the association Coal Railway would no longer pay rent for the use of the infrastructure. Not long after the termination of the lease, SNCB broke up a large part of the Coal Railway between Maasmechelen and Zwartberg. One railway line was maintained, but that is not enough to allow tourist trains to run on the route. According to SNCB, the demolition works were started because the coal railway company continued to use the railway infrastructure despite an explicit ban on the transport company. I have four specific questions, Madam Secretary. SNCB made the decision to break the tracks without any consultation with the local authorities of As, Genk and Maasmechelen. It's not the first time the transport company's played soloslim. Why did SNCB not consider it necessary to enter into consultations? Is it true that after the termination of the lease, it was agreed that SNCB would not take action without consulting local authorities? Will you address SNCB about this? The problems surrounding the Coal Railway have been dragging on for a long time. The municipalities of As, Genk and Maasmechelen have not taken any initiative to carry out the necessary repairs for a long time. However, negotiations would have been under way with SNCB. Is that right? Is it possible to postpone the final termination of the lease with the non-profit association until the negotiations that would be taking place produce new binding agreements? According to SNCB, the Coal Railway vzw continued to use the railway infrastructure despite an explicit ban. This is contradicted by the ships of Tourism of the municipality of As. It claims that there was only a test train on the track, with representatives of SNCB and Infrabel on board. Is that a statement? It's unclear how to proceed with the Coal Railroad. What plans does SNCB have with the site? At the beginning of July, Flemish minister Schauvliege proposed another project on the coal railway. Will that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u79	The railway line is virtually inaccessible because of a lack of safety, to the extent that any rail traffic is excluded. In consultation with the Federal Public Service Mobility, SNCB has decided to make physical train traffic impossible by a limited break-up of the infrastructure. The basic infrastructure has been maintained, with a view to possible exploitation in the framework of future projects. In the exchange of letters already in hand, both parties indicated their willingness to negotiate. On 3 November 2015, SNCB received the plans of the municipality for the station site in As, with the demand for a new version for the railway line of the Coal Railway. SNCB is currently investigating this and will continue to consult the municipality for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u80	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that the basic infrastructure is maintained in order to allow for possible new initiatives or new developments in the future. Let's hope nothing's irrevocable. I also understand that SNCB is prepared to negotiate and that it is examining the question of the municipality of As today. I'll report that to the people in As. I must say that SNCB is obviously making a decision here, and not for the first time, without prior consultation. I also experienced this in my own city, Bilzen, when our window was closed. Without commenting on the substance of the matter, I think it would be courteous to encourage the transport company to consult in advance when such decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u81	Mr President, Minister, over the last few months we have all seen poignant scenes in and around Calais. Groups of refugees stormed the Channel Tunnel and tried to climb into trucks to make the crossing to England as a stowaway. As a result of this problem, the association Spoorslag, a user organisation of the Belgian railway network, recalled a 1990 proposal to solve the Calais bottleneck and also to free the Westhoek from transit lorries. The proposal reads as follows: Those lorries would already be loaded on the train in Germany, in particular in Mönchengladbach, and then transported via the Iron Rhine and by rail 73 to Calais. From there the transport goes through the Channel Tunnel towards Folkestone, where the trucks are unloaded and continue on the road. The Iron Rhine and Railway 73 are unfortunately not active today. For the time being, therefore, freight trains should be detoured through one of the six Belgian-French rail crossings in Walloon territory. Madam Minister, that proposal was delivered to then Flemish Minister for Mobility Sauwens in 1990. He promised an investigation at the time, but it was never carried out. The current refugee problem makes the problem of climbing into lorries topical again. Are you prepared to investigate that old proposal? What advantages and disadvantages do you see in this proposal? This proposal presupposes the reactivation of the Iron Rhine and Railway 73. I would therefore ask you once again whether you are prepared to tackle these projects during the consultations with your fellow citizens from neighbouring countries and to discuss it in the High Level Working Group on the Iron Rhine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u82	Mr Raskin, I am not aware of the proposal made by the former Minister, Johan Sauwens. Without going into the problems of refugees in and around Calais, I would like to point out, as I have already said in my reply to other parliamentary questions, that there are no plans at present to extend line 73 to Dunkirk. I have already indicated that the Flemish Community will carry out a study on the feasibility of the Iron Rhine. I have promised the support of the FPS Mobility in this regard. The European Commission is contributing to the funding and fellow Members from the Netherlands and Germany are involved in the study. The award procedure is behind us and the study will begin within a few days. The results are expected by 30 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u83	Madam Minister, you repeat what you said and I would like to hear from you that you support the study on the Iron Rhine. Apparently, we have to wait until the end of June 2017. Let us take the idea of linking this dossier with the problems in Calais and, if necessary, catch two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u84	Madam Secretary, the railway lines run in Hasselt 21 and 34. The result is that the district of Runkst in the southwest of Hasselt is completely separated from the rest of the city. Part of that physical barrier is also a mental barrier. What are your views on the idea of partially undertunneling the railway lines crossing Hasselt, so that the district forms a whole again with the rest of the city? Was this idea ever investigated? If so, what were the results? If not, are there plans to investigate the idea? Are you prepared to have a feasibility study carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u85	Infrabel informs me that the possible partial undertunnel of the railway in Hasselt has not been studied so far and as such is not part of the proposals relating to the multi-annual investment plan for the period 2016-2020. Infrabel does not intend to examine this proposal. Nor is this project included in the list of priority projects proposed by the Flemish Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u87	Madam Secretary, before the summer, you explained your strategic vision. You announced the creation of an investment cell. This new body must ensure the consistency and accuracy of the investment choices and proceed to the preparation of the new multi-annual investment plan to which you referred. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? Has the foundation been completed in the meantime? If so, how many times has that cell come together? If not, what is the reason for the delay? Before the summer, you expressed the ambition to present a new investment plan before the end of the year. Will you be able to live up to that ambition? If not, when can we expect a new plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u88	As you know, I further developed the structure of the investment cell in my explanatory statement in the Infrastructure Committee on 15 July. I have chosen to work at two levels, one administrative level and one strategic policy level. The administrative level is intended to make proposals for the strategic level. The regions were invited to participate in the work of the investment cell. The existence and role of the investment cell will be enshrined in legislation. The administrative level of the investment cell, the coordination of which lies with the FPS Mobility and Transport, is waiting for project sheets to be provided by Infrabel and SNCB for the next week. These sheets contain a general description, a proposal in terms of planning and an overview of the budgetary resources required for each project or project group. As soon as the administrative investment cell receives the chips, it will be able to get off to a full start. The aim is to establish a multi-annual investment plan for the period 2016-2020 in the framework of the necessary consultations at the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u89	Madam Minister, the intention is good and I fully support it for the sake of clarity, but if I understand correctly, you will not reach the point you raised. I also understand that things are going the way they are, but I would like to ask you to insist on some urgency, not to rush ahead in view of the importance of the choices that need to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u90	The Convention on the International Carriage of Goods by Road was concluded in 1956. It was extended in 2008 with the additional protocol for the introduction of an electronic CMR consignment note, which entered into force on 5 June 2011. At present, this additional protocol has been ratified by nine countries. Belgium has signed the protocol, but has not ratified it so far. The electronic consignment note offers several advantages over the paper version: the system is faster and more efficient and increases traceability, the management of documents is simplified and the risk of human error is reduced. In an answer to an oral question from early 2014, the then Secretary of State for Mobility, Mr Wathelet, who was working on an amended preliminary draft law, replied in order to enable the e-CMR also in Belgium. There would also have been contacts with the Netherlands, where the e-CMR is already used. However, real measures were not taken, which is why I am asking. What concrete steps have you taken in this dossier? Could you give us an overview of the timing of its progress? When will the use of an e-CMR be possible in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u91	The additional protocol to the CMR Convention allowing the introduction of the electronic consignment note in international transport was indeed signed by Belgium but not yet ratified. When my administration was questioned, it was found that the nine countries which have so far ratified the Additional Protocol have not yet actually applied it in international transport. I am only aware that this year the Netherlands has launched a pilot project for inland transport. Too many questions remain unanswered today to implement the international recognition of the so-called e-CMR. For example, it is necessary to consider whether the different systems of the electronic consignment note will be compatible with each other, whether the systems will be sufficiently fraud-proof and whether the digital data will be sufficiently identifiable for the control services. In view of the uncertainties that remain, it was considered appropriate not to complete the ratification process and, following the Dutch initiative, to launch a similar pilot project in Belgium. The geographical limitation of the pilot project aims to test the use of the electronic consignment note in a well-known and verifiable area. Interested suppliers who apply will have to demonstrate that their technology complies with the e-CMR protocol standards. The necessary transparency will be required from the participating suppliers of e-CMR services, so that applications can be closely monitored and, where appropriate, adjusted. This pilot project will run for a period of three years in order to provide a sufficient perspective to the candidate suppliers wishing to develop and commercialise such a system. In accordance with the conditions of this pilot project, the electronic consignment note will be a legal alternative to the paper consignment note. Based on the experience gained, it will then be evaluated whether the electronic consignment note can also be successfully introduced for international transport. In the legal field, this national pilot project requires only an adaptation of the Ministerial Decision of 23 May 2014 on the carriage of goods by road. A draft amendment to this ministerial decision has already been drawn up and discussed with the professional road haulage organisation. This draft is currently going through the required legal advice and procedures. Its publication may normally be expected during the first trimester of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u92	Madam Minister, a great deal remains to be done before implementation. It is a good thing that you start that trial period and that you also involve the professional organisation. In any case, the introduction would mean a major administrative simplification for the transport sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u93	Madam Minister, on 12 November last an article was published in The Belang van Limburg which showed that SNCB has plans to transfer a series of services to Brussels, Aarschot and Antwerp. It goes without saying that the staff associated with these services will also be transferred. A total of several hundred jobs would be created in Limburg. Madam Secretary, is the story that has appeared in the newspapers correct? Can you explain more and also give a concrete timing on what is going to happen in Hasselt? The railway companies must, of course, carry out an efficiency exercise, but will you ensure that the burden is spread evenly across the various provinces in the country and that Limburg is not affected disproportionately? Among other things, the staff office would move to Antwerp. The connection by train between Hasselt and Antwerp is not very attractive, because this movement takes an hour and a half. For a similar reason, the Transport 3 personnel offices in Liège and Charleroi were retained, because the transfer to Bergen or Namur would be too heavy. Are you prepared to make the exception for workers from Wallonia also for workers in Flanders? Are you willing to participate at federal level in the implementation of the SALK project in Limburg and in particular in the reactivation of railway line 18 Hasselt-Neerpelt?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u94	Madam Minister, following on from the question that has just been asked, I would like to give an overview of the staff cuts in Limburg. In 2002, ACOD Spoor warned about a transfer of a hundred railway workers from Limburg to Antwerp. In 2004, there were 42 000 staff on the railways, but as a result of many restructuring and structural changes, there are still 34 000 full-time jobs by the end of 2015. However, in 2010, the Protocol Agreement agreed that 38 000 full-time jobs should be provided by SNCB. Now there is even a reduction to 27 000 full-time jobs in the future. We can only see that the phasing-out in Limburg is greater than elsewhere. A number of administrations would be centralised in Antwerp or Brussels. This does not mean any added value for the staff involved, because I believe that this work can be carried out from any place. As a result of this centralization, about 50 jobs left Limburg. I do not need to remind you that after the conclusion of Ford Genk, the SALK report, which has received the necessary support from the Flemish and federal governments, has provided solutions for future unemployment in Limburg. One of these solutions was the creation of 1 500 jobs on the Belgian railways. Apparently, the government has no intention of doing this. According to Infrabel's plans, the personnel responsible for heavy equipment and areas of activity would be transferred to a new building in Aarschot. This would also mean a loss of some 200 jobs in Limburg. This means that the numerator for the province of Limburg comes at a loss of some 1 800 jobs compared to 2004. In addition, your plan provides that only 4 000 out of 10 000 staff will continue to work. Madam Minister, are the data relating to the reduction of employment in Limburg, which I have listed here? A few years ago, a new logistics centre infrastructure was built in Hasselt. Why can't the staff be centralised there? What initiatives will you take to maintain employment in Limburg, as agreed in the SALK project?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u95	SNCB informs me that, as part of the efficiency exercise, all local administrative services in the Transport Directorate will be centralised with SNCB at district level by the end of 2016. The determination of the district seats of Ghent, Antwerp, Mons, Namur and Brussels took place on the basis of objective criteria, namely the number of operational staff and the installation of the services. Infrabel is also working on an efficiency exercise. For example, it examines where efficiency can be achieved through the use of modern techniques and computerisation. There is a concentration of activities in the logistics centre of Aarschot. This involves the merger of Hasselt and Leuven maintenance centres and the drainage garages of Hasselt and Lier. The number of functions affected is still being investigated. In order to achieve the best possible rail supply in our country, it is important to fully support the ongoing reorganisations of Infrabel and SNCB. In the end, this will benefit all regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u96	Madam Secretary, SNCB is in difficult papers. We all know that the trees no longer grow in the sky. The staff also accepts this. I also speak to those involved and they are well aware that today it is possible to do more with fewer people. The efficiency exercise is and remains necessary. I would like to leave little ambiguity on this, but I would like to point out once again that this exercise must not be carried out on the hood of certain provinces. On the contrary, we must strive to ensure that the burden is balanced, because this has not always been the case in the past. Limburg's investments have all too often been lost. I very much hope that you will take a different path in this respect than your predecessors and look at it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u97	Madam Secretary, you understand that your answer is absolutely unsatisfactory. In many administrations, we are right to see the move towards greater decentralisation rather than centralization. In itself, that is a good thing. In the case of SNCB, however, we see the opposite. I deeply regret that. SNCB could also be partly decentralised to Hasselt, but that choice is not made either. One chooses again for the usual cities. I regret that, too. You say that all regions will actually benefit from the reorganisation. Once again, a reorganisation of SNCB and Infrabel will absolutely have to take place, but a better solution is possible than the solution given here. In the light of the economic problems that Limburg has faced in recent years, the various levels of policy have agreed to contribute to a common solution. I see that SNCB does not contribute to this, on the contrary, SNCB is making the problem even worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u98	Madam Secretary, this is a logical follow-up to my previous question. I recently questioned you in writing about Infrabel's merger project. In your reply, you indicated that Hasselt was chosen as a location for one of the ten signalling posts to be distributed across the Belgian territory. After completion of the project, therefore, there are still ten signal houses left. To meet all the requirements related to the concentration, Infrabel decided in 2007 to build a brand new building in Hasselt. What is the finality of the concentration project? Are the ten signal points the final goal or does Infrabel have plans to concentrate more? If so, what are the plans? Can you give us a concrete timing? How many signalling points are needed to ensure that trains in Belgium run safely? Which signalling points are best suited to remain if Infrabel decides to reduce the number even further? On the basis of what criteria will it be decided which signalling posts remain in such an exercise? Can you guarantee that Hasselt's signal house will not be put out of service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u99	The official project on the migration of the signal houses, as approved by the Infrabel board, provides for the operation of the rail network from ten control rooms including Hasselt. The minimum number of signalling points necessary for traffic management depends on the totality of both technical and functional and organisational parameters according to the main axes to be operated, the density of traffic and the geographical distribution of the zones. Within the framework of the objectives of the project on the migration of signal houses, the minimum number was set at 31 technical installations and ten control rooms. In the context of migration to ten signalling houses, the aim was to ensure a balanced distribution of traffic and of workshops across the zones. The ten chosen control rooms are therefore all considered important. Consequently, the Hasselt operating room will be maintained as part of the current project on the migration of the signal houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u100	If I understand you correctly, Madam Minister, the merger project is almost complete, we will remain at ten signal houses and Hasselt will continue to play an important role in this. This may be a compensation for the unfortunate job losses I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 7415 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u102	As Mr Van Hecke is absent, his question No. 7430.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u103	Minister, the height of docks in our country ranges from 28 to 76 cm. So there is about 50 cm of difference between the highest and lowest wharf. This gap is fundamental and represents a real difference, with consequences for the mobility of some people. I am of course thinking of people with reduced mobility or visually impaired, but also of people who have young children with strollers or many suitcases. The difficulties people encounter in boarding or disembarking inevitably have an impact on the stopping time of trains at the station and thus on their punctuality. Initially, the wharfs at a height of 28 cm were built. They are currently the most numerous. Now Europe has indicated a general height of 76 cm. From 2009 to 2013, Infrabel harmonized the height of the 94 station docks, representing an improvement of 20% over five years. The management contract provided for the upgrading of 160 stations and stop points by 2018. But the management contract ended in 2012 and since 2014, SNCB has had the stations in its competence. Infrabel would deal only with the construction of the new stations and thus the new docks. The development and maintenance of the former wharfs would be the responsibility of SNCB. It therefore seems to me that the question of harmonising the height of the docks remains unclear. Minister, what average wharf height is required when it comes to buying new equipment? On what average height of dock is access based on one level and therefore the comfort of a maximum of users? Are you considering asking for a harmonisation of the height of the different docks? If so, do you have an agenda to do so? Who, from SNCB or Infrabel, is responsible for docking and harmonizing the height of docks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u104	Madam Minister, Mrs Poncelet has already outlined the subject. The order of the new double-deck carriages is becoming more and more concrete. It's a hugely important order, I mean the biggest ever in the history of SNCB. So it is certainly important that all aspects are well thought out and that they are forward-looking. Recently, the travelers' organizations visited the preliminary model of those M7 carriages. They have already formulated a series of recommendations. I have the list here with me. Their main concern is that the carriages are insufficiently accessible. The main point which they consider to be likely to be improved is the boarding height. As Mr Poncelet pointed out, this boarding height is extremely important. Persons with reduced mobility must be able to take the train independently in the long term. The entry height of the new M7 carriages is fixed at 68.5 cm, which is not equal to one of the standard platform heights. These standard heights are 55 and 76 cm. We therefore find it bizarre that SNCB does not choose one of these two heights, preferably for 76 cm. Madam Minister, I have a few questions about this. What recommendations of the passenger organisations do you support? In addition to the boarding height, they also mentioned a low armrest, the width, the rather dark interior and so on. Why does SNCB opt for an entry height of 68.5 cm? What's the explanation for this? Do you support that choice? What is the total extra charge to provide the second class with proportional number of sockets? How much is that expressed as a percentage of the total tender? Does the tender contain the option to opt for a leather upholstery of the seats?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u105	Madam Minister, my fellow Members have already outlined the problem. I asked a written question on 9 July 2015. As regards the debate on platform height, we suggested that we take a look at the neighbouring countries. Train builder Stadler and the Swiss railways were actually faced with the same problem. Two different types of access doors were used in the Twindexx. Their motivation was to treat travellers with limited autonomy as independent travellers as much as possible and to remove the obstacles. Hence my questions. Why can't we negotiate with Bombardier to do the same as those Ttwindexx models delivered in our neighbouring countries? Will account be taken of the other comments made by the travelers' organisations in order to respond to difficult points such as accessibility, the installation of additional outlets and extra luggage space, which is still needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u106	SNCB has given priority to passenger needs even before the possible signing of a contract. In doing so, SNCB organised a market survey among its travellers, staff and stakeholders at the end of 2014. In September 2015, a physical visit to a model of true size followed. A number of characteristics of the new equipment were greatly appreciated, such as the size, location and content of the information screens; clear and correct passenger information; the comfortable finishing of the seats in both classes; the presence of more sockets; the compatibility of the M7 with the M6 carriages; the folding tables in first class, as in the Thalys; the sound screens in the two cosy corners in first class; more leg space in opposite seats; homogeneous, indirect LED lighting etc. SNCB does not intend to place electrical outlets at all seats, thereby balancing the needs of its passengers and energy consumption. The passenger survey on the model clearly shows the demand for an electrical outlet per seat in first class and one per two seats in second class. The extra cost of providing an electrical outlet per seat is too high. SNCB confirms that it does indeed have an option to choose leather seats, including in terms of maintenance and maintenance costs, the experience is positive. In addition, benchmarks show that there is less vandalism experienced with leather seats. SNCB has also listened to the demand for extra luggage space. A new seat concept allows a folding bike to be placed under the seat in a fish-a-fish arrangement. Since the restructuring of the railways in 2014, the liability for the wharf has been split between SNCB and Infrabel. Infrabel owns the docks. However, the management of this infrastructure has been entrusted to SNCB, with the exception of the edge of the wharfs which remains in Infrabel's prerogatives. As part of this management, SNCB opted for the standardization of the 76 cm docks. The objective is to remove the 28 cm docks. For technical reasons, the heights of the 55 cm docks are tolerated in specific cases, for example not to bury an existing station building. The entry height of the new double-decker M7 for people with reduced mobility (PBM) is 72 centimeters. In addition, people with reduced mobility in the new double-decker M7 will have access to the train via the same door as all rail passengers, while today, in the existing double-decker M6, this can only be opened via a separate door, which can only be opened by a train guide with a square key. Travelers' organizations had suggested an entry height of 55 centimeters on one side and 76 centimeters on the other side of the carriage. This 22 centimeter difference can be captured in a carriage with one floor height, but not in a double-deck vehicle such as the M7, where this is technically not possible. The technical specifications for PPE do not allow this either. SNCB has indeed made a benchmark to compare the constructions of carriages with each other. The Swiss model was also looked at in this way. SNCB points out that the concept of the M7 allows the PPE to move throughout the vehicle, but that is not the case in the Swiss model, where there is a staircase in the vehicle. I have forwarded the comments and points of attention made by the associations to SNCB and will meet with representatives of SNCB in the coming days on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u107	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We will await the outcome of your consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u108	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, some time ago, I was asking you about how commuters could buy their cross-border tickets once the ticket office at their station was closed. On the occasion of your reply, you explained that tests were being carried out "in order to have cross-border tickets issued via automatons" and that this would therefore be possible on the date of closure of the relevant ticket office. The window, in this case that of Vielsalm, being now closed for a few weeks, I allow myself to return to you. Indeed, it appears that automatons can only issue cross-border round-trip tickets. It is therefore not currently possible to buy a one-way ticket. This situation would be identical to Neufchâteau and Halanzy. Furthermore, commuters do not have the possibility to renew their train subscription via these machines. What solutions are available to them? Either they have to go to another station or they have to go to a CFL counter and take the subscription from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg – the price is the same – as some commuters already do. Madam Minister, it is still somewhat embarrassing that Belgian commuters can no longer renew their subscriptions from their Belgian station of departure. SNCB must not forget its public service mission. In addition, commuters in rural areas are increasingly discriminated against. After seeing their ticket box closed, they can no longer buy their ticket at their departure station, which is not normal. Minister, is this situation temporary? If so, how long? If not, could you ask SNCB to quickly do what is necessary for the automatons to issue all these tickets?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to SNCB, the cross-border ticket, whether sold at the counters or via automatic machines, has always been proposed on the way back. In addition, the renewal of subscriptions on automatons has been somewhat delayed due to technical problems, but the problem is being resolved. The sale of international tickets via automation machines is currently not possible, but is under development at SNCB level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u110	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u111	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Tuesday, 20 October, you were able to see rail paralysis throughout the Hainaut. At the station of Tournai, a strike picket consisting of some railway workers was installed and was supported by persons with reduced mobility (PMR). The PMRs have in fact common demands to those of the railwaymen: to resist the haemorrhage of staff. The staff, the human, is what the PMRs are asking for and we can only understand them. Without this, it is impossible to design an effective policy of support for PMRs. Madam Minister, you recently announced that as of January 1, 2016, the reservation period for personal assistance will be increased from 24 hours to 3 hours from 18 major stations across the country. Let me make a few criticisms! Firstly, I note that this list does not include Tournai. I feel like we often forget Tournai. Secondly, how do you want to succeed in reducing the reservation time while 7,000 positions will be abolished because of the strategic plan? I can assure you that I have received testimony from people with reduced mobility who demonstrate that SNCB needs to review its copy of its PMR assistance policy. They regret the current and future situation, that is to say, they want to remove staff, men who can help them, and set up more and more automatic terminals. There is a shortage of staff to assist PMRs. It is not I who say it, it is the PMRs themselves who say it and live it on a daily basis. Minister, why is Tournai not one of the 18 stations where the reservation period would be shortened? Do you really think that the staff is enough at the station to help people with reduced mobility as best they can? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u112	(...) Despite possible medium- and long-term savings, a programme for other stations will be included in the management contract. In this regard, I will ensure, through future management contracts, that SNCB continues its efforts to improve the accessibility of its services to persons with reduced mobility, as well as to persons with visual and hearing impairments. Infrabel and SNCB should aim at better coordination of investments in the accessibility of stations to people with reduced mobility. In addition, SNCB will ensure that the door height of its new rolling stock is aligned at the wharf level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will come back to you if SNCB does not take into account what you have just said. But I only hope one thing is that she will!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you today to draw your attention, once again, to the many problems faced by users using the Tournai-Lille line. A few months ago, I intervened in this same commission to inform you of the problems of trains cancelled between Tournai and Lille due to an overvoltage of the tracks. Because of this problem, train users from Liège, Namur, Charleroi, La Louvière or Mons could no longer travel directly to Lille without having to change their train to Tournai. This shuttle intended solely for journeys between Tournai and Lille does not seem, Madam Minister, to wait for the commuters taking their connections to Tournai to go to Lille, making them very often waste an hour on their journey. Madam Minister, is it still normal for travellers to stop at Tournai to take another shuttle to Lille, especially since this shuttle does not seem to take this particular situation into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u115	Mr President, Mr Delannois, as I pointed out at the time, the interruption of the direct relationship between Namur and Lille is due to the problems of tension which caused a number of damage to AM96 motor vehicles. Since last June, six motor vehicles have been equipped with an additional safety system to prevent further damage. Due to the limited number of suitable motors, the latter operate in a "shuttle" system between Tournai and Lille. SNCF is currently working on the development of an infrastructure filter. The time to supply this filter is not known but is estimated to be one or two years. Until there is a durable solution, the SNCB will not be able to put into service, on this relationship, the unadapted AM96 motors and the shuttle system will be maintained. The schedules have not changed. Thus, the correspondence at the station of Tournai is maintained between the two segments of the Namur-Tournai-Lille link. The correspondence rate at Tournai station between the two branches of this IC relationship is 90%, both week and weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u116	Madam Minister, as I understand it. You'll have to wait one to two years to get that filter. Is it normal that we do not wait for the different people who come from Namur or elsewhere? The correspondence should wait a little while. Isn't that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u117	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u119	Minister, on Sunday, October 25, Mr. Cornu said on the RTBF that 20% of trains could run without an attendant. Following this announcement, Le Soir published a very interesting article, supplemented by the testimony of a train attendant. Based on his experience, it is clear that this is certainly not a good step to take. It is not good for safety, for helping people in difficulty and for fighting against certain incivilities. Indeed, the train attendant fulfils a crucial role in verifying the operationality of the train for start-up, guiding and informing passengers, recovering lost objects, ensuring living together by asking certain passengers to respect the basic rules of civics. Minister, will Jo Cornu's announcement be followed up? Do you think removing train attendants is a solution for the future? In general, how do you claim to develop ecological and sustainable mobility by making public transport less and less attractive via a reduced offer of services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u120	For the time being, no decision has yet been taken on the movement of unaccompanied trains. In the current state of affairs, the driver only operation (DOO) is studied within SNCB. All operational, commercial, regulatory and safety criteria are reviewed. Once a specific operational track has been selected, it will be subject to a risk analysis. To obtain permission to operate trains without an attendant, the game must be approved. This means that the security level of the DOO will have to be at least equivalent to that of the current security. In a first phase, the DOO would be applied on Brussels S lines and some local lines, which have not yet been fixed. In a later phase, it could be implemented on the S network around Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi for trains composed of Desiro or automotors. The roll-out of the DOO will depend on the progress of the required studies. The intention is by no means to make public transport less attractive. This is why the commercial implications of the DOO project are being thoroughly studied within the SNCB. The savings that this measure would make would partly be null and void if it were to result in a reduction in the number of travellers and, consequently, in the associated revenues. SNCB is fully aware of this and examines alternative sales channels as well as other ways of informing travellers and ensuring their safety. With regard to the control of tickets and the guarantee of safety, SNCB is thinking, for example, of the targeted implementation of flying brigades composed of train attendants and Securail agents. This approach is being applied successfully in the European Union. The assumption that the implementation of the DOO would automatically result in a reduction in the modal share of the railway is inaccurate. In Switzerland, many trains operate in DOO, and the rail sector by far has the highest modal share in Europe. It is therefore important to develop it in a user-friendly manner and to take ad hoc measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u121	Thank you and count on your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u122	Questions Nos 7445, 7446 and 7448 by Mr Laurent Devin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u123	Madam Secretary, apparently there are about a hundred passengers' declarations per day who have forgotten a scarf or something else on the train. After 50 days, these items are handed over to Stuff Help. If one finds that something has been forgotten, one should not contact the train manager, but should wait and fill out the forms. It would be more interesting if one could ask for it immediately. It is reported that SNCB charges an administrative cost of 5 euros. Sometimes that's justified, especially when people don't care. However, in a press article we read how a boy lost his wallet and was not allowed to take money from it. I don't know if that's true, because I always want to nuance something like that. On the question in committee about the procedure for lost objects, you said that it would be evaluated. Therefore, you may consider this a follow-up question. What are the findings of the evaluation? Will anything change the role of the train attendant? I'd think that would be easier. What did the payment of the non-refundable administrative costs result in 2014 and 2015? We have read in the press that the amount is comparable to that in other countries. Is the cost only to cover the administrative costs or is there something behind it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u124	The procedure is currently under review. The most important change under consideration is the possibility to send a found object directly to the rightful owner. That would be an additional service. In this case, the administrative costs would of course be increased by the logistical costs of sending them. Those opportunities are currently being examined and will be implemented at the earliest in early 2016. As far as the incident to which you refer is concerned, SNCB tells me that it is not true that the owner was not allowed to take the 5 euros out of his portfolio. There was only 4 euros in it. Administrative costs are flat-rate costs which have never been linked to the actual value of the object found. This may be considered in the future, especially for lost objects of a certain value. However, it is not correct to say that the administrative costs of EUR 5 would be the main reason for non-collection of many items. Usually the customers just don't think it's worth getting the item. Very often they do not know that they have lost the object on a train or simply do not report it. In 2014, 54 400 euros were charged in administrative costs and in 2015 to date around 56 400 euros. As far as the role of the train guide is concerned, I would refer you to my reply that I gave here in committee on 21 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u125	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Once the evaluation has been carried out, we will ask another question about this in the first quarter of 2016. I understand that the SNCB depot is now a scarf richer. Probably gonna stay there, too. As far as the EUR 4 or 5 is concerned, it seems to me a little kafkaian to start a portfolio procedure. I wonder if that deficit of 1 euro is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u126	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 7506 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u127	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree of 19 March 2014 states that the rate of excise duty payable depends on whether or not the agricultural and forestry tractors are exempted from the periodic technical inspection. That KB shall also amend the conditions of submission for the periodic roadworthiness tests of these tractors with a maximum authorised mass of more than 3 500 kg. From 1 May 2014, these vehicles should be subject to a mandatory periodic inspection. However, there are some exceptions to that rule. One of the exceptions concerns tractors used by road managers or their contractors to maintain the environment of roads or during the winter for clearing snow or scattering on the public road of substances in order to secure traffic in dangerous weather conditions and the like. The local authorities, which are responsible for the maintenance of roads, canals and roads, have considerable doubts about the rate of excise duty to be applied. The VVSG and the Customs and Excise Administration, which must supervise, are also unclear. Can you clarify what exactly is meant by the maintenance of the surroundings of the roads? Does that help the roads, the verges and the canals? I would like a little more explanation on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u128	Mr Wilrycx, following the sixth state reform, the technical inspection was regionalised. Your questions must be addressed to my regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u129	I'm being sent a little from the locker to the wall. I put the question to the Minister for Finance because it concerns excise duties. He referred me to you. You are now referring me to the Flemish Parliament. It might be a good thing if a letter were to be sent, because the municipalities do not know whether their cars are allowed to drive red or white diesel. At least I'll continue my trajectory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u130	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you have the floor for your question. 7671 on the procedure following fatal accidents on the track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u131	Mr President, excuse me, but I just got a call that I am expected to make in the Committee on the Interior because there is no number of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u132	Would you like to convert your question into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u134	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u135	Madam Minister, unfortunately the saga of the removal of the DIV office is not yet over. People keep muddying. The optimism of the neighborhood residents a while ago, when two possible locations were reported, has already been completely reversed. One location, the Flemish Administrative Centre, turns out to be impossible, and there is still no clarity about the other location. We need to look again for a suitable site. During the previous meeting, it was agreed that everyone within their own patrimony or on the private market would check whether another location is possible. My questions are very simple. Why not just opt for a return to the previous location? That was a car related location, near the motorway on the outer ring of Zwijnaarde. There was also a very smooth tram connection. If you do not opt for this, a move to the customs building on Port Arthurlaan is still an option. It is unclear to us why that slope is no longer being followed. Are there any other locations the FPS Mobility has in mind? When will the parties meet again in order to find a different solution if necessary? When does the current agreement of the DIV office expire on fisheries? Can you explain to me why it is so difficult to find a good location for the DIV in the vicinity of Ghent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u136	The lease of the DIV office to the Fisheries was entered into by the company SBAT for a period of 9 years and started on 1 June 2013. However, the agreement may be terminated after 3 years or 6 years, subject to a notice period of 6 months. The former location of the DIV office in Zwijnaarde is no longer available. There remain two possible locations: a building used by customs at Port Arthurlaan and the building used by the maritime services of the FPS Mobility and Transport in the same environment. The difficult search for a suitable location caused the slow progress in this file. A need study is necessary for further steps to be taken. No date has yet been set for further consultations. The DIV remains committed to further digitisation, but the DIV offices are not superfluous at the moment. The evolution of the workload shows that there is no significant reduction in the total number of files handled in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u137	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your efforts, because the problems at the present location are very serious at the moment. Again, that is a bicycle street and a residential street. Tomorrow a lot of people are standing there in car trunks and so they can't really get through. In addition to the sliding car dynamometers, there are also people standing in the open air, because there is not enough waiting space in the office itself. I hope I don't have to convince you, but the current location is definitely not good. I hope, along with you, that you will quickly find a different and better location. It is not clear to me why the customs building at Port Arthurlaan would not be appropriate. I think this would be a good and well-reachable location.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u138	Mr Yüksel, you can perhaps say one more word in a reply. I assume you will join in your colleague's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u139	Of course, I agree with that. I did not, of course, hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u140	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u141	I think I can perfectly agree with the colleague's reply. Madam Minister, it is important that this is clarified as soon as possible and that a decision is taken as soon as possible, so that the residents of the neighbourhood get a living environment and the customers of the DIV can get there more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u142	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 7671 question was converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 7737 by Mrs Inez De Coninckx 7760 by Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u143	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you will be able to come to the Kempen next week as part of the formal opening of the electrification of line 15 Herentals-Mol. After more than twenty-five years of planning, it is good that, during the previous legislature, pressure was still exerted, among other things, through a resolution by Mr Van den Bergh, myself and a number of other Members, so that this electrified line can now be put into operation. At that time we had also asked in our resolution to continue electrification. I asked a question about its timing at the committee meeting of 23 September 2015. According to your oral answer, that timing was reviewed and calculated. Further electrification would cost €38 million. According to the table given at the time, it turned out to be EUR 35 million. You stated in September 2015 that there was no clarity about the electrification of the second part. This would be looked at later. As it is already December 2015, I would like to ask that question again today. Of course, there is now a debate on whether electrification should go in the direction of Neerpelt or Hamont. Meanwhile, Hamant seems to me to be a more logical decision. Since we mentioned Neerpelt at the time in the resolution, I am also referring to Neerpelt in my question. For me it is important that this is not a new project, but a continuation and realization of a second part of an existing project. As a result, the added value can be clearly demonstrated. There's a traveler's potential. The use of uniform equipment is made possible. Regularity will also improve dramatically. In addition, it appears from previous replies that there should be a solution to electrification in the case of material problems. That is why I have the following questions. Do you agree with my view that further electrification is not a new project, but the implementation of the second part of the project for electrification of line 15? What would be the correct budgetary cost? Given that it is December 2015, I have taken the liberty of adding a final question. Are those resources included in the 2016 Investment Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u144	Mr President, electrification of the Mol line towards Neerpelt and the Dutch border must be decided on the basis of a separate cost-benefit analysis and is therefore a project in itself. The cost of electrification of the existing similar line 19 is estimated at about 35 million euros for the time being. As you know, we are still preparing the multiannual railway investment plan for the period 2016-2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u145	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope that the cost-benefit analysis will show that electrification can have a positive effect. It is rather strange that in December 2015 there is still no insight into the investments for 2016, especially given the fact that a train investment is not very obvious. Madam Minister, I do, however, cherish hope. I hope that you will be able to announce on Wednesday in the Kempen that the electrification will indeed be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u146	That'd be great.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u147	Madam Secretary, I was actually hoping that I should not ask this question. After all, that would mean that no accident had happened. As part of the special committee on rail safety, I have used the custom of asking a question whenever an accident occurs. I am aware that the transfer of information is limited in the short term. Are there any initial findings on the causes of this tragic accident? The accident happened on a road trip. Was there a problem with the signaling? Was it a problem with a maneuver because of a changed traffic situation? I know that the next question should actually be addressed to your colleague, Mr Borsus, but it was difficult for me to ask a separate question and ask your colleague. Do you think there will be an investigation? Were your services informed of any information research carried out by the Accident Institute?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u148	A articulated bus from De Lijn turned left from the Spoorweglaan to the Meulebekestraat. During that manoeuvre, the bend was cut too short, so the bus on the left tripped on the traffic sign A47, a Saint-Andries' Cross with traffic lights. The driver failed to clear the way in time. Train E3634 approached the 25 by the normal rail at 13:26 and hit the bus in the flank. This route belongs to the second category. On Monday, November 23rd, this crossing underwent a large annual review in which all the elements were checked. Since then, there has been no report of any malfunction on the road. Minister Borsus informed me that the investigation into this accident fits in with a wider investigation that the investigating body for Accidents has started and is currently in progress. This research is based on the statistics of the data available in our database of certain inspections carried out for analysis. The report will be communicated to the parties concerned so that they can take note of the information and conclusions. The report is expected to be ready during the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-02-54-commissie-ic284x.u149	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We can only regret this unfortunate accident. I have a lot of appreciation for the courage of the driver of the bus.
