ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u1	Mrs Temmerman, your question No. 567 on Jean-Claude Juncker's investment plan has already been discussed in the context of the debriefing of the Ecofin Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u2	It's already 16:15. I would therefore ask you to put your question briefly and concisely, in telegram style.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u3	Minister, many employees receive benefits in kind from their employers, such as a PC, a laptop, a smartphone or a mobile phone, which can be used for both professional and private purposes. The employer's intervention creates an advantage in kind. This is subject to both personal and normal social security contributions, except social security contributions on the part of the employee's personal contributions. I have looked up a number of figures on this. For example, the FPS Finance website mentions an advantage in kind of 180 euros per year for the use of a PC, including any peripherals and printer and 60 euros per year for an internet connection. The same goes for a tablet, an iPad or a smartphone. The RSZ has developed a system whereby a flat-rate contribution of 12.5 euros per month is calculated for, for example, a mobile phone. The problem of flat-rate contributions is well known. After all, the market situation is lagging behind. I remember how expensive a PC was when I bought my first PC. Prices are much lower nowadays, and so are laptops, internet, etc. So I have a few questions. Is there any intention to adjust the amounts in the future to lower flat-rate taxable benefits, because cost prices have fallen? If so, is there any timing known? Are any new amounts known? There is a big difference between the value of a simple mobile phone and a smartphone. Can a distinction be drawn between the flat-rate tax advantages? Is there a difference in treatment between the tax authorities for this part, on the one hand, and for social security contributions, on the other? It is about the same benefits in kind, but it may be that one administration uses lump sums or makes different transactions from the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u4	Mr President, at the moment there is no complete agreement between the tax authorities and the RSZ as to the valuation of the quoted benefits of all kinds. For example, the RSZ appreciates the advantage of the private use of a PC, the internet connection and the internet subscription on the same basis as the tax authorities, but for example, there is a different calculation of the advantage of the private use of a mobile phone. My administration is consulting with the RSZ to arrive at uniform rating. The results of these consultations should be presented in the relatively short term. Moreover, this consultation is also fully in line with the objective of maximum streamlining of the concept of pay, which was explicitly provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u5	Minister, I welcome your answer. I am pleased that, in the relatively short term, we know that this is a relative answer in political terms, and that harmonisation is being sought. The prices continue to evolve and in the meantime one can buy a mobile phone for a prick, but it actually has to pay a more expensive advantage annually than what the device is worth. A procedure is therefore necessary. It is also important to point out that these are evolving figures. These are averages of the past few years, with market figures being followed. A large distinction and an evolving and flexible system is therefore desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u6	Mr President, Minister, given the importance of the subject, I wanted to table an inquiry, which allows me to elaborate on my point. Much has been said, including during the debriefing of the Ecofin Council which we have just had, from LuxLeaks, which is very aggressive tax practices in some European countries. But there is also a kind of BelgoLeaks, especially by the technique of what is called the excess profit ruling, a matter on which I had the opportunity to question you in plenary session. I have done some research on the origin of this legal provision. It was in plenary session on 3 June 2004 that the Chamber decided to add a paragraph 2 to article 185 of the Income Tax Code, a provision which gives the Anticipated Decisions Service an important and very important power, allowing it to reduce the taxable base of a multinational company imposed in Belgium on behalf of the principle of non-double taxation. The opinion delivered at the time by the Council of State on this text is quite instructive and I wonder why it was not the subject of any debate in the Committee on Finance or in plenary, since it is murderous. He explains that the provision is not useful and denounces the fact that the Anticipated Decisions Service is given a totally disproportionate, quasi-legislator power, based on criteria for reducing the taxable base that are anything but clear. Added to this is a parliamentary question from a member who is your colleague in the government today, Mr Bart Tommelein, Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud, where he asks the then Minister of Finance, Mr Reynders, whether the Anticipated Decisions Service should communicate the rules to foreign tax administrations which might be affected by the provisions. And Mr Reynders said, "No." But this has a very serious consequence, since in the annual report produced by the Anticipated Decisions Service, this short answer to this long question is mentioned. This is the argument used by the Anticipated Ruling Service not to communicate ruling decisions to foreign tax administrations. In addition, we have had access to this slideshow used by FPS Finance to promote this and other tax provisions abroad. He has been the subject of various articles in De Standaard and Le Soir on Monday. The promotion which is carried out by services which, in my view, are responsible for ensuring that the tax is collected properly appears to be a promotion of the fact that in Belgium one may not pay tax or almost no tax. This seems particularly aggressive to me. This rather surprising slideshow shows that multinationals - I am not talking about SMEs here, Mr and Mrs Tout-le-monde - have the opportunity to have access to a particularly favourable tax system. It is also stressed that it is legally sound. This is related to this non-advertising obligation to make decisions that are made, as a result of a parliamentary question to the then Minister of Finance. That's how we make laws here in Belgium. Since the rules granted under Article 185(2) of the Tax Code must remain secret, they are not automatically transferred to foreign tax administrations. It cannot be said that these practices are almost equivalent to those which have been denounced in the LuxLeaks. I remember hearing the Prime Minister, in plenary session where he was questioned about LuxLeaks, saying that it was scandalous and that he was going to hold the authorities of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to account and that it had to stop immediately. What applies to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg should also apply to Belgium. You have to make sense. It was discussed in plenary on 11 December. In plenary, the format is rather short. I prefer the format of the inquiry to ask you more precisely about the subject and about this somewhat hypocritical working attitude of the Belgian State but also of other States at European level. Minister, I would like to come back to this 2004 legislation. At the time, did this draft amendment to Article 185, through an addition of a § 2 to the Income Tax Code, receive prior notification to the European Commission, either as a tax provision encouraging harmful competition or as a provision that could be State aided? If not, why? Do you confirm the words of your predecessor, Mr Geens, that the rules allowed under this new legislation are affected by the ongoing examination of a number of Belgian rules by the Competition Directorate of the European Commission? What is the status of this procedure? Has the risk of a repayment obligation in case of assimilation of this tax advantage into illegal state aid been measured by the federal authority, by the FPS Finances? If so, who should repay what would be considered illegal aid? As Minister of Finance in charge of overseeing everything that is being done in the FPS Finances, do you agree with the aggressive practices of promoting this and other tax measures by the FPS Finances under the title of Only in Belgium? That's the title of this slideshow. Is it really the role of a tax administration to practice this way? Who takes responsibility and initiative within the FPS Finance? Do you cover these types of initiatives? Some statistical elements. Since the passing of the law, how many companies have benefited from the provisions of Article 185(2) to reduce their taxable base? How many of these rulings have been granted in the last three years? Do these rulings need to be regularly renewed or, once obtained, are they worth an indefinite period of time? Do you have an estimate of the tax reduction amounts that have benefited the multinational companies involved in these settlements? Following the debate you had at Ecofin and the meetings you had with the Luxembourg Minister of Finance, is Belgium prepared to communicate on its own initiative the rules concluded to the Member States of the European Union and to other non-Member States, which would be taxed by the exemptions from profits granted by Belgium, so that they can do their own tax collection work? Are you prepared to review the law by setting more precise criteria for applying this reduction in the taxable base, by providing for the principle of transparency, publication of these rules and automatic transmission to the tax administrations concerned? Belgium would be a precursor to what we are asking at European level. My last questions were outlined in the debate that has just been concluded. Were these issues discussed at the last Ecofin Council? It is now known that this has not been the case. What is Belgium's position? It's better to sweep in front of his door before asking his neighbor to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u7	My questions concern two main issues: transparency on the one hand and competitiveness or fiscal competition on the other. You have said that we will get all the information on the rulings from Luxembourg. What happens if elements are found that interest other Member States directly or indirectly? Will they then automatically be passed on by Belgium? Following the exchange with Luxembourg, there was a procedural discussion on what should or should not be made known automatically. Will we take responsibility for this and pro-actively pass on the information? Will Belgium take a similar initiative and automatically forward the rulings that were not published individually? That's about what happens in your own house. You said that all these practices would be examined with care and discretion. That will require a reinforcement of the BBI's capacity. What will you do for that? Another set of questions concerns international tax avoidance. Questions on tax competition have just been answered. You have said that you are not against harmonization. That sets out the outlines for a further debate. My questions are specifically about deloyal tax competition, which should actually be banned. The European Commission should carry out an annual screening in this area. That was also a suggestion from Professor Maus. He had also suggested that the information exchanged automatically should be accessible, which is quite obvious. You were just talking about fiscal competition. I would also like to know your opinion on the screenings. A further question concerns the excess profit rulings under Article 185 (2) of the EC Treaty. There's an investigation into the validity of that article. Everyone realizes that supervision is needed, as is an authorisation authority. A knowledgeable person must carry out a thorough assessment and see if there is a sufficient legal basis and whether the rulings fit within a loyal tax competition. We are proposing an external control body with the committee. As long as there is no external control body, I wonder how Parliament can be better informed in order to make a serious assessment of what can or cannot be defended collectively or what should be withheld. I think it is important for Parliament to be informed as much as possible of what is happening in the Department of Prior Decisions. You have also pointed out the economic consequences and possible shifts in the tax base, even if it is an important instrument. You have therefore announced an inquiry into this matter. It is very early to get the results of this, but perhaps you can tell us a little bit more about the instructions for the investigation? What is the state of play in the European Commission's investigation? What about the parliamentary instruments? I am thinking here of the briefings to Parliament? What about the economic impact of the ruling policy? When can we expect any results in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u8	Mr President, the Anticipated Decisions Department is as up-to-date as Luxembourg Leaks. Advance agreements are a very old practice, even before the establishment of the Anticipated Decisions Service. Some taxpayers were going to take their files to the Chief Controller for an opinion, although informal, which allowed them to see a little clearer. Secondly, the Anticipated Decisions Service was set up at the same time as the dismantling of the coordination centres in the early 2000s, initially with a narrow scope and then a quasi-general scope. The problem with the Anticipated Decisions Service, in my opinion, is how it works. There is a college with a series of specializations. The employees prepare the files which then arrive at the college, which decides in a collegial way what to do. He considers whether or not the assembly meets the law perfectly. At this level, there is a first problem on how this college works. It is not bound by the opinions given by the collaborators, which is why we sometimes find ourselves faced with somewhat vaudevillesque situations as when it came to the ruling in the KBC file. Not all the members of the college were there and a suspicion weighed the decision. That's not the only case. From time to time, the press reports decisions that seem a little surprising and that can possibly be criticized from the point of view of legality. The weakness of the Anticipated Decisions Service, which will constantly feed into polemics that are not good for anyone, is the mode of operation of this college, which does not have an appeal body. Since the Anticipated Decisions Service is not strictly speaking under the authority of the tax administration, it is not accountable to anyone for the reasons underlying the decision in law and in fact. You are going to tell me that there is the annual report which the Anticipated Decisions Service has to give and which can be discussed at Parliament level. I have read these reports and this is not a sufficient basis for judging the quality of the factual and legal elements retained by the College to give a positive or negative opinion. The pack hurts at that level, but it's not too late to reform things. You are going to tell me that the Court of Auditors can possibly carry out an ex post audit. But the Court of Auditors will not review the reasons in fact and in law for each case. She will see if the Anticipated Decisions Service works well both functionally and organizationally. It's a little short, it's not enough. What we need is a mechanism that allows us to verify whether, in terms of the facts, the college is a valid decision. Because, let us not forget that these decisions can emerge, at some point, from solutions that can have a huge budgetary impact on our public finances. I find that the Anticipated Decisions Department is being given a little too much responsibility in the light of recent events. That is why we have tabled a bill that requires publication of all decisions. This would enable us to identify the entire work of the Anticipated Decisions Service. I believe that it is essential today to be able to move forward. We would like to be able to debate this in this committee quite quickly. My questions are relatively simple. I will join here in Luxembourg Leaks. Mr Minister, as far as Luxembourg Leaks is concerned, do you already have a pre-analysis on the basis of the dossiers which have been communicated by the Luxembourg services? Can you, at this stage, guarantee that the legislation and the double taxation agreements have been complied with? Are the decisions that have been forwarded to you only those revealed by Luxembourg Leaks and which therefore concern PricewaterhouseCoopers, knowing that there is no indication that KMPG, Ernst & Young or other tax advisory companies have also introduced decisions to the Luxembourg ruling service? So what is the scope of the decisions that have been communicated to you? Finally, as you are going to receive or have already received a lot of information, you need officials to deal with it. Have any instructions been provided at the FPS level for the analysis of these files? I guess they're coming to the Special Tax Inspectorate. But aren't we going to create an additional overload for this service? Is there sufficient human resources to be able to cope with it and, above all, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u9	Mr Van Hees, you have the opportunity to make a short speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u10	Mr President, I would also like to speak on the excess profit ruling. I discovered this measure in 2008, four years after it was introduced. In a brochure in which I denounced notional interests, I had denounced in parallel this measure which is a bit the little brother of notional interests. Notional interests were created because the European Commission had condemned the coordination centre regime. Notional interests had to replace these coordination centres. It is a bit the same with regard to the excess profit ruling: another measure which has been condemned by the European Union for unfair tax competition. This was the ruling infocap which was condemned by the European Union and the then Finance Minister replaced it with Article 185(2) of the Income Tax Code. I find it rather intriguing that it was passed in Parliament in catmini, without debate since even the PS and Ecolo voted in favour at the time and there was no debate. I think that behind this measure there was a combination, a practice that was not very clearly visible when the law was passed. The essential fact is, it seems to me, that there is a total imbalance to this extent since zero-rating is allowed in the head of the company in Belgium without there being any tax in return in the parent company or in another subsidiary of the same group. I believe that this is the fundamental problem of this measure, to which must be added the problem of the non-publication of the rules. Minister, I therefore think that the way you can understand and resolve this is quite simple. The problem of the ruling is much wider, but as far as the excess profit ruling is concerned, I think there are two essential questions and I will ask you: are you planning to have all these rulings about the excess profit ruling published? Secondly, do you intend to impose this condition, namely that for a company in Belgium to be able to deduct this from its taxable basis, it must have been taxed in the other companies in the group, so that there is a real balance in taxation? I think this is the essential question with regard to the excess profit ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u11	Mr.President, I propose to answer 7 Mr.Gilkinet's questions. In doing so, I will respond at the same time to the comments made by the other speakers. Then I will come back to specific points from the other three speakers. With regard to Mr Gilkinet's first question, which concerns the European Commission, Belgium did not, at the time, give any prior notification to the European Commission because this legal provision is a simple application of the OECD principles on transfer pricing. The second question concerned the rulings and the Commission. The European Commission's investigation into the application of the rulings is currently in the preliminary investigation phase. Belgium fully cooperates with the preliminary investigation and always provides the information requested by the European Commission within the time limits. The third question – only in Belgium, if I may sum it up as follows – concerns a presentation by the Foreign Investment Tax Unit. Within the Federal Public Service Finance, this unit informs and assists tax-related candidates for foreign investors and foreign investors already active in Belgium. This public service works free of charge – even if nothing is free – and in a flexible, non-bureaucratic and investment-oriented way. As a result, the methods used are sometimes somewhat attractive. The fourth question was the number of cases. From 2005 to date, 60 cases have been opened on the basis of Article 185(2)(b). For the years 2012, 2013 and 2014, there were 33 advance rulings on the application of Article 185(2)(b). These decisions, like most others, are valid for a period of five years, in accordance with Article 23 of the Act of 24 December 2002 amending the corporate income tax regime and establishing an advance tax ruling system. Finally, I would like to point out that, given its preliminary nature, such an advance decision is based on the estimates. However, in the third year following the decision, an assessment of the situation shall be carried out on the basis of the actual figures found, in order to adapt the decision to reality as best as possible, if necessary. It is impossible to provide the exact amount of the tax reduction on the basis of advance rulings. Indeed, the advance decisions taken in this respect do not relate to an amount, but to a methodology for determining the arm's length profit, which is impossible in the applicant's head in a standalone configuration, i.e. the profit that that undertaking would have made had it not been part of a multinational group, thus excluding synergies and economies of scale achieved by incorporating the applicant into the group, the difference constituting the profit exempted on the basis of Article 185(2)(b). This procedure is in line with the OECD transfer pricing principles, as laid down by the OECD, more specifically in Chapter I, point 10. The taxable arm's length profit in Belgium is always supported by an in-depth transfer price analysis in line with the methods advocated by the OECD. The Minister of Finance further stated on 13 April 2005 in response to the inquiry of the representative Bart Tommelein that it is not for the Belgian tax authorities to determine for which foreign company this additional profit should be included in the profits. In response to an inquiry by the representative Devlies, on 11 April 2007, the same Minister of Finance replied – I quote –: "It is not up to the Belgian tax authorities to determine to which foreign company the additional profit should be allocated. It is therefore not possible to exchange information with foreign tax administrations. When a preliminary decision is requested, applicants are always invited to provide the required documentation. In this respect, it must be sufficient to demonstrate the amount of compensation at arm's length to which the Belgian taxpayer can claim in order to exempt the additional benefit from Belgian taxes. For the Belgian tax authorities, it is hardly useful to establish the correct foreign profit. The same result can be achieved by an imputation demonstrating the exact profit in Belgium." The principle is therefore to impose the profit which corresponds to an arm's length benefit for the undertaking concerned, no more or less. Let me turn to questions 5 to 7. Belgium agreed with the request from France, Germany and Italy to rapidly implement a European Directive on: 1. the conditions for issuing tax rulings by the Member States; (2) the automatic and compulsory communication of these rules to the tax administrations of other members concerned. At Ecofin on 9 December 2014, the Council generally accepted this request for examination. He not only welcomed it positively, but there was no exception. Work on the subject will begin early this year and a first report is expected by the end of June. When the Directive is adopted, Belgian legislation on the issue of tax rulings will be amended if it is found that the current conditions of issue do not comply with the Directive. Pending the adoption of the Directive, Belgium will continue to communicate to another Member State of the European Union the rules on which it will request the communication. Now I come to Mr Deseyn's questions, which I have not yet answered in the overview so far. Mr Deseyn, whether or not the BBI should be strengthened will be evaluated once we have a full view of the amount and scope of the passed rulings. There was also a question about Mr Maus, who is a very valuable guy. Of course, we take the proposals of someone like Mr Maus seriously. He's very much at home in that matter. We also take other people's proposals seriously, but we do not always see that there is great convergence. We are trying to reach the most valid common denominator. I have just answered the question about the European Commission a little bit. It is a phase of preliminary investigation, in which we fully cooperate. We are, of course, looking forward to the final result for Europe. As far as the statistics on impact are concerned, they do not exist. That impact is also difficult to picture, because it is about the methodology. How do people work? How do we deal with transfer prices? It is very difficult to estimate the consequences, for example on the tax base or other economic quantities. Mr Laaouej, I come to your first question on rules, legislation and preventive double taxation agreements. Our services, including the ISI, have already done a preliminary analysis of the files that were revealed in the LuxLeaks case. This is a fairly general analysis, but at this stage I have no indication that double taxation legislation and agreements have not been systematically complied with. However, we are still at the preliminary stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u12	Mr.President, I will repeat the comments based on the questions I asked. As far as the pre-trial procedures are concerned, we do not repeat the history and perhaps we had six months to question the Constitutional Court on the validity of the text. You refer to the OECD principles. It is not a democratic decision-making body. On the other hand, at the time, the Council of State had made remarks of common sense, at least on the accuracy of the criteria to be applied in deciding on a tax relief, a reduction in the taxable base. I regret that he was not followed. With regard to the inquiry into the European Commission, you have not answered precisely whether these rules, according to Article 185(2) of the Code, are covered by the Commission. You didn't confirm it. I regret this total lack of transparency. If you want to catch up on this, it would be helpful. That is, in any case, what Mr. Geens said at the time. I guess that hasn't changed since then. We will therefore wait for the follow-up of the investigation while hoping that Belgium will cooperate as best it can. In view of these attractive practices of the Foreign Investment Tax Unit of the FPS Finances, I believe that you are particularly understanding in this regard. A regulation and ethical criteria should be established. I have no problem with the Belgian tax administration explaining objectively how our taxation works. It's pretty positive about foreign investors, but the way this slideshow is done is, for me, shocking from a point of view of good tax collection. What is highlighted is the way to avoid paying taxes in Belgium, rather than the stability, quality and legibility of the system. For me, this goes far too far from a public administration. As regards the number of cases and their impact, you are contradictory in stating that the amounts are impossible to assess, because a rule is drawn up on the basis of principles, but on the other hand, an assessment of the situation is carried out on the basis of the actual figures found three years later. It seems to me that the result of this evaluation three years later should enable the Anticipated Decisions Service to measure the impact. When you talk about measuring the impact, I guess it's about the financial impact. You imply that there may be an adaptation of the ruling according to the impact observed. I think you could be more transparent about this and we could be more transparent about foreign tax administrations. Of course, it is difficult to know which country is affected by this non-taxation of profits, the country to which a taxable basis is stolen. The simple solution is to make the rulings public. The Anticipated Decisions Service publishes an annual report, which does not cite any company or amount. If the rulings are made public, foreign tax administrations that would question whether or not profits have been taxed in Belgium would be able to consult this database and do their work. I come back to this hypocrite of Belgium's attitude before you were Minister of Finance. It is interesting, at Ecofin level, to plead with other countries for a directive to ensure transparency and the exchange of information. But having a voluntary non-transparent practice at home is contradictory. We are all the more strong in claiming positive developments in European legislation if we apply these principles in our own country. In the end, I remain dissatisfied with the answers, hence the motion for recommendation that I tabled. Changes in case law are possible today. The answers Mr Reynders gave at the time to Mr Reynders. Tommelein and Devlies, you can contradict them today. The response of a Minister of Finance is the same rule of law. So you could now instruct the Anticipated Decisions Department to publish the rules. The law, as adopted in 2004, by a PS-MR majority, does not provide for the non-advertisement of the rulings. If you wanted to, you could now act as a precursor at European level and you would be all the more strong to get from your Luxembourg colleague – this will be the subject of a next question – the Luxembourg government's rulings on Belgian companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u13	Minister, it is a good thing that you do not rule out the possibility of strengthening the BBI, whether temporarily or not, in order to carry out further research into the results of LuxLeaks' investigative journalism and its administrative consequences. That is certainly a positive element in your answers. In connection with Professor Maus' proposals, you say that you want to find the greatest common denominator between the proposals of different schools of academics. I absolutely disagree with that. I believe that we as politicians should be able to decide and that we should not see if there is a compromise from an academic point of view. Maybe you didn't mean it quite like that. I mean that if there are valuable suggestions, from whatever angle they come, which we can support politically, for example, on European screenings, on the accessibility of rulings or on the implementation of combating deloyal tax competition, we should simply go for them without waiting to see if eminent professionals can agree on them. As far as statistics are concerned, I realise that you need to be pioneering there. There is little statistical evidence on the economic impact of the rulings that have been closed in the past. It is also extremely difficult to set up a methodology to really quantify and quantify what we are talking about for our Belgian economy. I accept all that and understand that pioneering work requires more time, but ultimately the theory must also be worked out. That is certainly an appeal to the chairman and fellow Members of this House to follow up on the issue of rulings in our committee. The debate cannot therefore be closed. As far as Mr Gilkinet's motion is concerned, you are being accused of a lack of virility. That is where we speak of ministre. The motion has also been distributed before your reply was heard. For these reasons alone, I think she is extremely problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u14	Mr President, I take note that at this stage the tax administration, the ISI, has only conducted a preliminary examination of the files transmitted to it under the LuxLeaks. As I understand it, minister, we have to wait a little longer for the final conclusions. At this stage, therefore, no conclusions can be drawn in one sense or another as to the legality of the arrangements and their conformity with the preventive double taxation agreements. Of course, we will have to go back to that. I do not have a clear indication of the number of files transmitted, but we will return to them. That is no problem. We see, especially through the excess profit issue, that what we need as parliamentarians is to see how the Anticipated Decisions Service works – I can join the minister when he asks for more transparency. This would allow us to better understand how this Anticipated Decision Service renders its opinions in such a complex subject that combines questions of fact and law, methodologies and evaluations. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that you proceed to a hearing of the Anticipated Decisions Service on this specific subject. I am not asking for a general hearing but for a hearing on the precise point of excess profit. Dozens of cases have indeed been dealt with, with dozens of opinions delivered. So I guess they've developed a know-how, a methodology. Let us accept that I am not asking for a committee of inquiry but for an exchange of views with questions and answers of a technical nature so that we, as parliamentarians, can draw correct conclusions. Hearing the president of this department, the collaborators she would like to join, I think that could be enlightening for our work. That is a concrete proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u15	This will be discussed in the order of business. I am in favour of holding a hearing. It remains to be seen who is interrogating.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u16	Could this item be placed on the agenda of next week's meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u17	Yes. Mrs Temmerman also wants to hear Mrs Véronique Tai, the chairman of the College of the Department of Prior Decisions in Fiscal Affairs, as part of LuxLeaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u18	Mr President, we agree with the sp.a.'s request. We are also formulating it. We shall therefore discuss this in the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u19	Mr. Chairman, I would like to use my right of reply because the minister did not reply to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u20	Mr Van Hees, you are not entitled to this because you did not have a question. We're making an exception this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u21	The minister didn't answer me. I guess he understood that I was saying the same thing as Mr. Gilkinet, when I was saying something slightly different. Mr Gilkinet referred to this parliamentary question to which the then minister replied that it was not necessary to inform another country concerned in the excess profit ruling. I was saying, for my part, that the law can be interpreted in various ways. The Anticipated Decisions Service interpreted it by saying that there was no need for equivalent taxation in the other country in order to grant a tax reduction in Belgium. It is a pure interpretation of the law that was made by the Anticipated Decisions Service but you could very well give another reading of this law. For example, in order to be able to grant a ruling in Belgium, there must be a commitment from the company concerned to have a corresponding tax equivalent in another country. I'm talking about a commitment that is not necessarily a prior commitment, but one that can be verified of course. It's not just information. These are the conditions under which the ruling is granted or not. You could do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u22	Colleagues, I have received two motions, one from Mr Gilkinet and one from the majority. I don't read it to you. These were distributed on the benches.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u23	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the Minister of Finance's response, asks the government 1. to cooperate fully with the Competition Directorate of the European Commission in its examination of excess profit rules and to suspend its application for the duration of this examination; (2) amend Article 185 of IARC 92 by clearly and indisputably defining the criteria for applying such excess profit rules and providing for full publicity of decisions taken (recipients, amounts and legal justification); 3. instruct the Anticipated Decisions Service to transmit without delay to the foreign tax administrations concerned the content of the rules already concluded under Article 185 of IARC 92 and to ask the European States to do likewise in relation to rules established for the benefit of Belgian companies under equivalent laws or practices; 4. to adopt a proactive and voluntary attitude in the context of the Ecofin work on the automatic exchange of information and the establishment of a tax base common to the various European countries, thus contributing to the construction of a European tax harmonisation; 5) to denounce the aggressive practices of promoting the Belgian tax system by the SPF Finances under the title Only in Belgium and to establish an ethical regulatory framework for this type of practice for the future. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Gilkinet and the answer of the Minister of Finance, asks the government 1) to fully cooperate with the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission in its investigation of excess profit rulings and to suspend the application of those rulings for the duration of that investigation; 2) amend Article 185 of the WIB 92 in order to establish clear and indisputable criteria for the application of such excess profit rulings and to include full disclosure of decisions taken (beneficiaries, amounts and legal basis); (3) instruct the Prior Decision Service to immediately pass on the content of the rulings already concluded under Article 185 of the WIB 92 to the foreign tax administrations concerned and to ask the European Member States to do the same with regard to rulings in favour of Belgian companies under similar laws or practices; 4) adopt a proactive and voluntaristic attitude in the context of the work of the Ecofin Council on the automatic exchange of information and the introduction of a common tax base for the various European countries, thus contributing to the achievement of a European tax harmonisation; 5) distance itself from the aggressive promotion of the Belgian tax regime by setting the FPS Finance under the name Only in Belgium and an ethical regulatory framework for such promotional activities in the future." A simple motion was tabled by Sophie Wilmès, Veerle Wouters and MM. Luk Van Biesen and Eric Van Rompuy. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Sophie Wilmès and Veerle Wouters and by Mr Luk Van Biesen and Eric Van Rompuy. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u24	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question is directly inspired by the FPS Finance's annual report. In 2013, he published the tax control figures. I was very struck by the figures on the number of employee checks for PPI. If I read correctly, their number rose from about 320,000 in 2011 to less than 30,000 in 2013, or ten times less. When asked about this dramatic decrease in the number of IPP checks, the SPF Finance spokesman gave a very frank response in a press article: "The reduction in the number of IPP declarations checked is mainly due to a similar significant decrease in the number of employees in the tax services. (...) As a result, every drop in personnel results in a decrease in control capacity." Another lesson that I draw from this 2013 FPS Finance report is that, as far as PPI is concerned, local selection has virtually disappeared. Fortunately, this is not the case for corporate tax (ISOC), as it would appear that the relevance of central selection is not the most obvious. This relevance is based on the percentage of files that have been modified, as it can legitimately be assumed that a selected folder that has not been rectified has probably been improperly selected. Specifically, in 2013, of the 14,784 cases selected locally for corporate tax, 12,148 resulted in a change of relevance of 82.1%, which is an increase over previous years. In the same year, the relevance of central selection to ISOC is 49.46 %. This figure was 65.42 per cent in 2011 and 58.96 per cent in 2012. As a result, there appears to be a continuous decrease in the percentage of files modified as a result of central selection. Minister, do you confirm that reducing the number of FPS Finance officers is the main cause of the decline in the number of PPI controls? How do you explain the highest percentage of files modified among locally selected folders? How do you explain the fact that for ISOC controls, the number of modified folders is decreasing continuously if only the centrally selected folders are taken into account? Will you continue to intensify the number of checks on the basis of central selection at the expense of checks on the basis of local selection, which seems far more relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the total number of cases checked, it should be noted that ex officio taxation for permanent non-applicants is increasingly being dealt with in management. This explains the shift in the number of ex officio taxes from the "control" column to the "management" column, both in terms of IP and ISOC. Since these files represent a high percentage of the corrections and are less represented in the total number of controlled statements in the "control" column, this results in a reduction in the percentage of modified statements in the "control" column. The reduction in the number of controlled PPI returns is mainly due to a similar significant decrease in the number of employees in tax services. That said, it is likely that the honourable member will have escaped only if the number of PPI returns examined decreased sharply over the period 2011-2013: 3.8 million statements examined in 2011 for 2.7 million statements examined in 2013 (rounded numbers), the number of corrected declarations also increased: 522,000 in 2011 for 614,000 in 2013. As well as the amount of revenue increases (again rounded) from $3.8 billion in 2011 to $4.3 billion in 2013. As a result, my administration compensated for the decrease in staff by improving efficiency in the processing of PPI returns. In ISOC, despite a decline in control capacity, there is an increase in the number of controlled reports. In general, the increase in controls is linked to the multiplication of spot ISOC controls for which the control must be limited to the examination of one or two very precise points. These limited one-time checks lead to the possibility of modified reporting less than in the case of a check in which all the points in a return can be checked, but allow greater coverage at the level of tax control of the entire population of the target group. This ensures a more consistent and equitable treatment of the taxpayer, but in some cases this is accompanied by a decrease in the percentage of amended returns. Taxation services do not have the sole task of carrying out the checks. They must also manage declarations, process disputes and provide services. Management activities have been subject to extensive automation and the time required for these activities can no longer be reduced. As a result, each staff decrease results in a decrease in control capacity. The General Administration of Taxation is endeavouring to remedy this negative development by intervening on the following two factors. First, in recent years, it has introduced a new control strategy based on risk management. It is a set of priorities for one-time and targeted controls, selected centrally, which often take less time because risks are identified and an approach to control is established. Another, no less important, effect of this strategy is an increased equal treatment of taxpayers in the same group. Not only is the guarantee given that taxpayers, in similar circumstances, have the same chance of obtaining control, but also, through the control approach, that they will be treated in the same way. Another important point is the announcement of planned control actions to increase spontaneous compliance with tax obligations. Secondly, it has optimized its working methods for management through further automation of this process. This means, on the one hand, that by fine-tuning the validation rules, electronic returns contain fewer errors and therefore require less intervention by the tax agent; on the other hand, the filters that detect these anomalies have also been optimised, filters that block the declarations and make management more efficient. Finally, as reflected in the government agreement, the use of data mining techniques by the central control section will also be supported. By way of illustration, at ISOC in 2013, the number of local selection checks represented only 17% of the total, while the central selection represented 83% of the total. In 2011, this distribution was 23% for local selection and 77% for central selection, respectively. The combination of these two types of selection allows for a balanced approach to selection of controls. On the one hand, local selection allows the services to select the files they consider to be productive on the basis of local knowledge. On the other hand, central selection implements a policy of objective selection criteria in order to ensure the fair treatment of all taxpayers. This increased central selection in 2012 and 2013 has sometimes resulted in a lower proportion of productive controls, but tends to improve. Recently, a monitoring system has been put in place to ensure, inter alia, a positive change in the results of central selection and the rapid interruption of actions which proved to be too unproductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u26	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I would be happy if, in due course, you could provide me with information on this monitoring system on the negative effects of central selection as practised. Furthermore, I have taken note of the measures implemented by the Finance FPS to try to counteract the negative developments that you have recognised: automation, the announcement of planning, equal treatment, the risk management strategy. All of this may help to limit the breakage. However, Minister, unless I am mistaken, you have spoken of a negative development due to the downsizing of staff. I therefore think that it will be necessary, at some point, to realize that we are reaching the limits of the model. And, in view of the budgetary control of March 2015 and subsequent years, it will have to be concluded that the reduction in staff costs necessarily has negative effects. We cannot play on this path of economy without unfortunately having to bear the consequences, including in terms of the return of tax controls. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 959 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 990 by Mr Van Biesen was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I may not have to explain the history of the dossier; it is clear to everyone. There was also the sending back and forth of subpoenas, to Deminor, to the ARCO drivers, to ARCO itself. In 2011, the then government promised a state guarantee to the ARCO co-operatives, but this encountered some resistance within Europe. The Minister at the time has tried to negotiate, but so far we still do not have a final result, especially because the State has appealed against Europe's decision. The current Michel administration is still looking for a solution. There is a haircut, whereby savers would get back up to a third or half of their money. The ACW, the State and Belfius should support this. Minister, what is the state of play in the ARCO dossier? Can you say something about those 100 000 co-operatives? Are there negotiations with Belfius and the ACW on the distribution key? Can you give us an update? When are you going to provide a solution so that the co-operatives can see back some of their money?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u29	Mr President, I will try to answer the questions as clearly as they were formulated, although I do not know whether they will succeed. As mentioned in the government agreement, the government will at least streamline the Belgian deposit protection organisation, life insurance, investment instruments and cooperative savings products and transpose the new European Deposit Guarantee Directive. Following the initiatives of the previous governments, this government will ensure the development of an effective scheme for the compensation of natural persons, the co-operatives of recognised financial cooperatives. You have already referred to it, on 3 July 2014, the European Commission has considered the debt guarantee scheme to protect the shares of individual members of financial cooperatives as prohibited State aid. As a result of this decision by the European Commission, the formal Belgian scheme cannot be implemented. The Belgian State, together with the cooperatives concerned, appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union. That case is still pending and we must at least wait for it. However, the appeal shall not have suspensory effect in relation to the decision of the European Commission. Also on the other points raised, such as Belfius, ACW and keys, the discussion is pending and, in fact, partly depends on the way the legal field is handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u30	Minister, you announced that you would try to give a precise answer. Your answer is precisely that you say that you do not actually have a solution yet. If I understand you correctly, you will wait for the verdict and then we will see what else the Belgian Government can do. I think I can translate your answer in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u31	Question 1057 by Mr Vanvelthoven has been converted into a written question. The questions put by Mr Van de Velde and Mrs Pas were taken under item 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u32	Mr President, I would like to ask you a few specific questions. I was present in this committee in order to be able to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u33	In that case, I shall give you the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u34	Minister, the law of 5 May 2010 stipulated that EUR 1 billion would be transferred to the European Support Fund for Greece. What you say about the spirit of time at the time is true. There was then a number of contaminated loans in the banking sector. Other solutions would have been possible, but the budgetary path was chosen at that time. A solution was sought through the Greek budget and it was supported. There were other roads, too, but it's true now. What is important is to get a purely pecuniar state of affairs. What was actually transferred to Greece? What is in the fund, because of Belgium and...... if you have the figures.... in the total? That might be for next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u35	Mr President, as far as the Belgian figures are concerned, I can give you the following information. The Minister of Finance has been authorised by law to grant loans to Greece for up to EUR 2.86 billion in the framework of the joint international effort to cope with the Greek crisis. Belgium granted loans totalling EUR 1.945 billion. There is therefore a margin of EUR 900 million. The loans were made available in instalments, in parallel with the aid paid out by other countries and the European and international institutions, particularly the IMF. Greece will have to repay the loans granted by us from 2020. The current repayment schedule runs until 2041. That is the current situation. If there is a change to this and there is a possibility of a debt restructuring or partial debt cancellation at European level, then we will have to look at its repercussions on the amounts outstanding. At the moment, however, there is nothing concrete to say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u36	Mr President, Minister, according to reports in the press in mid-December last year, the Bank of Jerusalem made an offer to buy back the shares held by the Dexia group, a structure owned by the Belgian state, in Dexia Israel. This offer was presented to the board of directors of Dexia Israel. According to a press release, Dexia quickly refuted the start of talks with Bank of Jerusalem on this subject, while reaffirming its desire to sell its shares in Dexia Israel. In October 2013, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the occupied Palestinian territories published a report pointing to Dexia SA's responsibility as a majority shareholder (66%) of Dexia Israel in financing illegal settlements by the latter. Furthermore, at the time, we learned from your predecessor, Mr. Geens, that the resale of the shares held by the Dexia Group faced legal obstacles, without further precision. Minister, what is the current situation in Dexia Israel? What are its current activities? Who's leading it? Do you have any guarantees that Dexia Israel does not provide or more funds for illegal activities in the occupied territories? What, if any, are these guarantees? Is the will of Dexia's leadership to resell Dexia Israel? We can doubt it, in view of this refusal. How long? What is the expected amount of this transaction? Why was the Bank of Jerusalem's bid to buy Dexia Israel refused by Dexia's management? What is the amount proposed for this buy-back? What are the legal obstacles to the resale of Dexia Israel? Have they been lifted since October 2013? Are they in the process of being so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u37	Mr Gilkinet, the situation of Dexia Israel Ltd (DIL) is a bank subsidiary of the Dexia Group, 65% owned by Dexia Crédit Local and listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Its main activity is to provide financial services to local communities in Israel. DIL is headed by David Kapah (CEO) under the responsibility of a nine-member board of directors, including representatives of minorities and independent directors, in which Dexia does not have a majority. In view of the guarantees that Dexia Israel does not lend credit to illegal activities in the occupied territories, without discrimination not permitted by Israeli law, since 2008, DIL has no longer granted new loans to settlements in the occupied territories. In addition, a new litigation aimed at convicting DCL or some administrators, as a so-called boycott of the financing of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territory. With regard to existing loans, the current outstanding amount represents EUR 1 million or 0.09% of Dexia Israel's total outstanding amount. The maturity of the residual loans shall run until 2018 at the latest. DIL is not in a position to impose an advance payment, which will be considered illegal. Your third question concerns Dexia's willingness to sell Dexia Israel and the deadlines. The revised ordered resolution plan provides for the sale of Dexia Israel's stake within 12 months of a final decision on the various legal actions against Dexia Israel and Dexia Crédit Local as shareholders. It's important. A more detailed explanation can be found in the company's annual report on page 41. Why was Dexia Israel's bid to buy out the Bank of Jerusalem refused by Dexia's management? The Bank of Jerusalem submitted an unsolicited offer to Dexia Israel's board of directors on 16 December 2014, to which Dexia Israel responded immediately. In accordance with its local regulatory obligations, it is for the sole board of directors of DIL, which includes representatives of all the shareholders of DIL, to assess the interest of this offer for all its shareholders and then to decide on this offer. That said, Dexia, as a shareholder of DIL cannot accept an offer that is not the result of a competitive selling process in order to optimize the value of Dexia Israel for the benefit of all stakeholders, including Dexia's shareholder and guarantor states. To be quite precise, in a press release of 17 December 2014, issued in response to press reports of advanced discussions with the Bank of Jerusalem, Dexia strongly denied any negotiations with that bank or one of its representatives, but did not comment further on the delivery of this offer. Your last question concerns the legal obstacles to the resale of Dexia Israel. Four legal disputes now affect DCL and DIL before Israeli courts. None of these disputes has so far been resolved definitively. A detailed explanation of this dispute can be found in the company's annual report on page 41.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u38	Minister, thank you for this particularly comprehensive and clear answer. I think the best thing would be that Dexia Israel could be resold by Dexia, but I hear that there are obstacles to this. I hope that they will be lifted as soon as possible and that this bad Dexia story can be extinguished to the best of our country's financial and ethical interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u39	Mr Gilkinet, your question has been retained, but, in my view, it is not the kind of question that must be asked in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u40	Mr President, this issue has a political and financial impact that you may not suspect. I had asked Mr. Geens, the previous Minister of Finance, about the installation of new portals in the North Galaxy. The total amount of the public procurement was 2 500 000 euros for the installation of these portals and a new software. However, FPS Finance officers learned by e-mail on December 17, that they should no longer use these new portals. My question is therefore of a political nature, even if it may give the impression of being administrative in nature. In any case, she's not annoyed. Indeed, in the current context, throwing hundreds of thousands of euros out of the window is problematic. That's the context. As I said, on December 17, the FPS Finance officers located in the North Galaxy were informed by e-mail of the implementation of a new system for managing their working time via portals. In early 2014, they were invited to use the Prime Time app to record their work time. The FPS Finance management department had associated requests for attendance and absence, leave and service waivers. However, since the beginning of this year, FPS Finance employees working in the North Glaxy Building have had to use the My P&O system again to settle their absences, attendances and leave, rather than Prime Time. It appears that the adaptations to My P&O were carried out internally while the introduction of Prime Time required the particularly costly use of a private operator, namely 624 000 euros for portals, 90 000 euros for software, in the context of a market of 2 500 000 euros. Minister, can you tell me how much was spent on the TCTR project by the FPS Finance? What is the share of access portals? What is the share related to the recording of working time itself? What is the amount spent on the adjustments requested, as a result of changes made at the end of 2013 to the variable schedule system? What is the amount spent on the market for the installation of access portals to the new Tour des Finances de Liège? What is Prime Time's added value compared to the old gateways to the North Galaxy? How was it possible to make in-house developments in My P&O when the use of Prime Time via a service market was justified by the need to use a private company, given the complexity of the scheme? These are technical issues, but they hide unnecessary expenses, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u41	Mr President, there are five questions again. The first relates to the cost of the project. I'm going to give exact amounts. The TCTR project cost €751,740 excluding VAT, including €661,390 excluding VAT for access portals and building security, and €90,350 excluding VAT for the Prime Time software for recording time itself. This amount included the installation, setting and testing of the software as well as the training of FPS Finance officers. It is important to note that access portals have not been changed in order to install a time-bound recording system, but since new access portals are to be installed for logistical and security reasons, the FPS Finance took the opportunity to add a time-recording system. The second question concerns the adaptation of the new variable schedule system. The adjustments made necessary by the change made at the end of 2013 to the variable schedule system resulted in an additional consultation of €45,930 excluding VAT. With regard to the access portico to the Tour des Finances de Liège (question 3), the SPF Finances did not install an access portico in the new tower when establishing the TCTR project. The tower of Liège is equipped with access gates but these have been installed by the owner of the building. Prime Time's surplus value (question 4). Former access gates had badge readers that were only useful for access management. Time recording was done at the time by mechanical pointers and paper cards. On the other hand, badge readers of the new security portals have been linked to Prime Time system software for recording computer and modern working time. Development My P&O (question 5). The My P&O system developed internally has been available since February 2013 and is accessible to all FPS Finance officials. It is the preferred interface for personal data. The TCTR project did not provide for the management of leave requests. As a result of recent developments in the My P&O tool, it has been decided to remove leave requests in the Prime Time tool in order to have a unique absence request system, including paid leave, unpaid leave and reduced benefits. The development of this aspect is planned for 2015 in My P&O. This return of leave management in My P&O did not require new developments. Its features have been in place since 2013. On the other hand, only the absence request screen turned to My P&O. This is a development and improvement of the system. Finally, the settings previously performed in Prime Time are not lost because Prime Time continues to calculate the working time of agents on the basis of the codes communicated via the interface between My P&O and Prime Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u42	Minister, this is a somewhat technical question that hides what I think is difficult to justify in an important context of restricting resources for FPS Finance workers. The amounts are not anodizing: installation of new portals and recourse to outside consulting companies, while there are internal competences, as we see in the changes that you have just explained. I'm sorry. I hope that as a new minister, you will be careful not to throw money out the windows and to respect and prefer internal resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, the Support Claims Service (SECAL) is an important tool for helping vulnerable families to recover unpaid support payments and to fund advances. Since May 2014, following the adoption of a bill in this committee and in plenary, the maximum amount to benefit from these advances has been 1,800 euros, compared to 1,300 euros previously. The new law has also expanded recovery opportunities to other families, including beneficiaries of integration income. As the number of families eligible for such assistance increased significantly, a larger budget was needed. According to the newspaper Le Soir on Monday, the expert commissioned by your administration estimated the number of additional families to be 4,295, an increase in the cost of 8 million euros. However, the 2015 federal budget only provides for an increase of €1.2 million in the SECAL grant compared to 2014. The Court of Auditors also noted that this budget would be insufficient. Several associations, including representatives of women and families, are concerned about the situation and the ability of SECAL to play its role effectively. Minister, how many more families will be affected by SECAL advances as a result of the amendment of the ceilings? Do you confirm the existence of an under-financing of SECAL? How high? What is the reason why a sufficient budget has not been made available when the government has the information it needs to do so? How do you intend to remedy this? And within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u44	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, in a study conducted by Professor Pacolet (HIVA-UCL), it was estimated, on the basis of the 2009 data, that 4,295 families could be taken into account following the entry into force of the new legislation. This would represent 6,733 children. The additional budget cost was estimated at $8 million. Whereas in 2014 the SECAL budget amounted to EUR 24.4 million, a budget of EUR 25.58 million was foreseen for the 2015 budget year in order to ensure the payment of advances on maintenance claims. It goes without saying that the situation will be rectified during budgetary control 2015, in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u45	Mr.President, Minister, you are therefore confirming my figures and, above all, you are making a commitment to adjust the budget as early as March 2015. I will remain attentive and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u46	It's about timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u47	Mr President, first of all, I wish to express my best wishes for the new year. I'm glad to see you again. Minister, I am also pleased to see you and your staff again. We've had a fascinating end of the year. Let us hope that we can continue on that momentum here in committee. The discussions that dominated not only the end of 2014 but also the beginning of 2015 are the discussion about the tax shift. Mr Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister, made quite explicit statements on the tax shift last weekend, apparently to the detriment of his colleagues. I know that there is little chance that you will give the contours of such a tax shift here today. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you the following question today. My question has a rather modest character. What's the timing? In fact, clarity about timing could mean a lot. Clarity is also the minimum. The idea also lives up to a number of experts, among others Professor Maus, has directed them to work with an expert committee. I have double feelings about that idea. On the one hand, it is of course interesting to get input about the tax shift from society and from the academic world. On the other hand, we had a committee of inquiry. The slopes in this area and the possible directions are clear. I have my doubts about such a committee. However, since it is alive, I would like to ask you about that. So my question today is the next one. What timing do you have in mind? Is that budget control in March 2015? Is the tax shift or is it not a link to budgetary control? Do you feel anything for the idea of an expert committee or are you pursuing a different methodology?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u48	Mr Calvo, my best wishes also to you and to yours. Contrary to your expectations, I will reply relatively concretely. The poison is, of course, in the concept of relative. The intention is that by March we should come to the government with a number of concrete recommendations so that we can start the discussion on the basis of these recommendations in accordance with the spirit and letter of the coalition agreement. As far as the tax shift is concerned, we are providing the broad outline by March. This means that this is more or less in line with budgetary control. I want to make it clear that a tax shift is exactly what it is, especially a tax shift and not a tax lift. In this sense, the exercise of a tax shift is not a contribution, in the short term, to the exercise to be carried out in the context of budgetary control. If we succeed in boosting the growth potential of the economy in the longer term by means of a tax shift, this will obviously also have repercussions on public finances and the budget in the long term. However, this is the long run, and Keynes once said, I quote: "In the long run we're all dead." I hope that we can make a meaningful tax shift and that we can see the consequences of that tax shift on our economy before I and Mr Van Rompuy have died.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u50	Mr Calvo, on your comment on specialists, I share your opinion: a great deal has already been published. During the Christmas celebrations, I kept myself uncomfortable to read everything about it that the Supreme Court of Finance has already published about it. That is very much and well documented. We do know about what we are up to and we can refine a few things in terms of assessing certain consequences of tax increase and tax reduction, which is what a tax shift is about. Creating very extensive situations around it is something that I do not really rule out, but it does not really seem necessary to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It has the advantage of getting a visual on the timeline. That is already a step forward, compared to the total lack of clarity or certainly the disputes that exist within the government. Not only does the opposition notice this, but also a lot of opinion makers and the press. I have some more concrete elements of reply. As a group, we are also a great advocate of a tax shift, not the world championship of more taxes. In this sense, I can only welcome the fact that there is a decoupling of our country's fiscal situation and budgetary control. Only our group believes that budgetary control, which may have to close a strong gap, must be done in a fair manner. As far as we are concerned, the savings limit has been exceeded and, for example, as far as Mr Van Rompuy's party is concerned, reached. We are talking about a decoupling, but we are, of course, looking forward to budgetary control if there is a total taboo on new revenue. A second element is that the debate is so strong in society that the government will do something. That's my belief. Something will happen. That is why CD&V is so persistent in that. CD&V is convinced that something will happen, but it is not enough that something happens and that it becomes a kind of marketing operation or a caiman tax bis. In the coalition agreement, the caiman tax tried to do something in the sphere of just income. This has been pumped up to show that something has been done. In this way, the social debate has been tried to put an end to it. That was tried with the coalition agreement, but it did not succeed. We will probably try that again. In that sense, doing something, a marketing operation, is not enough for our group. A tax shift of millions of euros is not enough. You yourself said that there are a lot of reports, including from the Supreme Court of Finance. The tax shift must be substantial, in the order of billions. It must be a marked shift. I really want to underline at this stage that the tax shift must be substantial. I come to the third element. You know that we are very fond of the shift towards the greatest power and capital gains. It's a huge business. Something must be done for that. The question is what substance that will happen to. However, I would like to emphasise one element which is much less in the debate, namely pollution. The greening of our taxation is much less in the social debate, but it is at least as important. I therefore call on you to take with you, in the exercise, which you will apparently enter into in the relatively short term, in March, the greening of taxation on the ground. I think there are only two countries in the EU that have less green taxation than we do. The Plan Bureau's report on the greening of taxation shows that our taxation is becoming less green in relation to GDP over the last ten years, if I am not mistaken. I would therefore like to make that last point of concrete reply today. The greening of taxation is very important in the context of the tax shift. Not only more righteous, but also greener.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u52	I want to say a few words about this expert committee. There has been a time when economists gave their opinions on certain economic problems about every six months or every year and tried to do so from a scientific point of view. What we are now experiencing is that we can read a piece of a professor's piece every day on websites or in newspapers. Those are no longer professionals, they have become actors in political life. The same goes for Professor Devos. There used to be politicians who spoke every six months or every other year. Now they have become actors who take positions and want to translate positions, to exercise influence, and so on. Mr Calvo, I no longer believe in an expert committee consisting of professors De Grauwe, Maus, Wim Moesen, Istendael and Ivan Van de Cloot and perhaps still chaired by Carl Devos, who could then bring forward a coherent tax system among themselves. Firstly, they have already burned themselves with all possible views which then vary month after month. Mr Moesen used to be in favour of spending being on the zero line. Now he believes that expenditure may increase slowly because otherwise there is deflation, and so on. I now also see great statements by Professor De Grauwe on capital gains taxes. A year ago, that was a taboo. I do not know whether it is the case on the French-speaking side, but the Flemish economists have been absolutely committed and have become their actors. They get into the news and actually have more political impact than the Members themselves who are no longer being asked for their opinion. It is about what Mr Maus and Mr De Grauwe think and how their views have evolved. That Minister Van Overtveldt did that as a journalist at the time was good to me, and that was also his job as a journalist. However, the professors have now become actors. I'm sorry about that. In this way they play a purely political role and their expertise, which there is no doubt, is no longer as relevant to us as ten years ago when, for example, they had the economic views of professors Paul Van Rompuy, Albert Verheirstraeten and Heremans. They also published something on a regular basis. For example, Professor Joep Konings published something about competitiveness. Now they have become actors in development. What will come out of an expert committee, on which Professor Maus now insists? They will have to compromise all the positions they have already taken in order to arrive at a coherent vision. I regret that. From an academic point of view, that is a weakening, but that is my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u53	I would like to say something about that, in order to avoid any misunderstandings. Mr Van Rompuy, you have a rather strong opinion on the attitude and expertise of a number of professors. My doubts about the model of an expert committee are different from yours. I do not think there is necessarily a need for an expert committee at this stage because there is already a lot of material available. For example, a special chamber committee has just been closed. When it comes to the expert committee's method, our conclusion may be the same, Mr Van Rompuy, but our argument is different. Meanwhile, the media system has changed and the professors' field of work is different than it was 20 years ago, as politicians' field of work is different from 20 years ago. I believe that, as politicians, we should only be satisfied if people are actively involved in the social debate on taxation, which is flourishing, and that academics should therefore be fully involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-06-54-commissie-ic043x.u54	Minister, it has been a long meeting. I think we've dealt with all the questions before Christmas. We will see whether there will be a committee meeting next week. That depends on the applications.
