ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u1	Minister, in recent years, the European Directive 2006/24 on data retention has generated a strong debate on the scope of privacy protection. You know that it was destroyed by the European Court in April 2014. After all, they were found to be disproportionate. Shortly before, in July 2013, that Directive was transposed into Belgian law. However, following the destruction of the directive, our national law was maintained pending a new European directive on data retention. On 12 March 2015, European Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos announced that the European Commission will not take a legislative initiative on this issue. There will therefore be no new European data retention directive to which our laws must comply. The European Member States are now free to develop national policies. This naturally creates opportunities for reviewing some controversial and enriching retention obligations and access obligations. Especially the latter are the biggest problem. I have some questions for you. Firstly, are you prepared to review the data retention obligations for telecom operators? You know there's a lawsuit going on. I have, of course, asked your colleague, Mr Tommelein, about this before, but he gave me an answer on the one hand. Maybe he's considering a party switch? You have already shown yourself to be a more consistent liberal and not to wait for a judge to condemn you. You have acted on the independence of BIPT. Do you also intend to await the destruction of the data retention law and an embarrassing situation for our country? Or will you act proactively and liberally? Secondly, in your policy paper, you described privacy security as a starting point for your policy. How will you apply this to the removal of European retention obligations? Thirdly, what are your policy objectives on retention in general? Do you want to weaken them in order to strengthen the protection of privacy and reduce the administrative burden on telecom operators? Or do you have other objectives in mind? I refer specifically to your statements about a level playing field for the telco and top players.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u2	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, as you yourself have pointed out, there is currently an action for the destruction of Belgian data retention legislation pending before the Constitutional Court. A ruling in this case is expected shortly and I would like to wait and see how the law needs to be revised together with the Minister of Justice. In addition, Commissioner Avramopoulos has announced a consultation round. This too is an element that we must take into account. I shall then come to your second question. The data retained by operators have always been subject to Belgian legislation on data protection and privacy. In this respect, the forthcoming new European Data Protection Directive will have an impact on Belgian legislation and the protection of data retained by operators will be strengthened. Thirdly, the framework within which the judicial services can rely on the data held by the operators is strictly governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. It is not intended to propose new legal provisions that undermine the right to privacy, weaken judicial control or information technology on the Internet, or even reduce the scope for very far-reaching intelligence practices among operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I do not immediately agree with an element in your answer. You say that access to that data is strictly framed. That's not always right. The security of the State also has access to this data even if this was not requested by the original European directive. In other words, we are going further than the European directive which has been destroyed in the meantime. We notice that, in addition to its legal practices, the security of the State also employs spies, but that is another discussion. I believe that, in both cases, access to data and the use of spies should be given serious consideration to current practices and our legislative framework. We must not wait for the outcome of the trial. We can already reduce the regulatory burden and make it a little bit more liberal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u4	Mr Geerts will be here a little later. Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Dedecker's 3306 should be decoupled. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 31, by Mr Blanchart 3532 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u5	Minister, since last year, the Walloon Region has obliged telecom operators to pay a fee of up to EUR 8 000 per year for any pylon or mast with mobile antennas. The municipalities can put a shovel on top of that for their own greenhouse. Meanwhile, there are 120 municipalities in Wallonia that do the same. Of course, there could be any time. You know that in Wallonia there are about 4 000 sites with mobile towers. So you can also calculate the enormous burden on telecoms that it may create. A number of operators have already set up a commission of EUR 42.5 million for this purpose, which is not a cat piss, my colleague from the Senate would say, and went to the Constitutional Court last year to have the tax destroyed. The operators will of course also have to pass on these costs to their customers. The tariff structure is national. In this way, the Flemish customers will also have to pay the Walloon tax. In addition, the tax is firmly at odds with the current and previous government's efforts to reduce tariffs and with your policy vision on the development of the digital economy, for which an omnipresent affordable mobile internet is essential, as you stated earlier. This isn't a new file. I already asked questions about it to your predecessor at the beginning of 2014, but they remained unanswered at that time. That's why I'm picking up the line and I'm here to knock on your door. European rules prohibit a tax on telecommunications infrastructures. Hungary was thus addressed after having imposed a special tax on the telecom operators. I refer to the European press release IP/11/308. To what extent is our country vulnerable to criticism or even a subpoena by the European Commission, as a result of the Walloon Region's decision? Was this discussed with the Walloon Government by the previous federal government? Did that matter come to the Conciliation Committee? What was discussed there? To what extent do you consider this measure to be contrary to your policy? I'd be surprised if you didn't think they were conflicting with your policy. Article 170 (4) of our Constitution provides for the possibility of restricting municipal tax autonomy "for the exceptions which appear necessary." To what extent were this tax and a possible restriction of municipal tax autonomy already assessed against the necessity criterion? One can go very far in that. The criterion concerns, inter alia, compliance with European directives and general policy. What possibilities do you see to put an end to this absurd tax? What initiatives have you taken in this regard? What initiatives has your predecessor taken in this respect? What initiatives will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u6	There are hundreds of municipalities that impose taxes on masts and pylons, either through municipal tax regulations, especially in Brussels and Flanders, or through municipal incentives, especially in Wallonia. The total amount for Proximus is about 8.2 million. Furthermore, provinces as well as the Regions may levy additional taxes on masts and pylons. On the basis of current legislation, the overall impact for Proximus is about €20 million. The mobile operators Base and Mobistar confirm to systematically fight each of these attacks, Proximus also if and in so far as legal arguments exist. The operators contest the attacks on the basis of Articles 97 and 98 of the Law of 21 March 1991. It is up to the competent jurisdictions to rule on the substance of the objections raised. The Belgian State acted as an intermediary in the appeal brought by mobile operators before the Constitutional Court. Taking into account the pending procedure, it is not appropriate to go into detail on the arguments put forward by the federal government. Between 2005 and 2008 the province of Antwerp applied a similar tax. On 4 September 2014, the Court of Justice, in the case of the Province of Antwerp, told Belgacom and Mobistar that such tax was in line with EU law. According to the Court, the European Authorisation Directive concerns the conditions for obtaining licences by operators and the use of radio frequencies and numbers, for example. The provincial tax is not levied on the granting of permits and therefore falls outside the scope of the Directive. Finally, in application of the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, the Community and the regions have jurisdiction to regulate municipal matters. I plan to consult with the Regions to point out to them that such a tax would be detrimental to further investments in network deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Belgian State is therefore an intermediate party there. That's news to me. I believe that this is a good thing. One thing you seem to have overlooked, or I didn't hear it right. Has this been discussed in the consultation committee in the past? Maybe I missed that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u8	Not that I know of. I should check it out. At least I haven't seen anything like that in the last three or four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u9	It is, of course, a very strange situation that when a region imposes such a measure which is in fact in conflict with the policy on telecommunications of the federal government, even the federal loyalty is not used to bring it to the Conciliation Committee and to discuss it. That is very regrettable. I look forward to further consultation from your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u10	Minister, my question was put to Minister Borsus a month ago, as start-ups operate as micro-enterprises within the legal framework for SMEs. Meanwhile, some of my questions have already been answered by the communications after budgetary control and the Digital Belgium Plan. Nevertheless, several questions remain very relevant for start-ups and SMEs, both digital and other. On 23 October 2013, leading European web entrepreneurs and successful pioneers of start-up communities presented a manifesto to EU leaders. This document sets out how Europe needs to adapt to the digital age and how policy makers at every level and in every country can improve the innovation and growth environment. Separate Member States followed the initiative. Among other things, the Netherlands, Spain, Greece and the United Kingdom have already written such a manifesto. A similar manifesto was also proposed in Belgium on 12 March 2015. The ambition is to create some 100 000 jobs in five years' time. Since our economy needs such ambition, the government must fully support it. A report published on 11 March 2015 estimated that more digitalisation of our economy and society could generate additional growth in Belgium for around €10 billion by 2020. In the start-up manifest, the technology sector makes the following proposals, among others: a new company structure that allows start-ups to start up and recruit flexibly; a limited social contribution and taxes, as long as no profit is made, thereby better protecting the start-up to contribute to society; guidelines for public authorities to buy more from start-ups rather than only from major names; training to discover talents and promote citizens' co-investment in start-ups. Action has already been taken here through the announced incentives in personal taxation and by facilitating crowdfunding, which we naturally fully support. However, the first part on the company structure remains very pertinent. Start-ups often no longer see the forest through trees because of the administrative rules and the very strict labour rules and social rules in recruitment. These rules are, of course, very important, but we must also understand that the financial and legal burden that such rules entail can be a major obstacle for start-ups. First of all, entrepreneurs do not have time for this, because they are rightly obsessed with the quality of their products. Secondly, a start-up company has no money for this. After all, it is mostly in debt during the start-up phase. So how can we simplify things for them, so that the government can stimulate people again, rather than scare them away? How can public procurement and supply provide more opportunities for small businesses? The United States and the United Kingdom can serve as an example in this respect. Training is, of course, primarily a regional competence, but programmers learn for life. Of course, successful start-ups are intended to grow rapidly into real SMEs. Many facilitating measures need to be taken in this context. You have an important responsibility for this, but the measures to be proposed and taken will obviously have to be worked out by several ministers. What contacts have you already had with startups.be with regard to the proposed manifesto? In the meantime, you have already given an answer, but Minister Borsus has not yet replied. Which other players have you already spoken to? What are your findings? If such conversations are to follow, when will they take place? Has Minister Borsus already had contact with the various relevant ministers on the subject? How does he agree his planned policies with the other relevant ministers? What input have you, as Minister responsible for the digital agenda, had in his policy plans? What consultations are you planning with the other competent ministers, according to what timetable, and with what expected concrete outcome? What approach do you propose to take? By when do you want to finish the overall package to meet the needs of the digital start-ups sector? When can we expect a next wave of facilitation measures? What time frame do you work in? How does this fit into the SME plan and crowdfunding for SMEs? What concrete measures in favour of digital start-ups can we expect in these plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u11	The chairman of startups.be, Karen Boers, is a member of Digital Minds. At the second meeting of Digital Minds the start-up manifesto was officially handed over to me. At the same time as the discussion of Digital Minds, we met in my cabinet with 200 players in the digital ecosystem, including entrepreneurs, investors, incubators, consultants and large companies. The findings of this discussion have helped us to prepare Digital Belgium. It is an action plan of the federal government that outlines the digital long-term vision for our country and translates it into clear ambitions. On the basis of five clear priorities, we want to strengthen Belgium's position on the digital map. That plan was presented on 20 April. We want to move from planning to implementation as soon as possible. The start-up plan contains four concrete measures: the tax shelter/starter discount for start-ups, the promotion of crowdfunding, lower wage costs for young companies and an investment discount for digital investments. The Minister of Work has taken a similar initiative to set up a summer night work scheme to ensure that we are competitive with our neighbouring countries. For the implementation of Digital Belgium I will very often be in contact with my other colleagues from the federal government. Most of the elements in the start-up plan are fiscal measures. I was able to work in a very constructive and productive way with the Minister of Finance Van Overtveldt. This afternoon, together with Willy Borsus, I propose the launch of the e-commerce platform. It is a permanent consultation platform with the sector, which will examine how we should adapt our legislation. I also have frequent contact with Mr Theo Francken with regard to open data. I have also been in contact with the Regions and Communities. Two weeks ago, I was in charge of education, Hilde Crevits, Joëlle Milquet and Harald Mollers, together with my colleagues, about how Digital Belgium can engage in the strengthening of digital skills in our education. When will the plan be completed and what are the next steps? Our idea has been to work a bit like a start-up, namely: to work out very quickly what the vision is and what the domains are in which we work and to move from the planning phase to the implementation phase as soon as possible. A first package was included in the start-up plan and further steps will be taken during the summer in the field of high-speed internet infrastructure deployment. In fact, we must assume that we will continue to take initiatives throughout the legislative period; some have already been included in the plan, others, which may become very important in two years' time, have not yet been included. The structure will certainly continue to evolve in the coming years. I do indeed play a coordinating role in this. On some issues, such as telecommunications, I am competent, while on other matters I will work with the Minister of Finance, the Regions and the Communities respectively. I am glad to hear that at least in the field of education one is absolutely asking party to work together, which is a very good evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I think there is good cooperation in the government, you have made a lot of contacts with the other ministers. We are on the right track and we really need to focus on the jobs that we can create with it. I wish you every success and we will see where the ship is docking in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u13	Mr President, Minister, in 2007 there were still 14,200 red mailboxes in Belgium. At the end of 2013, there were 13,187 boxes left, representing a removal of 140 boxes each year. Today, there would be a little more than 13,000 left. This decrease would go hand in hand with the drop in mail. There is an increasing use of electronic means and less and less paper. In 2014, bpost reported a 4.4% drop in mail (compared to 2013) and expects a further decrease in 2015. With just over 13,000 boxes, bpost boasts of complying with its public service contract, i.e. to keep at least one box per pre-merger commune (there were 2,359, compared to 589 currently). The company also tries to meet two other criteria: in rural areas, 90% of the population must find a box every 1,500 metres; in the city, it is a box every 500 metres. However, it seems essential to maintain a public service for people who do not use e-mail, such as older and low-income people. Therefore, Minister, will you take into account the problem of maintaining red boxes when drafting the next management contract? Will efforts be made to maintain a public service, and therefore the red boxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u14	Mr President, Minister, many things have already been said. It is true that in 2007 there were 14,200 red mailboxes. This figure is decreasing. According to bpost, this would be due to the fact that e-mail takes precedence over mail. There is therefore an objective reason. On the other hand, the bpost spokesman says he wants to maintain the current number of mailboxes, and therefore no longer delete them. It should not be forgotten that bpost is a public service company. Therefore, two criteria must be met: the first is to have a mailbox per commune and the second is to have one every 1,500 metres in rural areas and every 500 metres in urban areas. Minister, can you confirm to me the wish not to remove boxes for 2015? Are you able to confirm that bpost meets the two criteria set out above? Are there controls in this area? When a mailbox is removed due to lack of use, for example, do you reorganize all the mailboxes in the vicinity to continue to meet the proximity criterion? Does the removal of 140 boxes have an impact on employment within the company itself? Like mailboxes, will other post offices be removed? Thank you for taking stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u15	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the only regulatory provisions concerning red mailboxes are included in the Act of 21 March 1991 reforming certain public economic undertakings, in particular Article 142, and not in the management contract. The distance criteria adopted by bpost were to ensure that at least 90% of the population had a box less than 500 metres in urban areas and 1,500 metres in rural areas. These criteria chosen by bpost are purely indicative and are not binding. Today, with a network of about 13,000 red mailboxes, bpost largely meets its legal obligations. bpost operates in a constantly changing environment, marked among other things by declining volumes of mail. In order to increase efficiency and productivity and thus ensure financial viability, bpost is forced to adapt its organisation continuously. Over the past 10 years, many changes have already taken place at various levels of the company, including the mailbox network. As a result of this strategy, the number of jobs in the company has also decreased. The network is regularly adapted to the volume of mail according to the following criteria. First, the rate of use. bpost only removes very little or no used mailboxes. Secondly, the accessibility of the network and the service and the good geographical distribution. As regards the network of post offices, it goes without saying that bpost must comply with the legal and regulatory provisions which provide that the bpost retail network includes at least 1,300 postal service points. In addition, bpost will provide a postal presence of at least 650 post offices while guaranteeing at least one post office in each of the 589 communes. At a minimum, 95 per cent of the population must have access to a postal service point offering the basic range within 5 kilometres and at least 98 per cent of the population within 10 kilometres by road.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, the concern for profitability matters to us all because it is the main guarantor of employment in bpost society, but this criterion must not be the only one to guide the organisation of society. In recent years, as far as bpost is concerned, dividends have increased considerably. The concept of public service should not be sacrificed, particularly in the proximity dimension that postal service can have especially in rural areas. The adaptation is not quite what is claimed, namely in finding a mailbox every 1,500 meters. Indeed, I am thinking, for example, of the commune of Bertogne in the province of Luxembourg, which has 21 villages spread over 9,000 hectares. Citizens must travel several kilometres to post a letter. There is the general rule and special cases that make one citizen not always equal to another in relation to a service according to this notion of profitability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u17	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. I also thank you for clarifying some things that were wrong with the management contract. You say it's a public service that must be able to adapt. We must have a modern public service. We need a balance between the service and the direction we need to take. We know that e-mails and other items reduce postal mail. This is an issue for tomorrow, but we obviously need to have a good balance between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u18	Mr President, as I am expected in the Committee on the Economy, where quorum is requested, I would like to turn my question No 3534 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u19	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u20	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting on 28 April, you said that, with regard to its Retail network, bpost would guarantee a postal presence in the form of at least one office in each of the 589 communes. We are reassured. This mission will therefore be carried out in Thuin, Lobbes and Charleroi. However, you told us that a distinction should be observed between Retail and Mail activities. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. How will Mail activities evolve in rural municipalities? What about the situation in Thuin and Lobbes in particular? Is a grouping in the "mail centers" like that of Beaumont planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u21	Mr Blanchart, the strategic plan "Vision 2020" must enable bpost to adapt its organisation as effectively as possible to the evolution of the decline in volumes, generating economies of scale at the level of infrastructure without affecting the quality of service to the population and thus maintaining a sound financial situation for the company. Thus the distribution offices will be grouped in 60 "mail centers". Each "mail center" serves as a hub for the collection and distribution of mail as well as for packages in different municipalities. Thus, the "mail center" of Beaumont plays or will play this role in the communes of Froidchapelle, Chimay, Sivry-Rance, Beaumont, Thuin, Lobbes, Erquelinnes, Merbes-Le-Château and Momignies. This is an internal reorganization that will have no impact on the quality of service. The daily collection and distribution of mail, as well as the advanced distribution of newspapers, mail from administrations and businesses, are and will remain guaranteed throughout the country, including municipalities in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are therefore reassured that the quality of service is maintained! I hope that the workers in these areas will be able to keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u23	Mr President, Minister, over the last few weeks and months, there has been a lot of reading about the impact of cyber incidents, with figures. This matter was also discussed in committee with Mrs Leroy. The specific reason for this question was CERT.be's claim that the number of cyber incidents doubled in 2014 compared to 2013, namely 822 cases per month compared to 339. The CERT.be was then added to the chancellary of the Prime Minister for the sake of coordination. There, too, it is suspected that the actual number of incidents is higher, but there is still a way to go on reporting them. I would have liked to know exactly what actions are being taken with regard to the notification to the CERT.be. The doubling of the number of cases may be due to better awareness, but one of the comments was that many incidents have not yet been reported. Better promotion is therefore necessary. What additional measures will be taken to prevent cyber incidents? It is not in the question tabled, but I remember that at the end of the previous parliamentary term in this House there was an intention to have the Infrastructure, Home Affairs and Defence Committees meet together because, following the hacking of Belgacom, we had problems with cyber security. How was the urgency of this matter dealt with at the time? At that time it was said that it might be good to have a real cyber agency and therefore to work it out. This is not in the written record of my question, but I assume you can include this in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u24	Mr President, Mr Geerts, all the reports received by CERT.be are subject to a selection process. Based on the nature, severity, sensitivity, possible consequences, reliability of the source and frequency of the notification, it is decided whether the incident will be dealt with further. A treatment may include further analysis of the problem, or information and consultation with third parties, including, for example, CERT teams abroad, or concerted actions, or publication of a report or warning through available channels. In the event of an impact for the general public, communication is done via safeonweb.be. The CERT.be is working on increasing awareness through the media, through press releases, sketching the context and so on, through its own website and social media, through presentations at cyberconferences, but also through participation in initiatives such as the cybersecurity coalition or through collaboration with other parties such as Child Focus. The CERT.be is strengthened to respond to more incidents. CERT.be is also working on a study on the establishment of a national detection network. You asked an additional question about the cybersecurity center, but it belongs to the prime minister's jurisdiction. If I'm in the right position, the recruitment of staff is currently underway. The cybersecurity centre should not only be seen as a new, additional body, but above all as a body that coordinates between the different entities involved in cybersecurity today. As you know, the CERT.be plays a role in this, but there is also the Federal Computer Crime Unit, State Security, military intelligence and so on. A lot of people are doing that. Better coordination will certainly lead to better protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u25	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do believe that coordination is needed. I noticed that the moment I submitted my questions. Next to the FCCU, I received a response from the Home Office, from eCops, where almost no one is present today. If I put together all the figures I've been able to find from people working on cybersecurity, it's actually a big economic sector. I believe that coordination is necessary, and this needs to be further developed. I will put my questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u26	Mr President, Minister, this question follows on from the hearing with the BIPT in this committee and from a number of follow-up articles that I have found on this subject. One of the elements was that only 31% of consumers would have changed from telecom operators. During the previous legislature, we amended the legislation to allow consumers to make a better comparison with the "Durf Compare" campaign and the "Easy Switch," because we felt that that market was closed at some point and that legal measures had to be taken for consumers. During the hearing it was said that Belgium is at the top in Europe with regard to mobile and mobile networks, but that there may be a problem in the future with digital television and the provision of packs. Those who are considering reconnecting in the house must have holes drilled into the wall and the like, and leave it like that. This means that the market is not yet sufficiently open. In the Netherlands there is a system where you can easily switch from one operator to another using a smart card, somewhat similar to a mobile SIM card. It's a bit more difficult, but for smart TVs that have a digital video recorder, that could possibly be a stepping stone for the Easy Switch. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. To what extent is the knowledge of the Dutch system, where smartcards are used, present here? Is the BIPT aware of this? During the previous legislature, the "Durf Compare" campaigns were launched in 2013 and 2014. How many people have used the tariff simulators in those years? How many number transfers were there for fixed telephony and mobile telephony in 2012, 2013 and 2014? Will the "Durf Compare' campaigns continue? Is the budget available to enable that market to move sufficiently, especially in view of what is also on the agenda today, namely the potential danger of a certain form of oligopoly? What projects are there to make switching to another operator easier? What timing is foreseen? What would be the impact on consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u27	Mr Geerts, to change TV operators, we need a new smart card and a new decoder in the Netherlands, as in Belgium. The only difference between the two countries is that in the Netherlands they have an extensive choice of certified decoders, while in Belgium Proximus and cable operators only offer one or two decoders. None of the decoders offered in the Netherlands by KPN can be used on a cable network. TV decoders on the cable networks or on the telephone network differ greatly because they use different technologies. The possibility of developing a universal TV decoder was investigated by Professor Erik Dejonghe on behalf of BIPT. The study concludes that the development of a universal decoder is very expensive and will result in a delay in innovation and will not lead to the promotion of competition. It is therefore not the right path. Some smart TVs have a built-in decoder so you can work with a smart card. Such innovations will replace the individual decoder. So using the CI card is already possible today. I think Telenet's offering this. However, the standard that exists today is not usable on the copper networks. However, it is an evolution that takes place very quickly. As regards the number of consultations of the tariff simulator, there were 157 484 visits in 2012 and 817 956 visits in 2013. The campaign "Durf Compare" took place in November 2013 and resulted in a peak of 389 956 visits during that month. In 2014 there were 302 428 visits. I come to your question about the number of numbers transferred over the last three years. In 2012, 375 734 fixed numbers and 989 054 mobile numbers were transferred. In 2013, it was 289 988 fixed numbers and 1 218 085 mobile numbers. In 2014, it was 289 209 fixed numbers and 1 117 891 mobile numbers. The campaign was a one-off initiative of the then Minister of Economy. It is impossible to assess the real impact of the campaign on consumers' behaviour. The BIPT published its Easy Switch report in March, which contains the slopes to facilitate operator change. One of the most important recommendations is that the new operator should be entrusted by the consumer with the termination of the contract with the old operator, and would coordinate with the former operator with the aim of making migration more efficient and, above all, ensuring that there is no interruption of service. The first effects of the new measures are expected in the course of 2016. Seventhly, the threshold for users to change fixed operators can be reduced significantly, on the one hand, and this, on the other hand, will increase competition. There must also be a choice between different operators. The regulation of access to networks is an essential component. I expect to be able to issue the royal decision on Easy Switch before the summer. The BIPT will carry out a market consultation with a view to this in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will be able to read the figures in the report. I think it is important that innovative solutions are sought and that no old technology is used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 3612 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u30	Minister, I had some doubts as to whether I would submit this question, but I thought that we could discuss it in this committee after your comments in the newspaper. Even though I know that it is on the verge of Parliament's right of inspection. My question concerns your announcement that you would have the matter studied further by the BIPT, which is why I submitted the question. The history of the acquisition of Base by Telenet is well known. The media talked about easier access to the mobile network. That is understandable from a company logic, and it is not up to us to make a judgment on this either. The role Parliament can play is to assess whether there is no market distortion. We can ask BIPT to keep control of that. Furthermore, I believe that we should stay away from this dossier. We must, however, consider whether this is being done in accordance with the rules of competition. You said that you would instruct BIPT to investigate this further. Have you given a vision in this question of research, on which the BIPT should focus? When will the competition authority decide on this acquisition? Has the BIPT itself developed a vision? Have any conclusions been given to you? What role will it play? Mobistar said in a reaction that it has been asking for a long time to open the cable with reduced access prices, but that it has still not responded. Is this right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u31	Mr President, it is up to the competition authorities to identify the competitive conditions under which this sale to Telenet could be approved. I did indeed send a letter to the BIPT, about a month before the announcement of potential sales, because rumors were circulating in the newspapers. I asked the BIPT to consider what measures could be taken. In that letter, I indicated that it was up to BIPT to ensure that there was sufficient competition on the market to stimulate innovation and, above all, competitive prices. It is up to BIPT to make proposals, but I think it is crucial that we ensure that there is sufficient access to the networks. This access to the networks has two dimensions. First, there is the very extensive MVNO activity that Base had. Base has about 40 operators on her network. It seems crucial to me that this highly competitive dynamic in today's mobile sector is preserved. This is an element for which we must be attentive. A second element is access to all networks. Today, access to the copper network is regulated. This is not yet the case for the cable network. I think both runs are important. I have asked BIPT to develop a number of slopes on this. This isn't an exhaustive list. They can also carry other slopes. Given the size of the companies concerned, there is a real chance that this concentration will have to be notified to the European Commission. In this case, the European Commission will launch a phase 1 study which may last up to 25 days. If competitive problems are identified, which are not resolved by commitments offered, the Commission may open a more in-depth Phase 2 investigation which may last up to 90 days. The BIPT has the possibility to be heard by the competition authority at both European and Belgian level. It is common practice for the competition authority to consult the BIPT, because of its knowledge of the market, in telecoms cases with regard to the analysis it makes. The BIPT is reviewing wholesale charges for access to cable networks and a public consultation of the draft decision is foreseen in the second trimester with a view to a final adoption of the revised tariffs in the third trimester of 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for informing us of the timing. I understand that companies are increasingly seeking to concentrate their activities on their own territory. We can establish this. From a company logic this can be perfectly defended. However, as I said in my introduction, it is up to us as legislators or supervisory authorities to check whether everything is going according to the rules of art.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u33	Mr Friart is not here. You have the floor, Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u34	Minister, on 20 March you launched the Digital Belgium plan. For me, it was important that the plan should create 50 000 jobs by 2020. The plan includes other ambitious measures, such as the 5G mobile internet, government communication in digital form and closing the digital divide. Specialists did make a nuance with the number of 50 000 jobs. It wouldn't be a net 50 000 additional jobs. I also asked Mr De Clerck what the impact of technological innovation would be on the workforce. He replied that jobs can be created, but that it will not be about net employment. Due to the nature of the work, the tools and the digitisation, other jobs will be created, but therefore no additional ones. In the written preparation of my question, I also mentioned 200 jobs at Proximus and an annual job creation, but no net jobs. Can you give some more explanation on the Digital Belgium plan? Perhaps it would be useful to explain this plan here, Mr President, Minister. A fundamental debate on that seems to me to be necessary. We are now asking some oral questions, but I refer, for example, to Mrs Leroy's speech. Everyone was satisfied with that. That statement was an added value for the debate afterwards. That is why I would ask you to propose the plan in this House as well. It's an ambitious plan. Was the cost of its implementation calculated? Were sufficient budgetary resources available for this? Otherwise, I fear that there will be problems with its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u35	The aim of the Digital Belgium plan is to stimulate digital, innovative growth and create jobs. The plan is not without commitment and bets on three clear goals. By 2020, Belgium should be in the European top three of the most advanced countries in the digital field, with at least 1 000 new start-ups in the digital sector and 50 000 new jobs throughout the economy. This is about net growth. This is evident from studies by Comeos and Agoria. Also, according to the European Commission's Digital Minds for Europe study, five new jobs will be created for every two jobs destroyed by digitalisation. Of course, the five new jobs created are not at all the same as the two that are being destroyed. Hence the major challenge in the field of training and further training in competences. As you know, there are five substantive priorities in the Digital Belgium plan: digital economy, digital infrastructure, digital skills and jobs, digital trust and digital security, and digital government. Three to six priority projects have been developed for each of these pillars. A number of initiatives are already in the start-up phase. A concrete impact is expected for the coming months. For example, a few weeks ago, the government approved my start-up plan and the federal government will shortly be rolling out e-invoicing for its suppliers. Digital Belgium has been established in recent months after a long series of contacts, conversations and work visits. Other initiatives put forward include the National Alliance for Digital Skills and Jobs, on which I had a discussion with the three Education Ministers, a plan for the deployment of ultra-fast internet and a strategy for open data. For each of these priorities, resources will be provided, on the one hand, on the basis of existing budgets and, on the other hand, as for the start-up plan, on the basis of new resources made available during the budgetary conclave. As far as your question concerning a substantive debate on the plan in committee is concerned, as you know, I am your loyal slave. If you invite me, I'll come and answer the questions. However, the question is how we are going to organise this. It concerns very broad subjects, some of which belong in the Infrastructure Committee, some of which are certainly not part of the federal competence, some of which belong in the Business Committee and others, inter alia, to the functioning of the government. So we need to find out what is the right way. We could also agree to organise, for example after a year, a debate on the state of play. Digital Belgium was launched about a month ago and a number of issues are already the subject of a public debate. There is still a debate on this at the moment, which would give us the feeling that we are running behind the facts. An evaluation after one or two years to check where and what needs to be adjusted seems to me to be a useful exercise, but as I said, you set the agenda and I answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will agree with the committee secretariat to schedule an evaluation after one year to get a state of play on the roll-out of the start-up plan. I hope the net growth of jobs will come. This would mean that the economy is attracting and that a new boost can be given to employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u37	We shall agree on this point in the next order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u38	Mr Minister, Infrabel has asked the mobile operators to reduce the signal from the mast near railways, in order to avoid a problem of interference in the GSM-R network, which is needed for the ERTMS. Mr Van den Bergh and I have been taught many times about these safety signals and the importance for ETCS 2. Under Articles 13 and 15 of the telecoms Act, BIPT is responsible for monitoring the use of radio frequencies. The cause of malfunctions is prohibited. The BIPT itself investigates harmful faults based on complaints, in order to impose appropriate measures. The radio frequencies of the mobile R network may conflict with 2G, which is used for phone conversations. In the interests of rail safety, it is necessary for BIPT to develop a solution. Has the BIPT itself already taken an initiative for the control of 2G and the mobile R frequency that are close to each other and where possible malfunctions may occur? Will all interested parties be invited? I also put the question to Minister Galant, who is responsible for Infrabel. The reduction in the supply of communication channels has, of course, some impact on the residents and commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u39	Mr Minister, my question is in line with that of Mr Geerts. In fact, Mrs Leroy confirmed Infrabel's question at the hearing following a comment by Mr Van den Bergh. First of all, the frequencies for 2G with the private operators were recorded in advance and I am not talking about the mobile-R frequency. The frequency for cell phone R was recorded later. Is there any overlap? If so, how come? I believe that a frequency plan had to be drawn up and that non-overlapping frequencies had to be allocated to the different operators, including mobile phone R? Wasn't that the case? How is it that the problem is only now occurring? Those frequencies have been recorded for a long time, haven't they? Secondly, the BIPT has recently completed a public consultation on the frequency plan in order to provide, inter alia, additional frequencies in the future. A number of slopes are now being looked at for additional frequencies. To what extent can they provide a solution to the problem? Thirdly, to what extent do you consider in our country, with its very high rail density, a reduction in the transmission power of one operator on its assigned frequencies in favour of the transmission quality of another public operator or of the mobile R operator for ECTS to be a realistic and sustainable solution? Almost every cell tower is near a railroad. Fourthly, what long-term sustainable solution do you see for both the train operator and the private operators to ensure high-quality network coverage with corresponding capability? Do LTE Advanced and 5G not offer the possibility of making train communications within the framework of ECTS 2 a priority, not so much via their own mobile network but via the network of another operator, MVNO for example? For example, one avoids one's own expensive network along the railways, and a little-used infrastructure where the data sheet is a lot less than on a network where people surf? Fifthly, what is the position of the BIPT on Infrabel's question? In what way can or should the BIPT intervene? Which slopes are considered in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u40	The mobile R-band is located next to the 900 megahertz band, which has been assigned to the mobile operators. The main cause of the problem is a lack of selectivity of the mobile R receptors, which fail to filter out the signals from the adjacent band. This problem is not of Belgium's own accord, since the use of the GSM-R band and the 900 megahertz band is harmonised at European level. On 25 February 2015, BIPT published a public consultation on ensuring the co-existence of Infrabel's mobile network and the public mobile networks of the 900 megahertz band. All interested parties were given the opportunity to comment. The use of the same sites for the different mobile networks may reduce the risk of interference. The longer term solution consists in the placement of filters at the level of the mobile R receivers. The use of the GSM-R network specifically for the railways is an obligation due to the European regulatory framework. The BIPT believes that closer cooperation between public mobile operators and Infrabel can lead to an improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Minister, with regard to the last element, tomorrow we must ask Minister Galant to sit together at the table, because it has an impact on security. In the long term, filters are good, but in the short term, especially given the roll-out of ECTS 2 on a number of lines, a solution has to be found, otherwise there is a problem with roll-out. Mr Van den Bergh mentioned this last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u42	Minister, your answer was a lot shorter than the questions, but that is not a problem in itself. I note that the problem seems to be because of Infrabel's choice of materials for his network. That's pretty problematic. It would be awesome if a poor choice of materials had the effect of undermining the entire telecom network of all operators. Of course you can't. We must therefore use filters as a priority in the short term. This may not be a long-term solution, but it is not in itself a very serious matter. However, the complexity of the story will be the large number. Furthermore, I specifically asked to consider an MVNO network, possibly with LTE Advanced. We really need to investigate that case. Have you planned an additional investigation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u43	Today, Europe requires the use of mobile R networks for the railways. The problems of interference are mainly relative to mobile phone R. The filters that Infrabel needs to place in order to get the signal out better are the mobile R networks. On the mobile networks there is actually no problem today. There is no danger to mobile telecommunications networks. It's actually in the other direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u44	Mobile telecommunications networks do indeed have no problem today, that material has been correctly placed. However, there would be a problem if, as a result of Infrabel's poor choice of material, the question arises to punish those who have done their homework and to ask them for a lower transmission capacity. One cannot, of course, punish the good student. That sounds crazy to me. Europe needs its own network. The question is whether it should be a physical network for 100 % or whether it can also be a virtual network. We need to look at this issue at European level to ensure that we are on board with the latest technological opportunities that guarantee safety, ease of use and comfort together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u45	The subject will be on the agenda of Minister Galant tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u46	Minister, the BIPT has recently published a study to evaluate the four-year opening-up of the postal market. The conclusion is striking: the opening-up of the market has failed because the monopoly has been de facto maintained. As a result, prices for consumers have not fallen and even increased for some services. There is, however, a need to make a comment. The prospect of liberalisation led to a strong internal reform of Bpost, which also greatly increased quality. As a result, it has become a more performant company, but of course it is still just a player. Responsibility for the lack of competition lies with the excessively high barriers to entry into the market. Some of these thresholds are contained in the conditions for obtaining a licence from postal companies. Minister, do you share this analysis? Do you think it is desirable that the closed system of licences should be maintained? Do you consider it appropriate to replace this system with a more flexible authorisation because of the regulator, such as in Denmark, Ireland and Great Britain, or by simple registration according to the Dutch model? Is there a need for a review of the entry requirements contained in the licensing system? What requirements do you think are dysfunctional? I am thinking of the requirement of 80% coverage in the three regions after five years, the requirement of biweekly distribution after two years, the requirement of a uniform rate for the whole territory or other? Which one would you like to revisit? This is also closely linked to the demand for a universal service in the postal market. The same study shows that the Belgian implementation of universal postal service in the postal market is excessive in the European perspective. In Belgium it is said that everything relating to the postal market is a universal service. In other Western European countries, this is being dealt with much more restrictively. There is a great deal further to liberalisation. There is much less in the concept of universal service. The nature of employment is also a criterion that is unique in our country. No other country studied contains rules on the nature of employment for universal service. This means that competition is made very difficult. The price for consumers and businesses is quite high. Moreover, it also leads to much higher costs for the State Treasury. Our society has no interest in giving the greatest effect to universal service in the postal market in Europe, as this is paid for by the State Treasury. Are you prepared to exclude certain postal services from universal service in the postal market? What services do you think do not belong there? Are you prepared to remove the formal requirements on employment as a determining criterion for the definition and reimbursement of universal service in the postal market? What kind of content do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u47	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I would first like to make the point that the study was not carried out by the BIPT itself, but by the research office WIK on behalf of the BIPT. All points of the WIK study are currently being examined. I note that the scope of universal service in Belgium is indeed large. However, the scope of the scope of universal service is limited for the European Member States. This was imposed by the European Commission's Postal Directive. An analysis is currently under way which examines the impact of the possible deletion of certain universal service services. With regard to the employment requirement, Article 148i of the Postal Act does not impose an employment requirement for the universal service, but imposes a requirement for all those who carry out activities of collection, sorting or distribution of mail. Moreover, this requirement for employment is independent of any remuneration for the universal service. The WIK study indicates that there are still a number of regulatory barriers to a smooth entry into the Belgian postal market. As regards licensing conditions in particular, we can see that they are also questioned by the European Commission in the context of an infringement procedure against the Belgian State because they would not be necessary. In any case, the WIK study also shows that some European postal operators refer to e-replacement as their strongest competitor, even more than competition from other operators. Due to decreasing volumes, the market is thus losing attraction for investors, so that, according to the WIK study, we can expect that the chances of a new accession will be rather low. We are currently analysing WIK's study and recommendations in order to draw our own conclusions and a first legislative proposal is expected in autumn 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I look forward to that bill in the autumn. I do wonder whether this will avoid the European Commission's infringement procedure. Are there any negotiations in this area? Would you once again, as in the case of the independence of BIPT, try to reverse the infringement procedure by acting proactively yourself? It seems essential to me that we offer bpost opportunities to compete on an equal footing with other private operators throughout the market. It is not just about universal service but also about parcel service, the growth market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u49	Mr President, Minister, universal telecommunications services give every citizen the right to have a telephone line and a functional Internet connection at a fixed location. Since 2013, Belgacom, now Proximus, has not been designated to assume this obligation. That is why I have some simple questions. Firstly, the amended telecoms law refers to a tendering procedure for this element. What steps have already been taken in this respect? Secondly, how many applications have been registered for such a connection since the removal of the obligation at Belgacom? How many complaints were received from citizens or others about the lack of regulation regarding the geographical aspect of this universal service? Thirdly, what conclusions do you draw from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u50	Mr President, on 30 May 2014, the geographical component was further clarified through three royal decisions, on the financial conditions, the quality of service and the speed of a megabit per second for functional internet access. Before launching a tender project, a project was launched by BIPT to map operators' offers by July 2015. If the mapping project shows that the fixed geographical component of the universal service is not adequately strengthened in one or more defined geographical areas, an appropriate solution will be sought for these areas together with the sector. The BIPT knows of five complaints about poor internet access. These are further investigated by the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I am very curious about these five complaints, and I do believe that it is a better solution to look together with the sector at a way of resolving them, rather than setting up a large and complex procurement procedure. We have to go point by point to call for tenders. In one region it will be cheaper for the cable operator to make that connection while at another point it will be cheaper for the telephone operator, the buyer operator, and in other places wireless may be a much better solution. We really cannot work with a general national tender anymore. I hope that's where we're going. It would be awesome to leave that in the law in that way. You just launched Digital Belgium. A country that profils itself as progressive but has to fall back on legal guarantees to guarantee a connection of ocharm a megabit per second, that is not possible. The market is sufficiently developed in our country, we are the most connected country, the most wired country. Such a law seriously undermines our image.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u52	Mr Minister, with increasingly stringent insulation standards and increasing density, the coverage of mobile networks in new buildings, specifically in office buildings, is increasingly inadequate. In office buildings are many companies that provide their staff with a mobile phone and mobile subscription. They solve this by asking the operator with whom they have closed the mobile subscription to install a repeater or femtocel in that building. Of course, this is only a solution for those who are customers with that involved operator. For visitors who are customers with another operator, this is not a solution. Moreover, that solution impedes competition in the business market. After all, when a company wishes to choose a new operator and to play operators against each other, as should be the case in a well-functioning competitive market, the old operator obviously has a competitive advantage, since investments for network coverage have already taken place that a new operator would have to do. We are not talking about residential buildings, where the same problem arises, but where the element of competition plays less. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, to what extent are you familiar with that problem? What steps have already been taken? Secondly, what legal and practical obstacles are there to achieving, for example on spectrum allocation, a kind of universal femtocell or universal repeater that can be used by the various operators? We could say, when a repeater is placed in a building, that it should be useful for all operators. Thirdly, what legal and other possibilities are there to encourage indoor coverage for the different operators and, for example, to provide infrastructure sharing? Today we already legally provide mast-sharing and standards have been imposed for cable gutters, for example. What do we do with the reinforcement of the wireless network within buildings? Fourthly, has that problem already been discussed with the Regions, for example on the building codex? Do you see any possibility of that? Fifthly, do you or the BIPT have any idea of the extent to which this problem also arises abroad and of the measures taken abroad to safeguard competition in the business market in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u53	The BIPT has received some questions from architects who, in some cases, mainly in new construction, wish to provide preventive cover for all operators. Each operator uses its own frequency, so each femtocell is adapted to a specific operator, although there are indeed new femtocells on the market today, which can host multiple operators on one cell. At present, there is no provision in the law regarding indoor coverage. No contacts have yet been established with the regions on this issue. We do not have any benchmark to show how this is being handled abroad. In the future, Wi-Fi could offer a solution. Mobile operators and smartphone makers are working on technical solutions where calls can also be made via Wi-Fi networks and where there is the same system of migration as between Wi-Fi and classic networks when leaving a building.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u54	I am surprised that no comparison has yet been made with other countries and that no contact has been made with the Regions. I thought the BIPT would look into questions from architects. The demand of architects to provide cover for all operators is evident, because there are technical possibilities for femtocells. We need to find ways in which, when using femtocells in buildings, we need to introduce an obligation to be universal femtocells, something like infrastructure sharing. We need to investigate how we can get all operators to work together in order to achieve cost sharing. That would be better for all of us. Wi-Fi can be a solution, but that is of course to call yourself and not to be called. That is usually the problem, especially when it comes to residential buildings because there is usually no general Wi-Fi coverage available. So there are still steps to be taken by the BIPT or the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u55	That's a good suggestion. We will use the BIPT to see how this can be accelerated. It is an opportunity to reduce the number of physical cells. The operators seem to me to be asking for something like this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u56	Thank you for that voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u57	Minister, at the Beltug event of 17 March, you stated that you want to create a level playing field between the classic operators and the over-the-top players, not by increasing regulation and legal obligations for the OTT players but by reducing those for the classic operators. You have, of course, aroused my curiosity. I would therefore like to ask you what obligations you are considering and what the timetable is for this. What obligations for the classic operators do you want to reduce?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u58	The OTT players are often active worldwide. The problem therefore requires a coherent and European approach. For example, the European Commission has launched the process of revising the European framework regulation, called framework review. Particular attention will be paid to the future approach of OTT players to create a level playing field. On the one hand, the intention is to reduce obligations for existing operators, on the other hand, a number of new obligations are likely to be imposed on the OTT players, especially in the field of consumer protection and legal aspects. I know you asked for more details, but those things are in full effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u59	Whoever says a must say b, Minister. If you give people hope and put some things first, it would be interesting to tell them a little bit more about what you were thinking. It is strange that in the first part of your answer you focus on the additional approach of OTT players. It is necessary, of course, and I do not contradict you in that regard, but if you say that you want to reduce the rules for the classic operators first, I would have liked to know a little more about that before you say that you will do something, without knowing in what direction. Of course, I have a suggestion: it starts with data retention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u60	Mr President, Minister, you are undoubtedly aware of the phenomenon. Almost every website now asks for permission to ask for a cookie on the user's PC, in one case, even more irritating and intrusive than in the other. This is the case of a European directive which, for example, has been transposed very strictly in the Netherlands and the UK and which requires explicit consent. With us, the rules are less clear. I have asked Mr Vande Lanotte about this in the past, but he was unable to clarify it. He then stated that he was still thinking about this. Meanwhile, many websites with such a banner choose the sure thing for the uncertain. In the Netherlands we are going a step further today. Last week, the Authority Consumer & Market, the counterpart of the BIPT with us, approached a series of websites stating that such an explicit request for permission to place a cookie is mandatory. If you do not ask for that explicit permission, you are in violation of the cookie law. This would also be the case if you do not place cookies yourself, but this is done by third parties such as Google, Facebook and ad-trackers such as Rubicon and Adsense. If one places a like-button for Facebook on his website, Facebook also places a tracking cookie there. As a website owner, you should ask for permission. According to ACM, this should be explicitly requested by means of a pop-up, if not, a fine of up to EUR 450 000 can be imposed. Personally, I find this very far-reaching because it is not technology-neutral. Tracking is happening much more today through finger printing techniques, while cookies have much more useful features such as saving the password and the like. The usability of a website also decreases with those disturbing banners that are not even read by most users and simply clicked away. If you do not want cookies, use a browser function for this purpose. Each browser provides possibilities that go even beyond just refusing cookies. Of course, everyone must be able to understand the personal data that is being kept and be able to prevent this. However, a default banner cannot fix this. The design of privacy ordering offers better opportunities in this area. So I have a few questions. First of all, is an explicit request for the placing of cookies in this country today required? Does this also apply to third party cookies such as the ad-trackers? Is this about an explicit consent or a relation question? In other words, if one does not explicitly click yes, but simply clicks away, is this enough? Secondly, should there be such an obligation, will this be checked? If yes, by the BIPT or the privacy committee? How much are the fines? Thirdly, in what way was an obligation or an explicit non-obligatory of such banners announced to us to the public, and in particular to the web companies? If there is any obligation, I believe that this should also be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u61	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, the use of cookies is governed by Article 129 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications. The BIPT may impose sanctions, including a fine in case of infringement, and this concerns the standard fines of the BIPT. On 4 February 2015, the Belgian Privacy Committee recommended that the consent requested by the telecoms Act be aligned with the authorisation provided for in the Law of 8 December 1992 on the Protection of Privacy. Such authorisation must be unambiguous and specific. For further questions, please refer to my colleague Bart Tommelein, who is competent in matters of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u62	Mr Minister, indeed, your colleague Bart Tommelein is responsible for privacy, but my question overlaps with different powers. You yourself say that several of these matters are governed by the law on electronic communications, which you are responsible for. In my opinion, it is important to adopt a generic approach to a number of issues specific to telecommunications. In this respect, we must not approach telecoms differently from other sectors. I think we should act logically by looking at the practice at the surfer. If we are to legislate on this, it must have real added value, and I think that is sometimes forgotten a little too often.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u63	Minister, in your digital plan, you are right to focus on digital by default: the first thing to do is to request and process information from the government. For me, that's logic itself. You're not much older than me, but I suppose this is logic for you, too. In this respect, it is even more important to use the data already available to the public authorities internally and to encourage their re-use. This is in line with the government agreement which states that, in consultation with the municipalities, the functioning of the National Register and the Land Registry is optimised and that they supply their data free of charge to all entities within the public authorities of that country. Minister, when will this information be made available free of charge, as provided for in the coalition agreement? How exactly do you intend to achieve that? To what extent have you already consulted the municipalities and other stakeholders within the public authorities on this? What further steps have you taken and planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u64	Mr Dedecker, the data from the National Register and the social security registers are available through the web services of the federal service integrator. The consultation of the National Register is still paying for the time being. The free provision of services must be decided by the Minister for the Interior. The cadastre data are available through the FPS Finance and there is a project in collaboration with Fedict to also make them available through the federal service integrator over the coming months. The services will be available free of charge to the Belgian authorities. Consultation with the municipalities to optimise the functioning of the National Registry and the Land Registry is the competence of the State Secretary for Administrative Simplification. From his role as a service integrator, Fedict can guide the technical implementation of the optimization. In addition, the Crossroads Bank for Enterprise is an important source of government-owned data. Its data quality will be further improved to make it a performant and accessible instrument. To this end, several consultations have already taken place between my cabinet and those of the Ministers for Justice, Economy, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs and the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u65	Minister, it is high time we took steps forward. The fact that access is still paying today, of course, hinders a number of public authorities and municipalities to jump on the wagon. It is often cheaper for them to have a form completed again than to request it from the National Register by the threshold, not only financially but also administratively. Digital by default and the only once law do exist, but the entry into force of that law is systematically postponed. I hope this was the last delay. We must, of course, remove the thresholds, especially with regard to the free story. The National Register, the KBO, the KSZ and the Land Registry are part of the core tasks of a government. This is an essential thing that should not be financed by internal netting. It is a general service provided by the government internally. As Justice is financed by general means, so should it be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-05-54-commissie-ic155x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Geerts' 4058 was postponed.
