ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u1	Minister, I give you the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many reservations this morning about the tax shift, of a general nature and of a very specific nature. I propose that I formulate my answer on three themes. Firstly, I will deal with the general concerns surrounding the tax shift and the place of the tax shift in the government's strategy. Secondly, I will go into a little more detail on a number of points, such as the speculative tax, the caiman tax and the regularisation of tax fraud. Thirdly, on a number of very specific points, I have noted about twenty brief answers, also realizing, as you all do, that we will discuss many of these issues in various discussions and set-ups over the next few days and weeks. So I will start with the tax shift as part of the government's overall strategy. This is an economic, broadly defined strategy of the government, based on two pillars: the reorganisation of public finances and the restoration of competitiveness. The restructuring of public finances was, of course, a compelling imperative, given that we had fallen below the 3% deficit threshold and were, in any case, facing a major problem towards Europe or at least threatening to be. There is also the fact that public debt is now a little above 100%, and we should therefore also limit it in the longer term, in order to guarantee future prosperity. Competitiveness is of course a very large issue for a relatively small and very open economy like the Belgian economy. Paul Krugman zei ooit: “Productivity isn’t everything but almost everything." The same can be said of the Belgian economy: one can do what one wants in various other areas, if one does not restore competitiveness, it is all butter on the gallows. It is absolutely essential to restore competitiveness and business competitiveness if we are to achieve good results in other areas, such as public finances. In all this context, the tax shift is an important element, because through the tax shift and the shift of taxes away from labour, which is the absolute basic principle of the tax shift, the possibility is created to achieve more growth, more economic growth and also more jobs, with a very conscious focus in the tax shift as set up by the government in the two parts, 2 billion and 6 billion, on demand-and-supply reflections. If we reduce the employer's contribution, which is an important part of the tax shift, we will, of course, stimulate demand for labour. It will not only restore competitiveness, but will also have a direct impact on the nature and characteristics of the investment decisions of companies. A commonly heard misunderstanding is that companies do not have their technology to choose. On the contrary, a technology often exists in degrees. The extent to which this technology is more or less combined with labour depends to a large extent on labour costs. Working on the cost of work through, among other things, the employer's contribution contributes to competitiveness. In this way, people are stimulating jobs, but they also have a direct impact.I can't stress that enough about the nature and type of investment decisions that companies make. In this way, it also has an impact on the evolution of employment in the economy. As Minister Kris Peeters said in plenary last week, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank were asked to evaluate the number of jobs generated by this. In this context, I would argue for caution or rather for a good understanding of what that means in an economic environment. Suppose for a moment that there is a sharp decline in economic activity in the course of next year. I refer to the events in China, VW-gate and other international developments, which are not of that nature to be euphoric today. If, with the package of measures in the tax shift, we manage to retain a large number of jobs, which is the firm belief of myself and of the government, it will, of course, be very difficult to calculate in terms of job creation what the tax shift stands for. I think that anyone who is a little well-thinking about this matter agrees that it is, to say the least, a great achievement if a policy in those circumstances gives a strong boost to the maintenance of existing jobs. The government's strategy, in which the tax shift plays an important role, is clearly starting to work. I refer in particular to the analysis of how economic growth was achieved in the second quarter of this year. In the second quarter, we achieved 0.4% growth, which is slightly more than in the euro area. It is true that it is about one quarter. If we analyse what has led to this growth, we can see that the public sector is making a negative contribution. So the reorganisation of the public finances we are implementing has a negative impact on growth. I have told this story over and over again in various meetings, both in committee and in plenary, over and over again over and over again, and I have stressed that this is an inevitable consequence and effect of the reorganisation. What we also note, however, is that, as a result of the evolution of consumer investment and net exports, we are achieving overall growth in the second quarter of the year. So the strategy works. The results are also reflected in the figures, including the evolution of employment. Last week, the House referred to Eurostat figures. However, it was not mentioned that these data are survey data, which vary in a rather uplifting way over time. On the other hand, when we look at, for example, the real employment measured, which has been mapped out by the National Bank of Belgium and the FPS Economy, we see that there is effective employment growth, with good prospects in this area. Another general consideration of the comments made is that there is a misunderstanding about the concept of elasticity. What happens, in fact, if taxes are introduced or increased, with the behaviour of consumers, investors, investors and anyone who is interested? Of course, there's always an impact. Each prize has an impact on people's behavior. Entering or increasing a tax means changing a price. So by definition, a change in behavior occurs. It is not because a tax is increased and at the same time the prospect is that there is an increase in revenue, that the behaviour will not change. It is perfectly conceivable that, starting from a price of 100 at which 20% of taxes are levied, thus making the price 120, in terms of the behaviour one wishes to influence, I am thinking of smoking, drinking or driving a car. For example, the volume consumed decreases to minus ten. Plus twenty minus ten still has a positive effect on revenue. There is therefore no contradiction between the increase in taxes and the pursuit of behavioural change, on the one hand, and the realization of additional revenues, on the other. There's a perfect logic in that. Anyone who says that the government's logic in this area is not working properly ignores the fundamental data that I have just put forward. As far as the government's interventions in the field of personal taxation are concerned, I have heard several comments on the implications of redistribution. Well, our system of personal taxation is characterised by very steep progressivity at relatively low wages. Under median incomes, the progressivity of the tax burden in Belgium is much higher, indeed, Mr Gilkinet, much higher than in countries such as the Netherlands, France and Germany, not exactly tax havens. We have chosen to jump the touchbarma of 30 %. We have chosen tax-free amounts and even extending the application of the 40%, or narrowing the 45%, certainly does not play first and foremost for the highest incomes. This is also reflected in the concrete figures on the impact on the different wage levels. The way in which the reduction in personal income tax is organized therefore gives rise to a very substantial redistributing effect on middle incomes and lower incomes. Questions have also been asked as to the extent to which the government's policy can, in the name of God, create confidence. I can only observe that both business confidence, as measured classically, and consumer confidence yesterday or the day before yesterday is strong and is evolving very positively. In the questions there was also a lot of criticism on the website mijntaxshift.be that I launched yesterday. This instrument makes it possible for everyone, as clearly stated on the website, to assess the impact of the measures taken on the net wage. It is also very clearly stated on the website that other measures are being taken and that there are also tax increases. We have always talked about the impact on net wages. Nowhere has the pretence or appearance been aroused that the instrument allows to evaluate the overall package of government measures taken in this sphere. I note that other websites on which this has been tried clearly fail in their design. That makes perfect sense. Indeed, processing tax increases is almost impossible on an individualized basis. Someone who smokes like the mantle of a fully continuous industrial factory, someone who drinks like a Templar, someone who pops around in his diesel car from morning to evening and in between needs aesthetic surgery, will lose heavily to the government's package. However, I know many other citizens who do not smoke, who drink moderate drinks, who drive a petrol car and for whom aesthetic surgery is not the order of the day. We can laugh at it, but the reality is that, of course, that is the definition of a tax-shift system, a number of taxes are being shifted. We can clearly determine the consequences in individual cases of the interventions in personal taxation. It is impossible to identify on an individualized basis the consequences of the measures taken, because we do not know the consumption behaviour or the general behaviour of the individuals. We have set up a tax shift with, on the one hand, EUR 8 billion in tax cuts and, on the other hand, on the financing side, tax increases, EUR 700 million from the so-called government redesign and EUR 900 million in revenue effects. The payback effects are 900 million euros or 10% of the total tax shift size. In other countries, the average response or size of the payback effects is estimated at 15 to 20 %. I give the example of Austria, where more than 20% of payback effects are calculated on the basis of a tax shift that has very similar characteristics to the tax shift we are carrying out. The additional data from the Federal Planning Office and the study of the National Bank will give us more insight, but given the international context and the international study work in this area we have built in an absolutely conservative payback ratio. So it is absolutely not a question of accusing the government here of Spielerei with the figures or an irresponsible interpretation of the funding. I would also point out that, for example, in relation to the final piece of the previous government's competitiveness pact, 950 million in funding was also in the air and was therefore absolutely not covered. Most of the interventions in the personal income tax have an impact on the region's debt by means of the mechanisms of the sixth state reform. Either we have to come here and tell me that the state reform is designed in such a way that there can no longer be any serious intervention in the field of personal taxation, because virtually every intervention indeed inevitably, given the mechanisms installed, has an impact on the financing of the region's debt. That is not my choice, that is the choice of the state reform that has been made. That being said, when we talk about the impact of federal policy on the regions, it is, of course, also a little narrow-minded to talk only about the financing mechanism through personal taxation. It goes without saying that a number of other government measures, the index jump and the tax shift as such, with an impact on employment and related people, will also have an impact on various aspects of regional development. Last week, in a very clear and well-organised way, we finally started consultations with the regions of the outermost regions. We agreed that a technical working group would first clarify the figures. What do we talk about when we talk about the impact of federal policy on the regions? As I have just indicated, it is not a question of looking at this individually or in isolation at the level of personal taxation. There are several other elements, which will be mapped out in the working group. So much for the more general comments on the context of the tax shift. I now turn to the concrete elements. For starters, there's the speculation tax. As you know, the speculative tax will be 33%. The fee will be levied on the added value realised outside the professional activity and within six months of purchase on listed shares, options and warrants. It is also provided that further derived products that may be subject to the speculative tax can be recorded at KB. People are asking if they can do that through a KB. One of the reasons why we are trying to organise the levy in this way is because we are talking about derivatives, which I shall go into in greater depth later on, is very rapidly evolving. If there's one thing moving fast, it's those derivatives in financial products. So, I believe, we need a mechanism that will allow us to quickly adjust definitions in the case of evolving market data. A working group has been set up from different Cabinets and is now examining the matter further. The capital gains resulting from short-term transactions on these products will also be subject to the speculative tax if, as already indicated, they are realised within six months. The six-month retention period will be calculated on the basis of the LIFO method, the method whereby, in the case of spread purchase, the last products purchased will always be taken into account for the possible application of the speculative tax. If the FIFO method is applied, there is a risk that the speculation tax will also apply to capital gains built up over a longer period of time, which is obviously not the intention. Recurrent budgetary revenue is estimated at 34 million. The assessment of the tax base is based on estimates of the return and composition of individual financial instruments. It should therefore be noted that derivatives have not been taken into account by the Finance FPS in these calculations. On the basis of financial accounts published by NBB.stat, individuals own approximately €55 billion in publicly traded shares. Another very important point is that we are only talking about the items listed on the stock exchange for the simple reason that we need a price to be able to judge the value purchased and sold. A representative stock exchange index is used to estimate the magnitude of capital gains. It is then based on the gains and losses made in recent years, which give an indication of the order of magnitude for the future. The FPS Finance was therefore based solely on stock transactions, not derivatives transactions. In addition to the speculative tax, there is of course the caiman tax. I repeat what I said to Mr Laaouej last week. There has been a substantial increase in the estimate of potential revenue from the application of the Cayman Tax due to three factors. The first figure put on the table by the FPS Finances was based on an estimate of which Switzerland, Luxembourg and the United States were not included. These three important players were excluded from the FPS Finance calculations. Secondly, given developments within the OECD, taxation opportunities are more complex. Thirdly, the combination of the permanent regulation that the government is considering, or that it has decided, and the Cayman tax must inevitably give us a little more income as well. The regularisation of course fits in with the move towards greater transparency, where Belgium subscribes, in order to make tax avoidance much more difficult. I am thinking of BEPS from the OECD and related initiatives. The permanent regularisation which the government intends to introduce from 1 January 2016 has a number of important features that distinguish it from the previous ones. Fines are higher. In 2016, the amount of the fine on the old-age capital is 36% and from 2017 onwards, the amount of the fine will rise by 1% each year to 40% by 2020. The same applies to the rates of unpaid income which are not subject to statute of limitations and to social security contributions. They also run up every year. Regularisation is therefore more stringent than before and the fines are gradually increasing. From now on, there will be only one system. This means that there is no longer any distinction between ordinary and serious tax fraud. It's tax fraud or not. The burden of proof and the risk of proof of the degree of contagion of the capital shall lie with the declarant. If he or she fails in the burden of proof, the capital is considered to be completely contaminated. Another feature in the regularisation period is that one can only report once. That means there's one report tout court. The declaration should also be spontaneous. There can be no involvement in any ongoing administrative or criminal investigation. The government has decided to allow the introduction of the health tax to take place in two stages. The first phase is the increase in excise duties on soft drinks and some other light drinks. A second step is further refinement and will be implemented in the course of June and July 2016 on the basis of a comprehensive plan to be developed by the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. The choice was made for soft drinks because studies show that I am based on what Minister De Block communicates about this that soft drinks of course do not contribute to a healthy diet. The increase in excise duty applies to all soft drinks, i.e. to ordinary soft drinks which are very sugary, as well as to light products, which contain sweeteners that do not suppress the urge for sugar syrup, as it is called. The practical development of the whole process is, as indicated, the responsibility of the minister concerned. The question was explicitly asked to respect the budgetary path that has now been moved forward. As far as fraud is concerned, I have the following comments. A question was asked about the size of the amounts proposed by the government. As you know, there has been a substantial increase in the number of staff, especially in the BBI. Roughly, we go there from 500 to 600 people, which means an increase of 20%. This must therefore allow for a rapid and substantial improvement in data mining, Internet fraud and so on in the coming period in the fight against tax fraud and hence in the associated revenues. Of course, we are also working fully on the anti-fraud plan in the Finance Office at the moment. The additional revenue that we hope to be able to recover from this is not on the table for 2017. As far as this year and next year is concerned, it is mainly about the larger pay-off of the additional staff in these parts of the FPS Finance. I now turn specifically to the punctual elements that have just been addressed. The problem of construction has been discussed. Today, the construction sector faces a sharp challenge of competition from Polish and other Eastern European companies in particular. The construction sector has raised a very explicit question as to whether a reduction in hourly wage costs of EUR 6 could be applied. The sector has put forward proposals on this subject for what I could call a "building-specific tax shift'. The commitment within the government is to consult the construction sector as soon as possible, on the basis of the difficult competitive position to be established in practice for Belgian construction companies, in order to identify what can be done in the short and medium term to improve that competitiveness. If the agreed measures on the reduction of employers' contributions can create or create room for manoeuvre, they could preferably be used for the construction sector. At least that is the opinion within the government at the moment. With regard to the withholding tax, the question has been asked whether all this is done in one movement or whether the increase to 27% and the deletion of the exemptions are phased out. The answer to that is brief and clear. The whole movement will be done at once, both the increase to 27 % of savings books not for savings books, for the sake of clarity and the deletion of a number of exemptions on withholding tax. Questions were also asked about the investment deduction of 8%. This deduction is independent of the increased deduction for digital investments. That's two different things. Therefore, the percentage of the deduction for digital investments does not change. As regards the costs of setting up a webshop, part of one of the questions asked, all new investments in tangible and intangible assets are eligible for the deduction of 8%. In principle, therefore, the creation of a webshop. A question has also been asked about the impact of the tax shift measure on the index. I believe that the index and everything that has to do with it is rather the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. As far as the new diamond system is concerned, we are indeed still talking to Europe. At the moment, there is no conclusion on this. We will communicate it immediately when we have an answer. With regard to VAT in schools, questions have also been asked. Will the reduction be acceptable to Europe or not? The government's decision-making is clear. We are going to pass this on to the Council of State and see what comments the Council of State will make on our draft. We shall, of course, take that into account. Is the tax shift a missed opportunity in terms of tax simplification? This is an important question. I believe that I am not going to abuse the truth when I say that there was a lot of scepticism, some six months ago, about whether this government could realize the tax shift. Since a week or two everyone has to determine whether they agree with the content or not that the tax shift is there. In this respect, the government has done what it had planned, and certainly, in some cases, has brought a pleasant surprise. The discussion about the tax shift has certainly been a difficult discussion. It was a very in-depth discussion. Everyone was very well aware of the scope of a number of decisions. If we had also had to add a discussion on tax simplification, we certainly would not have been here today with a complete picture of the tax shift. As Minister of Finance, tax simplification is indeed a priority for me. I dare refer to a number of things that we have already achieved, in particular in the area of VAT. We have made the billing scheme a lot easier. We have raised the turnover ceiling, which has freed many smaller companies from a number of serious administrative obligations. We are working hard to change and, above all, to simplify the system of fines. I would also like to refer here to the whole of the customs regulation, in which we have introduced important simplifications in the formalities, without losing control. The redesign of the government has also been discussed. The background to the redesign is that the implementation of linear savings within the government clearly has its limits. This does not mean that the government cannot achieve better functioning. It is not because linear savings become more difficult, that more punctual interventions in a number of processes cannot improve the efficiency of government operation. This redesign is aimed at: looking at a number of processes, e.g. the procurement process within public administrations, in order to achieve efficiency gains through rationalisation. That competence belongs to Mr Vandeput, and it is being worked on at the moment. Finally, the subject of commercial vehicles has been put on the table in an almost inevitable manner. Of course, this has arisen from the fact that tax pressures in all areas are increasing very high. This can therefore only be discussed to the extent that further efforts can be made to reduce tax burdens, both for employers and for employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u3	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u4	Mr President, the reply will be shared by my colleague Ahmed Laaouej and myself. Indeed, since this morning we have been talking about a tax shift, but it must be noted that it has been difficult to find it in this term tax shift. We could have talked about tax reform rather than a shift tax itself. In the answer you provided, we understood what you meant by tax shift. There is indeed a shift in taxes, a reduction in taxation on labour, but this shift in taxation on consumption is taking place. When we were talking about tax shift, we were thinking about a transfer to capital taxation. We are therefore far from the electoral promises made by certain parties of the majority during the electoral campaign. But we're no longer at a close renunciation! So I say again: our vision of tax shift was really a transfer from labour taxation to capital taxation. We're far from it today, you've just demonstrated it. I have to say that we're still not getting it back. The Prime Minister did not miss boldness when he told Parliament last week that a government had never used capital income to finance a drop in labour tax. We're still laughing. This is also confusing, as we saw this morning, in the CD&V: some were talking about taxation, others were not. This shows incomprehension in this area. Refresh your memory, minister: the previous government has really contributed up to seven billion in capital and fraudsters in just two and a half years of Parliament. Moreover, these seven billion have helped to strengthen both social security, public finances and the pocket wages of citizens. I'll let everyone compare with the figures that have been put forward today. Everything is obviously not to be thrown into this reform, as I prefer to call it. Indeed, it allows a tax reduction and therefore a salary gain. That's the good news. What we are concerned about, however, and there have been few answers in your reply, is what my colleague Ahmed Laaouej mentioned earlier, which is the way it is financed: on the backs of the Regions. It's normal, you said, the reform of the state means that if tax is levied, the regions are affected. Yes, it is. However, a prior dialogue with the Regions might have been more interesting in this area. There are also many unknowns about the reported return effects. You mentioned a few of them. My colleague will talk about it later. At this stage, there is still a significant amount – almost EUR 1.2 billion – that is not funded, with a risk of calling this reform into question, or even additional taxation. We note that you communicate a lot about the positive effects of this so-called tax shift, but insufficiently on its negative effects. We have just seen him, not later than today, with your refusal to discuss here the increase in diesel excise duties. You have preferred to boycott the parliamentary debate again, probably for fear of a counter-advertisement. You are not talking at all about pensioners or social beneficiaries, who will in no way benefit from this tax reform, but who are already experiencing the jump in the index, the rise in the price of electricity and diesel. By this reform, you give with one hand, but take back from the other, since you reduce taxes on labour while increasing taxes on consumption. On the other hand, you have launched a website at great cost to praise your measure. Would it not have been better, minister, to invest in improving your department's IT? This would probably have avoided sending thousands of reminder letters to taxpayers who were in order or speeding up the tax refund expected with great impatience from our fellow citizens to deal with your new taxes. I'd like to ask you a supplementary question. Can you tell us more about the other sites you will soon be posting: monsautdindex.be, monpleinnediesel.be, matvasurleelectricite.be or mataxesoda.be? Another embarrassing aspect of your reform is its temporality. Indeed, the gain is spread throughout the legislature while you have already borne the cost. I am, of course, thinking about index jumps and VAT on electricity. My colleague Ahmed Laaouej asked you a moment ago: can you quickly draw up a table with, on the one hand, the dates of entry into force of the new taxes and, on the other hand, the dates of the tax reductions announced? As far as capital is concerned, you have talked about the speculation tax, but we would have liked more details in this regard. I repeat, in the PS, we have also tabled texts introducing a reasonable taxation of capital, which would affect only 1% of the richest in our country. As has already been mentioned in this House, such a measure would, according to an estimate by the Court of Auditors, make it possible to raise more than two billion per year. Minister, vote on this and you will be able to remove any increase in consumer taxes! I can reassure you, the richest who would pay that tax should not change their consumption. As far as the fight against tax fraud is concerned, you have remained sibyllin. We would have liked to hear more about your ambitions. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this in our debate on your policy note. Finally, you mentioned the creation of jobs and it was felt that you were already looking for excuses to say that perhaps we are not going to create as many jobs as we announced. What will be the monitoring that you will put in place to actually get out of the publicity effects and actually show the population the number of jobs created?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u5	Mr President, I have three points: firstly, on the seriousness of the exercise; secondly, on the redistributive nature of the exercise; and thirdly, on the orientation of the measures. Minister, with regard to the seriousness of the exercise, you held a first press conference on 20 July, more than three months ago, to present the tax shift. We are only discussing this today. I imagined, since you had time to prepare this speech, that you were going to give us specific documents, in a solid presentation. Earlier, I defined what a shift tax was, that is, a zero-sum tax slip. Mr. President insisted strongly on this on his blog a few months ago. I expected to see this table with tax expenditure on the one hand, new resources on the other, and a sum equal to zero in relation to which we could, beyond the number of jobs created, monitor the evolution of the fiscal year over time and ensure that there was no slippage. Our concern is that the tax expenditures associated with the measures you have taken are higher than you have estimated and that, on the other hand, the compensatory revenues you are announcing are lower, which would create a new deficit - while you have placed a great deal of emphasis on the consolidation of public finances - and would lead to new measures. With respect to the new tax revenues you are announcing, you explained how you re-evaluated the Cayman tax revenues. While you have been able to account for the three states that you lacked in the valuation of Belgian assets abroad, all the tax professionals explain publicly (in the daily press, the specialized press) how we can escape this tax tomorrow, in the same way that we can avoid the tax on speculation so the principles that you elaborate are easy to circumvent, in any case with regard to new revenues. You listened to us, took notes. But you don't provide us with any reliable written elements, any paintings. I therefore believe that your presentation is not serious given its potential impact on public finances. You know that our group has asked, since the establishment of this government (and again during the debate last Tuesday), that the government provide us with tables. I must repeat here how disappointing it was at the end of the Prime Minister's speech. This table does not allow us parliamentarians to measure the seriousness of the exercise, to carry out a monitoring and, if necessary, to demand the necessary corrective measures. As far as the redistributive aspect of the exercise is concerned, I would like to return to a question to which you have not answered. What about people who do not pay taxes today? While you were talking, a friend, a disabled person living on allowances informed me that the minister's software to calculate the tax shift only accepted a minimum wage of 1,500 euros gross and that he knew many people who did not have that amount at the end of the month. The redistribution exercise is really problematic since you have not planned – and this has been pointed out in the interventions – the case of people who today do not earn enough to pay taxes but who nevertheless have a lot of difficulty in closing their monthly ends. These are workers with precarious status, low wages, who combine temporary workers, people who want to work but do not obtain an indefinite contract and pensioners. These people will not benefit from this redistribution, which would be useful not only for them to live in dignity but also for the economy, as it is known that these incomes are immediately spent to meet the primary needs of these people. It therefore makes our economy work. In terms of redistribution, the exercise is not successful, especially since you are silent in all languages what I stressed in my speech. These are the other savings measures you took before this fiscal year in the social security system, the additional unemployment benefits for part-time workers, the tax benefits for pensioners, the abolition of the integration allowances for young people. All these people are going to be hard hit and rather than having more means to live, as you try to make them believe, they will have much less. What is more, in terms of redistribution, if you question the progressivity of the tax – I agree with you that in Belgium, too quickly you pay a lot of taxes – this is completely countervailable in the context of the system of personal tax by increasing the number of instalments rather than reducing it. We come to a flat tax that is not interesting in terms of redistribution. In terms of redistribution, if you try to make some members of your government believe that we are here in something redistributive that will help those who need it the most, we are not there! Finally, with regard to the direction of the measures, you started by telling us that if business income were to be improved, there would be a bit of automatic investment and employment. This is Schmidt's theorem: today's profits are the investments of tomorrow and the jobs of the day. I know that you are a particularly classical economist, but recent history has shown that this is not working at all today. The job creation guarantees are not there, simply because the measures you have taken are not sufficiently oriented and conditioned. As an environmentalist, I cannot be satisfied with your response to the change in the company car financing system. If you had had the courage to review this system by leaving the company cars to those who really need them and by giving a real salary to those who currently have to accept a company car, you would have taken a much more favourable measure for public health and the environment, but also economically positive. Indeed, as the FEB itself says, congestion on our roads has a negative impact on the functioning of our economy. Every day, minutes and hours are lost by workers because of traffic jams. If a number of cars were extracted from traffic and adequate public transport was offered, our economic system would work much better. You talk about competitiveness but it also implies the fluidity of our mobility systems. You come with a very classic approach that has shown its limits. We do not believe in the quality of your measurements, especially since the information comes to us only by snippets. It's not serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my reply consists of three points. Firstly, with regard to the argument of the opposition, of PS and Ecolo-Green, in relation to the redistribution aspects of this tax shift, I have four arguments why I consider the agreement to be socially justified. The first argument is that the money that goes to the people, EUR 2.5 billion, which is not a small amount, mainly goes to the low wages. The table distributed shows that it is not even in relative figures for minimum wages in absolute euro area debt securities, as is customary in politics. A person earning EUR 1 500 as a minimum wage will receive EUR 146 per month by 2020; someone earning EUR 5 500 will receive EUR 74. I would almost say that it is a centre-left agreement in the area of redistribution. I don't want to embarrass anyone, but I have the impression that the reduction in charges at that point is being pushed to the left. The second argument is that important aspects of the basket are compensated in the index. I am thinking of the increase from 6% to 21%, which you all consider to be the plummeting of the employees. However, this measure is offset by employers by the mechanism of the index. That's my second argument. I asked the Minister: are there any such aspects? He referred me to him. No problem. I'll ask another minister. However, I am quite sure that there are still such aspects, in addition to the increase in VAT, that will enter the index and buffer workers for the possible negative elements of the tax shift in that area. The third argument is that in the tables on the tax shift that we received in July, the political confirmation is that the welfare envelope is increasing. That was already the case in the past. That increase has gone through all the way, until the end of the legislature. You say that you had an agreement, including family allowances, before the state reform and so on; you think that this is something that needs to be looked at completely differently. I'm just looking at the numbers soberly. I see that this government will invest EUR 950 million in addition. It used to be 650 million euros. So I see once again a centre-right government that integrates a very social aspect into the tax shift. That's my third argument. I personally consider the fourth argument to be the most important: the tax shift creates a strong economy. A strong economy ensures that social security can be maintained and expanded in the future. One cannot have strong social security in a weak economy. That is the main argument of this tax shift, as the Minister has rightly said. He gives oxygen to the companies, which ensure that social security can be maintained. These are four arguments why I call this agreement a social agreement. For me, it doesn't matter whether or not a capital gain tax is included. Overall, it's a social agreement. In some circles, people are narrowing about the redesign. One wonders whether it will succeed. I think it should certainly be possible to raise EUR 750 million. The end of the linear savings that I have certainly participated in has been achieved. Through process analysis one can do a lot and make the government more efficient. I do not think this is at the expense of services, as one colleague claims. On the contrary, if more processes are computerized, services will also be further developed. It is not really service-minded if you have to say on the phone that you will not find the paper file and that you will call back within two days. It is much more service-minded if one can answer directly via call centres. I support that. I think there is actually more to it than the EUR 750 million proposed. The only question is: will or can one do it? It has to be possible. Thirdly, will people have to make up now or not? I calculated that back-of-the-envelope. If you fill one hundred and fifty times a year with diesel and five thousand Coke cans, five hundred bottles of wine and ten thousand cans of beer, then you still have 1000 euros left on the tax shift if you start working with two. That's not a problem for our electoral audience. I don't think anyone from CD&V is gonna complain about the tax shift. Of course, I cannot speak for all parties. Everyone has to decide that for themselves, but I don't think CD&V will get in trouble. The fourth point concerns the budgetary aspect. I did not receive an answer from the Minister either. I suspect the monitoring committee is sending a signal. I will not go into that today, given the timing. I have another question, but I can also put it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u7	Minister, I'm going to react to what you didn't say because we didn't learn much! Tax escalation questions were not answered. The same applies to the impact of changes in the tax brackets of the personal tax scale (the 30 or 45 % instalments). My questions were specific. I was astonished by the conclusions that you have reached by saying that it will be the poorest who will benefit from such changes in the tax scales. I don't come to the same conclusions as you. With regard to the relationship with your predecessor's tax reform project, which has never been successful and which benefited the richest, I have not received an answer either. You tell us what everyone admits: in Belgium, we are too quickly taxed on natural persons. How can we do it then? The tax escalation curve needs to be changed. It is not by removing tax brackets that we will manage to change this curve but, on the contrary, by spreading the curve better: rather than reducing the number of slices, we would have to increase it and start more slowly to arrive a little higher in order to have a better curve of progressivity. I think you're doing the opposite when you get to the idea of flat tax. No specific numerical data were provided in your response. You claim that on your website lying, you can calculate the winnings, but that it is not possible to calculate the losses. I take note, but other organizations have done calculations that you don't do. At the macroeconomic level, there is no clear view of all the measures, their real costs and the timetable for their implementation. When will the measures be applied? Can you guarantee that, from a budgetary point of view, this will be sustainable over the next few years? We did not receive answers to these questions. Nor did you provide us with the figures for the so-called job creation. In this matter, you have done great! Indeed, you said that it was not possible to calculate the number of jobs that will be created. You added that, if one were to find, in a few months or years, that an increase in employment was not registered, it should not be concluded that the tax shift did not have a positive effect; it would have to be concluded that the employment is a little less than it would have been if the said tax shift had not been applied. In other words, if tomorrow there are 100,000 fewer jobs in Belgium, you will tell us that it is happy that the tax shift has been set up, otherwise we would have had 200,000 fewer jobs. Admit that the situation is quite exceptional! With this kind of promise, you'll always get away with it! It doesn't cost you much! You don't commit too much! That's the least we can say! This is a bit of the logic that we shave for free! You remind me of the formula used by Charles Michel in plenary session, according to which "soon, wage disability will be only a bad memory of the past". It's kind of extraordinary! It also reminds me of what Wilfried Martens said in the 1980s: "I see the end of the tunnel." These years correspond to the beginning of the wave that you admire so much, namely the wave of neoliberalism. Today, we are still trying not to drown in this wave and we are still in the tunnel, contrary to what Wilfried Martens thought. Workers still drink the cup, unlike the bosses, since, as I have already said, the Top 1000 companies in Belgium distribute 70% of the profits in the form of dividends. And with the tax and parafiscal gifts you give them, it's going to increase again, I guess. Indeed, we are talking about a gift of two billion euros. Never before has a government given so much to capital in the form of a reduction in employer contributions. Finally, this tax shift should be renamed "dividendes lift".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u8	Minister, I have a number of questions that have not yet been answered. I asked you who was responsible for this speculation tax. I've heard you say on television that you're a cool lover of speculation tax. Wouter Beke said: "That speculative tax isn't even ours." Deductively, this means that it comes from the liberals. There's no other way. The Liberals have made a nice course over the last few months. There's the Turtel tax. We can also call the sugar tax the Maggie tax. Perhaps we should call the speculative tax the Alexander tax. That's three in a row. For a liberal party, this can count. You said, Minister, that there is now a single system for regularisation. Does this mean that the directive, the internal instruction, will lapse? Will it stop from January 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u9	So the instruction stops. You have said that consultation with the regional authorities has begun. You also said that we should look at this more broadly than just this element. There are other things that are in favour of regional authorities. As far as the local authorities are concerned, I asked you about the reduction in the employer's contribution to 25% for the local authorities. I read that the VVSG still doesn't know what's going on. Does this apply to contractual persons employed by local authorities or not? This is almost a matter of principle for me. I would remind you of the argument used when the intercommunals were subject to corporation tax. At that time, it was the creed that private companies should not be allowed to compete with so-called public companies; therefore, they must also pay taxes. I just hope that the opposite does not apply here, namely that private companies do get the reduction in the burden on employers from 33% to 25%, while the staff in public services do not get it. Otherwise there will be unfair competition. I am thinking, for example, of the operation of a swimming pool or the operation of a residential and care centre, which can be done both by private companies and by the government. If we went there to unfair competition, that would be unacceptable. My specific question is therefore whether this also applies to the contractual partners employed by the local authorities. I would like an answer to that today, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u10	Mr. Chairman, we waited three months before we could discuss the tax shift with the minister. He came surrounded by a squad of advisers, technicians and specialists. It was reasonable to expect that additional information would be forthcoming. I have come to express my disappointment because, objectively, on all the subjects we have mentioned, we have obtained answers which I would call very light. In response to our questions about the government's employment objectives, you do not produce any figures, no commitments, and even have a position that limits to giving up, since you say that, in the end, maintaining employment would not be bad. This ambition, which appeared to be the government's standard, seems to be very low, given that there are no targets or commitments, even though it is known that objectives may be dependent on unpredictable elements. Having nothing on this question when it is the alpha and omega of your policy, I find that it does not give much credibility to your approach. The same applies to the question relating to the socio-economic diagnosis of Belgium. How is our economy doing? Your answer is simply in the growth figures for the second quarter of the year. We will meet every three months to comment on the growth figures. This seems to me to be a "short-sighted" approach. [[We are currently at 0.4%, which is a little more than the European average.]] In total, on an annual basis, this is a little less than the European average. Again, it gives the impression of not having a very long-term vision. With regard to the return effects, there too, one would have hoped to have had calculations or figures, to have a methodology on how you did it. All you told us was that in Austria they were estimated at 15 or 20 % and that, therefore, in Belgium, they were tapped at 10 %. It's a sign of seriousness! Personally, I do not find this very explicit about the calculation methods you used. I imagine there must be other parameters or data in FPS Finance software. I hope that one day or another this Finance Committee will be able to dispose of it. You have referred to the redesign of administrations in a form of confession: you have told us that linear savings have their limits. Mr Bogaert even announced the end of linear savings. If I understood correctly at the beginning of the legislature, the government's remediation strategy was the application of linear measures over time. However, it would have taken less than a year to arrive at a kind of impossibility, of non-possumus, a finding of failure. So, you're gonna do something else. The only example you have given is that of procurement processes within ministerial departments. Is it with a review of the purchasing processes, the implementation of bundled purchases that you will achieve the objectives? That seems light to me! We will have the opportunity, in the context of the review of the 2016 budget and future years, to see to what extent you hold your budgetary objectives with techniques such as this redesign, of which we do not know what it covers. As far as the speculation tax is concerned, if I understood correctly, you told us that, by royal decree, the government would have the possibility of including derivatives within the scope of the tax. Will that be the case or not? Are the debates underway in the majority? Has the question been resolved or is it an assumption that the issue can be removed without having to be resolved? There is still some uncertainty in this regard. I have the impression, however, that we are navigating on sight with regard to a reform involving very large stakes and sums. I am therefore not very reassured by this debate as to the seriousness with which this tax shift was designed and how it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u11	Mr President, I would like to go back to a few points and, first of all, to point out a real problem with regard to the refinancing of your tax reform. I will use the tables distributed by the government in July 2015. It was noted that, according to the monitoring committee, by 2019 there was still a structural effort of 641 million to provide, i.e. complementary means to be found and, on the last line of this table, remediation measures to be defined for 1 billion. Of the tables given in July alone, 1,641 billion dollars had not yet been found to keep up with the trajectory. This is the first funding problem. The second problem of financing is that in addition to this sum of 1.641 billion, which breaks down into 641 million structural efforts to find and 1 billion consolidation measures to be defined, the fact that, from July to October, to ensure the famous 100 euros per month, you have inflated the budget envelope of your tax reform by 1.2 billion. This makes a total of 2.8 billion euros that are still not funded. I understand and appreciate this admission to want to worry about the fiscal trajectory and not to exceed a structural deficit of 3%. As I also recognize the value of the fact that you admit to worrying about the evolution of the debt rate, of the public debt, on the basis of your own tables. I do not add all the concerns that we can explain to the Minister of the Budget on the downsizing of VAT revenues, the downsizing of corporate tax revenues, the fact that we are challenging the return of a number of so-called capital measures. Irrespective of all this, on the basis of your only paintings, you're missing 2.8 billion. You claim to structurally finance a tax reform for natural persons with a budget hole like this by 2019. There's a real problem! Even Mr Reynders would not have dared to introduce such a tax reform! I must draw your attention! Now we're adding something else: the redesign! It seems to me to have heard that we were counting on 700 or 750 million with the so-called redesign measures. It was 500 million; now it is more than 700 million. Is there anyone unreasonably in this government? You will find 700 million by a measure not otherwise defined, apart from the blabla! Who are we laughing at? If we add the 500 million originally planned to the 2.8 billion that I've just talked about, we get to a 3.3 billion hole. What credibility do you want with public opinion? This is not how you will restore household confidence! You sell something you can't afford to defend. This is absolutely not the way to work! I repeat, that makes your tax reform a waste. I would also like to stress the presence of double counting. When the Minister is asked to explain the 900 million return effect, he tells us that there will be, in one way or another, a easing of the conditions for the reduction of VAT on school buildings, for example. However, you have already programmed a supplementary recipe for this reduction in VAT. Avoid double counting! You have recorded this effect as new recipes. So, don't take it back in your explanations! Secondly, I come to the idea that the profiles are so random that we cannot seriously assess the loss of purchasing power resulting from the increase in taxes on consumption. I repeat, six out of ten people drive diesel. Similarly, I would also like to tell you that people have no choice: everyone is lightening up. It is therefore possible to establish standard profiles that cover a large part of the population, when not the entire population. The same applies to index jumps, which affect everyone, both beneficiaries and employees or pensioners. I also note, minister, that stock options are not covered by your speculation tax. That's too bad. The Supreme Council of Finance had estimated that stock options would represent more or less EUR 200 million if they were properly taxed. This is therefore a missed opportunity. You're nodding your head. If they fall within the scope of your measure, you have to tell me, because I thought I understood that they were not targeted. Moreover, you did not answer my question. I also observe that the question of pensioners has been hidden, as if they did not exist. It is true that the other day, Mr. Bacquelaine did not even know that they had already undergone an index jump. I can understand that there is a form of concealment of reality. This can happen when she gets awkward... you can see some kind of self-therapy. You will understand that, for us, pensioners are important. I thought they were also for the CD&V. But, obviously, Mr. Bogaert is obsessed with all the officials. This is not the ACV wing of the CD&V! Since this is a personal fact, it will be able to react. I don't caricature, Mr Bogaert!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u12	Mr Laaouej, I find it strange that you say that the redesign has yet to be completed. It always is. One has to study a little before it comes out, but together we carried out a reduction of EUR 600 million in the civil service, when we were together in the government, in a much shorter period. If someone is telling me that we could save 750 million over an entire legislative period, that might be ambitious, but perhaps not over-ambitious. I believe it is certainly feasible. The question is whether there is enough time to do it. If you have four or five years, it is enough to make process analyses, to improve ICT and to ensure that both services increase and costs go down. I'm 100% convinced it's possible. I am surprised to hear you say that line flou was deployed, because we saved 600 million in two and a half years together when we were in the government. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u13	Mr Bogaert, if you had a road map on which we could discuss it, that would not be a problem. Now, for now, there's nothing on the table! Add a recipe of 500 million or even 750 million euros, without any concrete action, I will have to apologize! You may be a man of faith, but it is the facts that are important to me. We try to put a budget on facts as much as possible, even if they are forecasts. I will now give Mr Reynders a retroactive compliment. In 2001, he brought us a painting with a temporality. He had told us what was going to happen in such and such a year. This made it possible to clarify things: the details of the measures were taken up again, their budgetary cost, etc. It will then be learned that the Planning Office has reassessed the budgetary costs that have been reinjected into the following budgets. By the time you introduce your tax reform, and it's been three months now, it would be good policy to get a similar picture and have in parallel also the increases in consumption taxes. This would clarify your communication and allow us to debate with the facts as presented by the government as a basis for discussion. On the measure of progressivity, it would not be superfluous to have a distribution of the gains of the PPI reform by deciles. In any case, academics will do so, as will most certainly be the case with the FPS Finance study department. If on initiative, you could show us decile by decile what the tax gain is to assess the effect on progressivity, it would not be luxury. We are not necessarily equipped because we do not have all the databases available, but your services have them. This would clarify the effect of your tax reform. However, in order to measure the progressivity of all your measures and the effect on redistribution, we must also, of course, integrate increases in taxes on consumption. This is an important element because you pull progressivity and redistribution down because they are regressive taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u14	Mr President, Minister of Finance, thank you for your answers, although I have not received any answers to a number of questions. However, especially after a period of three months, it is important to make maximum use of the outstanding questions. I'll start with the speculation tax. Do I understand correctly that the list is intended by royal decree, especially in the medium term? Is the complete list closed at government level also the list you are working on in principle? Is the back door through royal decree only for the medium term? So is everything clear in principle for the first phase, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u15	Mr President, we are currently discussing in a working group the exact alignment of what would end up in the derivatives basket as of 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u16	Is it supposed to put these things in a law or in a royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u17	If it turns out that it cannot be done by royal decision, then we will of course put it in a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u18	That statement is at odds with what you just said. I asked you whether there were any comments to make on this matter by royal decision. You reported that the government will make a royal decision to respond to new developments in the future and to adjust them. It's one thing or another. Either you make the list through legislation and is the royal decision for the future, or you really make the list by royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u19	Mr Calvo, you are twisting my words. I have just indicated that the government is well aware of this. You may also be aware that in the financial market, the whole derivatives business literally changes from day to day. In order to be able to monitor this properly and to continuously clarify what may be assessed, a rapid response function is needed. That is why we want to see whether it is acceptable to make it through a royal decision. The discussion we are now facing will be concluded in the coming days. The assumption of the Royal Decree is maintained in order to determine whether or not we should intervene in the future, in the event of further developments in the financial markets. After all, it is very specific to the problem that any regulation provokes a reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u20	I can follow that argument. I also answered them in my question. Nevertheless, the question remains open...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u21	We shall see how the appropriate bodies respond to the proposal to regulate this by means of a royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u22	Nevertheless, the question or suggestion remains whether to draw up a basic list through legislation and to also provide for the possibility to make adjustments through royal decree, so that at least the initial choice can be made serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u23	We will see how the appropriate bodies respond to the proposal to make this through royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u24	My suggestion is to work as much as possible through legislation. It's combinable. There is no doubt that the matter is being prosecuted. Mr Laaouej takes up a suggestion I made in the first round. As a result of the first phase of the tax shift, we have obtained results per income profile. Now those results are only partially communicated, for a number of profiles. It would be good if we could have a full range of shifts for both the employer's contribution and for the reduction of the burden on the employee's side for those income profiles. I see the Minister nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u25	I don't see any problem in not doing it the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u26	That's the back office of your promo website. I'm guessing you can make that quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u27	You got that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u28	I have another question in a similar atmosphere. Last week Mr Van Rompuy was very reluctant to get up to EUR 2.4 billion in capital taxes. I do not doubt the skills of our committee chairman, but I would very much appreciate it if you could also document in that regard what is covered by the 2.4 billion in capital taxes, and what is not. I have already asked the question: is the fight against fraud included or not? For the summer, that was the case, under the heading "non-work-related income'. Now it wouldn't be, I'm distracting from the government's presentation on that Saturday morning, when the government's good news show was brought to the wide table. I would like that 2.4 billion to be argued and documented. Could you then make that documentation available to the committee? You seem to be making a shy attempt to nod?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u29	You may recall that my opening line was that the tax shift is about shifting the burden away from labour. I adhere to the definition of labour and non-work-related taxes. Then, I believe, we can start with a number of issues about the sex of angels and discuss the question of what is capital and what is another kind of thing. For me, it is a question of shifting part of the burden on labour to non-work-related elements. What then is capital or capital, small capital or large capital, with all due respect: I class that in the discussion about the gender of the angels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u30	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should I regard this as a rebuttal of the Prime Minister, who said here in the Chair that there has never been so much capital taxes, and he launched the 2.4 billion figure? Sorry, but if the Prime Minister says anything, we as an opposition attach value to this and we would like to see it documented. If the Prime Minister says 2.4 billion...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u31	I am simply giving you my view that with this tax shift we are shifting burdens away from work to other elements, non-work-related elements. For me, this tax shift is essentially about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u32	Mr Van Overtveldt, I attach great importance to your personal opinions. I'm always very curious about that. But I repeat, the Prime Minister mentioned 2.4 billion in capital taxes. That figure has to be hardened. With less, I take no peace. In such a fundamental debate, a prime minister cannot make gratuite statements. Mr President, here the Minister is less spontaneous than before in making information available. I maintain my question. The EUR 2.4 billion capital tax must be documented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u33	There is no problem at all: you have the list of what I call 'non-work-related' elements in the financing of the tax shift. I would be happy to have a debate with you, which I believe may take weeks, on the exact nature of some of those components. Is that capital? Is that half capital? Is that three-quarters capital? Isn't that capital at all? That's a very stretchy discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u34	And that is also very legitimate, especially the Prime Minister has made very punitive statements about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u35	Do you agree that the most important thing is that this tax no longer applies to labour?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u36	I agree with the objective of reducing the burden on labour, but I do not want to deal lightly with the question of financing it. It is not because something is not taxed on labour, that it is just, that it has to do with capital and such.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u37	We are already at least in agreement on the fact that we are talking about a shift from work to non-work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u38	That is indeed what we were already at.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u39	That is the essence of the matter for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u40	Here's what I'd like to propose. We still have the discussion of the budget and of the draft laws tabled in connection with the tax shift and to the Council of State. The Court of Auditors will give its opinion both on the budget and on the tax shift. In the end, we will make our verdict here in December. Mr Calvo, you are right to ask about that table and the 2.4 billion. There is also the table given by the Minister in July on non-work-related income, which was about 1.5 billion at the time. We will discuss all these documents in detail in committee. You shouldn't anticipate that either. I do not know whether the final version of the draft tax shift bill has already been approved in the government and sent to the Council of State. If it comes back from the Council of State, the government will make further adjustments and then submit the draft here. The same applies to the budget. The 2016 budget has been deposited with Europe and we will receive the budget documents at the end of October or early November. We will then discuss this budget, the Court of Auditors will give its opinion, and we are going to get it all out. Today, however, it is too early to ask the government for final things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u41	I love this debate too much to regard it as the final day of judgment. Do not be under any illusions, the debate is certainly not exhausted. I am trying to use Christian semantics in the hope of getting you into my story, Mr President. Minister, the only thing I am asking is not anticipation or drive. I'll take over the secretary's semantics. I just want to get a clear overview of the amounts of non-work-related financing of this tax shift. You agree and I thank you for that. We will then discuss in a second phase whether or not that is capital. We will do so in an efficient way. We're getting that information. I would like to make a few more political comments. Mr Deseyn, I hope you have noticed with me that there is a fairly large gap between what you have just said on the floor and what Mr Van Biesen said from his bank when it comes to more capital contributions and a possible added value tax. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u42	You rightly note that Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Van Hees, Mr Laaouej and I are all in other parties. I am glad that this determination is made occasionally. You do not have to merge from me, but the work programme of this majority and the signal that this majority gives to the companies and to the employees must be clear. Mr Deseyn, your group leader, who you mentioned on the floor, has been riding around that question for a whole week. I ask you once again: is it still the ambition of this majority to take steps in this legislature in terms of value added tax and capital contribution? This majority should agree on that. The signal to that effect must be unambiguous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u43	Mr Calvo, a fair tax will always be a nail on which I will keep knocking together with my group. Which will be next week, no one can predict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u44	Mr Calvo, this is not an interrogation of the other parties. You must question the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u45	I shouldn't be as persistent in my interrogation methods as CD&V would provide more clarity. I hope, Mr Deseyn, that your ambition for fair taxation is indeed not satisfied and that you will work together with us to create a social and political majority for a fair capital contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u46	Mr Calvo, the Christian Democratic bride will not commit adultery, not even politically, to have one pleasure with a mistress, if that is an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u47	I could now say something about the past. The temptation is great to talk about great Christian Democrats and their steps in that sphere, but I am not going to do that. There have been biographies published about it. Mr President, you do understand that I am a little confused after Mr Deseyn's intervention. In any case, we will not fail to keep knocking on that nail. It is my conviction that there is so much public support that it will not be taken off the political agenda either. Finally, Minister Van Overtveldt, I would like to talk about your advertising website. Your answer is of such a nature that I have to redraft my suggestion to launch a second website called mineinvoices.be. I think you have dealt with the real problems of many people too laconically. You sketched the picture that one would only feel it if one drives a car a lot, if one is an alcoholic and if one burns his house to pieces. Excuse me, but the problem is more fundamental than that. Let me give you an example of people who are forced to claim benefits today. The financing of the tax shift is to a large extent done by saving a further EUR 1.7 billion in social security. This is about people who are already having a hard time today, who can sometimes only dream of the images you call in your answer. If you want to tell us the full picture, you should also put that part of the tax shift funding on your website or you should launch a second website that will tell you what invoices you make for people who are working and who are having a hard time today, by the way, together with your colleagues across the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u48	Mr Calvo, I must ask you to study the website seriously and to finish the whole story. We have individualized what can be individualized. There are other websites, on which one has tried to individualize with regard to the story of excise duties and so on, but that cannot be done. What we do consistently do on the website is mention those things and clearly state them, so that there is no discussion about leaving out or hiding things. What can be individualised, for example the declaration in the personal tax, we have individualised. The specific data on the website are the data that can be individualised. How to individualize the other data I do want to be a mystery to me. For the rest, given my general example, I agree with the more specific example given by Mr Bogaert on the limits or volumes to be reached in order to achieve certain...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u50	Mr Calvo, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u51	Moreover, the prosperity envelope of 1.2 billion...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u52	I'm being interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u53	Interrupting, that's one of your specialties, Mr Calvo. I would also like to set up a tree with you on Greece in response to your statements last week, but that is for another session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u54	I'm glad you've been triggered. Actually, I haven't said much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u55	That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u56	I will take it as a compliment that Christian democracy is getting a little nervous from our intervention, and rightly so. Consider that an encouragement to stand your back and keep your word. I would like to conclude with a positive note. I have noted, without wishing to put words in your mouth and just trying to sum up, that in your view this is not the tax simplification that you would like and which is necessary. I would like to make use of this openness to make use of the simplification aspect that has not been exhausted in this exercise in the coming months in this committee. That yard is absolutely necessary. Fair, simple taxes are only good for our competitiveness. So let us not give up on this, but on the contrary, let us step up our efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u57	Mr President, I have another specific question on an issue which certainly needs to be clarified in the coming weeks. We are not yet at the end of this debate and I do not know whether there can be a specific answer to that question; otherwise it will be to take it with us. First of all, I will make two points. First of all, I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that it is mainly from the left that the effect of the tax shift concerns only current workers who may be making some progress, although that is also called into question, but that other categories are completely forgotten. Then they'll be watching CD&V as well. Mr Laaouej spoke about pensioners. Well, the tax shift is not just meant to reward those who are now working better. Of course, this is also an important element and starting point for our party. Competitiveness was a very important starting point. You forget, like many others, that the tax shift must also serve to get many others to work and thus to come to many new future workers. In this way, social security is strengthened and permanently fed. So it is not just for the current workers; it is mainly intended to get more people into work and to improve social security in the future and not just for the present generation. This is a tax shift that takes into account solidarity across generations. It is often forgotten to bring this aspect into the debate, especially in certain left-wing corners. Of course we have not forgotten pensioners. Once again, in the context of the tax shift, an increase in the wealth envelope is foreseen, more than during the previous legislature. I deliberately look at one particular angle. So we have not forgotten pensioners in this respect. Mr Deseyn and Mr Vanvelthoven rightly noted that the tax shift will have a certain impact on local authorities, depending on the constellation of local government. We hope that the precise impact will be cleared in the coming weeks. With regard to staff in the care sector in the local authorities, it was noted that there should be no competition between the residential care centres of local authorities and the profit sector. If I understand correctly, the residential care centres of the local authorities are also in the effect of the tax shift and local authorities should also receive the reduction of patronial contributions to residential care centres, i.e. for the white sector, but the tax shift should not apply to their ordinary civil servants. I would like to clarify this, because I hear different sounds about this. The local authorities say that they are confirmed and others say that they are not in it. Hence my request for an explanation on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u58	Mr President, I would like to address three things. The first one, about stock options, you still haven't said anything, Mr. Minister, but your co-worker shook his head by saying they were concerned. I'd like to know if it's yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u59	That's clearly no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u60	Secondly, a general remark about the redesign of the administration. My colleague Bogaert said that the previous government had managed to make huge savings in less time and that, therefore, it would also be possible to do the same under the current government. I tend to think we're working the opposite way. I have had the opportunity to make some budgets at the municipal level, even if the level of power is lower. Generally, before indicating amounts in columns, an attempt is made to anticipate against a specific project. We will have to explain how to draw up a budget with savings of EUR 200 to 750 million without specifying how to do this, knowing that indeed - I repeat your argument - the last government has already made terrible savings in terms of public services. I know that we have this negative generalist image and unfortunately frequent among the population, of the naughty civil servant who does not work. If the less public servants are policemen, judges, prison guards, people who work for the well-being of society, people who are going to look for the money, the tax revenues that make it possible to make a budget, tell me where we are going to look for these savings? Starting from the principle that we're going to make savings of this kind – we're not talking about a few million, but 550 or 700 million, it's pretty serious! Without knowing what we are going to, it seems to me a little imprudent in terms of reflection and budget. Thirdly, I would like to go back to Mr Bogaert's comments on employment. I understand that the priority of this tax shift is job creation. Explain to me what previous government has never had job creation in its priorities. You will tell me that you will not act in the same way, that you will work differently because the socialists are finally outside. But I would like us to separate two types of jobs that will be created. The first ones may indeed be those that will be created through the tax shift. We'll see. But I would appreciate it if the jobs that will be created as a result of the abolition of employers' contributions on the first job were not assimilated to them. Because these have nothing to do with the tax shift. These, contrary to what you say, dear colleague, are going to destructure social security. You're going to promise companies that will hire their first employee not to pay social and employers' taxes, all their lives! This means that social security will be structurally modified. These people will one day or the other retirees without having ever contributed. So you're putting social security in jeopardy! All these jobs will no longer be structurally involved in social security. They should therefore not be taken into account in the calculation of jobs created by the tax shift. I hope there will be a lot of them. That is the goal of all policies. But these jobs are a real danger because they will destructure social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u61	Mr President, I must say that I was shocked by some of the comments. If anyone who uses false methods is a liar, I wonder what one calls the one who says nonsense! I don't really think that this is a bad idea. We've seen all afternoon the difference between exegesis and action. [[It's like when you're four cars at a crossroads.]] There are three who wonder what they're going to do and there's one that's going on! We're passing. We pass because we want a transformation of society. We want to encourage activity. We want to encourage work. We want to develop SMEs, businesses and we want to create an activity that generates jobs. This is our vision! You, in the meantime, do exegesis and ask a lot of questions. Soon, you will ask us for our forecast of election results for the next election! We absolutely want to change the vision of our society and develop the activity. You don't understand. You comment all afternoon calling the minister a liar. That doesn't suit me at all. The lying process is used by a liar. I don't like that. So, please change your vocabulary. Otherwise, I'll change mine too and say that everything you say is very close to the bullshit. Mr President, it is possible to accept a lot but not anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u62	Mr President, if I make the recipe for sour-soft sauce and give the ingredients of sour and not sweet, it is a false recipe for sauce. So that's a lie. That is what the Minister's website proposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u63	Forty years ago there was a political television programme in Flanders called Ieder zijn waarheid. This is the synthesis of this day: there are no liars; everyone has his truth! I would like to conclude the discussion on this point. We will have plenty of time in the next few weeks and months to debate all these different aspects, on the basis of legal texts that we have to deal with and discuss here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn has converted 5527 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u65	Mr President, Minister, we have taken note of the position adopted by the Council on 19 June 2015 in relation to the Commission's proposal on structural measures to improve the resilience of European credit institutions. We are surprised to see that most of the amendments proposed by the Council weaken rather than reinforce the text proposed by the Commission. Indeed, a political body could have been expected to be more proactive than an administrative body. It must be noted that even at this level, banks know how to make themselves heard better than the peoples. Minister, I have a series of specific questions about the Belgian Government's position on the European Council proposal. Firstly, on the scope of application, the Council plans to exempt the large banks present in Europe but which harvest relatively few deposits there. We will call this the Goldman Sachs privilege, since it is this type of institution that will primarily benefit from it. Minister, has the Belgian government supported this kind of privilege? Can you explain to us what justifies this privilege, since these banks are of obvious systemic importance? On the prohibition of own-account trading, the Council does not reject it in the face. However, it has adopted a procedure such that the regulator will probably be unable to enforce it, because it will have to prove that the trading transaction has no purpose other than a short-term profit, which is practically impossible. How is it that the Council did not agree, as is logically provided for in Article 125 of the Belgian Banking Act, that it is up to the bank to show that its operation is not trading on its own account? On the separation of trading activities, the Council has not adopted any threshold whose exceedance results in an immediate obligation on the head of the bank. In fact, it is the European banking authority which is given ex post responsibility for setting the thresholds and, in case of exceeding the thresholds, it is the European Central Bank which will then have to prove that this is not a problem. It's kind of like deciding that a driver can only be punished if the police officer can prove that his speeding is going to create a danger. Why not have adopted the idea of an immediate penalty, as provided for in Belgian banking law? Mr Minister, since this legislation applies only to the largest European banks, a large part of the Belgian banks will a priori remain within the purview of national legislation. We can rejoice in that. It is likely that the banking lobby will, once again, activate itself to demand that we relax the latter and restore the laissez-faire that prevailed before the crisis. Should we expect changes to our legislation, Minister? Will the government respond to this request from the banking lobby or will it give priority to protecting savers and the real economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u66	Mr Crusnière, I will put my answers together in four points. With regard to the exemption of certain large foreign business banks in Europe with few deposits, it is true that the draft regulation provides for exemption from the scope of application. This exemption is based on the principle of proportionality. Indeed, the purpose of the Regulation is to protect depositors from the risks posed to the bank by own-account trading activities. If deposits represent only a very small part of the bank's activities and a fortiori when it comes to private or SME deposits, imposing a separation will hardly be useful. However, the Belgian Government would have preferred a stricter exemption and in particular obtained a reduction in the thresholds, percentages and absolute amounts. He would also have preferred that, in a concrete case, the lowest of the two thresholds should be retained instead of giving these two thresholds an alternative character. Unfortunately, this solution has not been adopted. Secondly, with regard to own-account trading activities, it should be recalled that the draft Regulation defines own-account trading both through the prohibition of own-account trading and also through the list of trading activities that remain allowed. Therefore, what is not allowed is considered to be own-account trading. The draft regulation is clear. The burden of proof lies with the bank concerned, which must demonstrate to the supervisory authority that its activities are authorised trading activities and not trading on its own account. To this end, the bank must provide the supervisory authority with a detailed reporting. Thirdly, for the determination of quantitative thresholds, it is appropriate to recall that the Commission's original proposal did not provide for quantitative thresholds and that their definition remained subject to subsequent adaptation by the Commission of implementing acts. The draft Regulation as amended by the Council entrusts these tasks to the European banking authority, whose mandate is to develop implementing measures which apply to the supervisory authorities of the 28 Member States. This approach ensures greater convergence of supervisory practices across the European Union. Clearly, the draft Regulation determines that speeding is dangerous and asks the competent European authority to determine the threshold at which there is danger. Note that the banking law defines certain thresholds, but is also supplemented by regulatory acts of the Belgian supervisory authority (the regulation of the National Bank of Belgium). Moreover, the thresholds defined in Belgian legislation, laws and regulations are adapted to the Belgian market but are not transferable to all the countries of the European Union in view of the diversity of banking sectors. Fourthly, with regard to the draft regulation dealing mainly with large banks, the national legislator can supplement it with national measures covering banks outside the scope of the draft regulation. However, the national legislator could not introduce measures for these banks which would not be compatible with the measures provided for in the Regulation. In the first analysis, the banking law responds to an approach comparable to that of the draft regulation. It is still too early to consider any necessary adjustments, which, as the European Parliament still has to adopt its own position in relation to the Commission's proposal. Secondly, the Council and Parliament will have to agree on a common text. It is therefore more than likely that changes will be made to the draft regulation as amended by the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u67	Mr Minister, I thank you for your very clear answer, which has the merit of explaining Belgium's position, even if it has not been largely followed. I understand that changes to the banking law are possible, but we must await the final adoption of the text by Europe. We will pay close attention to possible changes in legislation, because for us the priority must remain the protection of savers and the real economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I shall be brief. On 8 July, the European Parliament supported a proposal that obliges large companies to publish annually how much profits they made in each country, how much subsidies they received and how much taxes they paid. Now we must start negotiations with the various Member States. I would like to hear the Belgian Government's position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u69	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, on 8 July the European Parliament adopted a text requiring large companies to report country-by-country. It concerns information such as profits, taxes, staff and subsidies. This was done through amendments to the European Shareholders' Rights Directive. However, this non-fiscal directive does not fall within the competence of the ECOFIN Ministers. Belgium has already committed itself earlier this year within the OECD and within the G20, particularly in the context of the famous BEPS project, to introducing country-by-country reporting for companies with a consolidated turnover of at least EUR 750 million. I will submit a draft law to this effect to Parliament in the course of the coming months. This information will be exchanged automatically with the other OECD and G20 countries where the major companies concerned are located. In this way, the Belgian tax administration will be able to use this information for the purposes of its risk analysis. This information will not be accessible to the public. The OECD model differs from the text on country-by-country reporting adopted by the European Parliament. Before deciding to disclose information from the country-by-country reporting, it is appropriate to await the impact assessment announced by the European Commission in its action plan for a fair and effective corporate tax system in the EU on 17 June 2015. If the proposed timing is met, this impact assessment will be completed in the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u70	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is a bit of a question. We received the opinion of the monitoring committee on July 9, 2015. I therefore have a few specific questions to ask you about this report. There is a decrease in VAT refunds. Could you give us an explanation of the FPS Finances? Since then, it has been known that there has been a fairly large drop in VAT revenues. Would it be possible for you to communicate the evolution of the rate of enrolment over the last 5 years and explain the differences? From the moment we go anyway to have to make a real adjustment to make the correction of the regional additions, why not have directly integrated the revision of the parameters (growth and inflation) used for the calculation of the 2015 allocations to the Communities and Regions? How can we explain the importance of projected growth for regional tax expenditures? The report does not address the tax impact of e-commerce and start-up jobs measures. Would it be possible to tell us what concrete results have been achieved at this stage with regard to these two measures so that we can judge the realism of the government's fiscal year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u72	Mr Laaouej, as regards the development of VAT refunds, various avenues are being examined. The research is under way and we do not yet have firm conclusions. As a matter of caution, the forecast of VAT revenues has been revised downwards. Analysis of the figures shows that a single shift occurs in unstructured VAT refunds. Refunds for the November and December 2014 returns were made in February and March 2015. They relate to VAT revenues that were recorded in 2014. Taking into account what has happened at the level of electricity producers under the impetus of the decline in the VAT rate, there is a single shift in repayments with a negative effect in 2015. In SEC terms, the ratio between the part of enrolment in the year of the financial year and the part in the following year has changed as follows. For the PPI, the report changed from 65/35 for the 2010 tax year to 64/36 in 2014. For corporate tax, the proportion increased from 46/54 in 2010 to 65/35 in 2014. Thirdly, as far as regional additions are concerned, there is no provision in the legislative and regulatory provision for adaptation to changes in economic parameters during the year. Fourthly, the increase in regional tax expenditure is largely attributed to single dwelling items. Indeed, we are still in a phase where incoming taxpayers, who have just taken out a loan, have a higher average deduction than outgoings. Starting with the 2016 tax year, this upward trend will slow down due to the gradual loss of the supplement granted for the first ten years. Finally, it is unfortunately too early to assess the effects of e-commerce measures and start jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u73	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his replies which lead us to suggest that we should be more cautious in the assessment of tax revenue forecasts, in particular with regard to VAT, but also with regard to corporate taxes, especially when it comes to taking account either of advance payments or of recruitment, and not to maximise the share of advance payments, because it is only to postpone the problem to subsequent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u74	Minister, in Belgium excise duties on petroleum products are collected by authorised warehousekeepers when selling products to retailers and they transfer them to the Treasury. It means that fuel dealers who do not have the status of authorised warehousekeeper, more than 95% of fuel dealers, prefinance excise duties for sale to their customers. A bigger problem than pre-financing is the fact that, in the event of a customer's bankruptcy, they cannot recover the excise duty, whereas that is the case for VAT, if a customer does not pay the invoice. This is due to the way in which Article 11 of European Directive 2008/118 is interpreted in Belgium. In the previous legislature, the then Minister replied to a question by Mr De Potter on 20 March 2012 that the second paragraph of the article would not allow the reimbursement of excise duties in the event of bankruptcy. In his reply to a question by Mr Philippe De Backer in the European Parliament in the same year, the then European Commissioner replied that the article should not be interpreted in this way and that the Member States do have a certain freedom in it. In Germany, arrangements have already been made to repay excise duties when the customer goes bankrupt under the Steuerentlastung bei Zahlungsausfall. Minister, are you also considering taking steps to ensure that, in the event of the bankruptcy of their customers, fuel dealers can recover excise duties and energy contributions in addition to VAT? Could you perhaps explain why this is possible in Germany and why it is not possible in Belgium, and under what procedures the Steuerentlastung is applied in Germany?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u75	Mr Wilrycx, unfortunately, the European directive of 16 December 2008 does not allow a favourable response to the demand of the retailers of motor and heating fuels. Neither the European Directive of 27 October 2003 on the restructuring of the Community system for the taxation of energy products and electricity provides for the possibility of a refund of excise duties in the event of bankruptcy. My administration has indeed asked German colleagues for additional information on how they interpret the European Directive of 16 December 2008 and on the procedure and conditions to be followed for the specific rules you have already mentioned Steuerentlastung bei Zahlungsausfall, but they have not yet received an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u76	Mr Minister, it is indeed strange that it can be done in Germany and not in Belgium, but we will wait for the German Government's reply. After all, it is a heavy millstone around the neck of the fuel dealers that they have also lost excise duties in the event of bankruptcy, because excise duties are a very large part of the diesel price. It would therefore be good if they could reduce that business risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 5866 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u78	I note that only Mr Vanvelthoven and Mrs Jadin are present. Mr Vanvelthoven, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u79	Minister, I submitted my question three months ago. It dealt very specifically with the problems of social restaurants. Since this week, the situation has changed a bit. I would like to know how you intend to deal with the matter after the judgment, if you would like to deal with it. That would interest me even more than your answer to my specific question, because I think there is now a bigger problem than this alone. I am also looking at my other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u80	Minister, I will ask my question from a different angle. The Council of State has just voted against the modalities for the introduction of the smart bank. According to him, the rule imposing this fund on establishments selling meals for less than 10% of their turnover is discriminatory. It also considers that it should have been the result of a law rather than a circular from the VAT administration. The result is a situation of great legal uncertainty, as it is likely that, under these conditions, operators in the horeca sector will not want to take the necessary steps to purchase a black box. Minister, how do you think you can correct the current legislation? Are you considering postponing the coming into force of the smart card, scheduled for January 1st? Following the advice of the Council of State, will you meet with representatives of the horeca sector to inform them of the government's plans in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u81	If Mr Vanvelthoven allows it, I will respond specifically to Mrs Jadin's questions and then in more general terms to his question. For Mrs Jadin's two specific questions, it goes without saying that we are going to change what was planned. For those to whom the legislation was not applicable, we will be reasonable in terms of time limits. We are in contact with the various representatives of the horeca sector in order to know their position. More generally, the government received the verdict of the Council of State on 14 October 2015. This destroys the regulation of the current registered cash register system (GKS system). The Council of State objects both to the legal procedure followed and to the principle of equality from the legislation, which, of course, dates back to the previous legislature. As it was no surprise that these elements emerged in the judgment of the Council of State, the necessary legislative initiatives were in the meantime prepared. I will submit a draft to the government in the short term. This must comply with three principles: uniformity, transparency and the prevention of fraud. The draft I will submit to the government is in line with some important sector organisations, such as Horeca Flanders and the Belgian Restaurants Association, and includes a deletion of the 10% rule. This implies that all catering establishments offering meals will be covered by the GKS system in the future. Cafés that only offer so-called cafe snacks are not included. To this end, the draft law will also define the concept of "food" and specify the further timing and conditions for this problem. In principle, there is no change in timing and conditions for catering matters already covered by current legislation. As far as the 'new' are concerned, I have told you that we would be reasonable with regard to the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u82	Mr President, Minister, when a taxable person receives an income tax bill, he usually has a payment period of two months. If no payment is made, the administration sends an automatic warning a few weeks later. I understand that the recipients will then have to send a further letter of formal notice by registered letter, at least one month before the bailiff can issue a payment order. I am talking about the general rule and not about the exceptions provided for in the law. From your answer to my question No. 4 it appears that 80% of the registered letters of formal notice are not removed. I have tabled a legislative proposal to stop sending the notice by registered mail, which could result in a direct savings of 1.2 million. In addition, my bill also saves a lot of work for the recipients. Minister, you know that recovery is a matter of swift action. Two letters of formal notice, after a payment period of two months, seem to me to be a little too much of the good, especially since the registered notice is sent only weeks to sometimes months after the automatic warning is generated, depending on the workload. Tax collectors should be able to play on the ball shorter. That is justified, because the bailiffs have to wait another month after service of the order for payment to proceed with collection. My bill not only saves money, it also raises money. Do you also share the view, Minister, that tax recipients should be able to play a shorter game on the ball? What instructions now apply to recipients regarding the adjudication of defaulters in income taxes? In practice, what period expires between the end of the payment period and the automatically generated notice and between that notice and the registered manual notice? Do you support my proposal that the letter of formal notice should no longer be sent by registered mail, as has already been decided for the Flemish Tax Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u83	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, the recipients determine what recovery or prosecution measures they use to obtain the payment of taxes. However, they must try to recover recent debts quickly. In addition, clear administrative guidelines have been issued for this purpose. In order to enable recovery, they may use information in various databases and listings, thus taking the necessary recovery measures on the basis of relevant and reliable information and data. If the tax has not been paid within the legal period, an administrative notice for immediate payment will automatically be sent. Where the recipient wishes to be ordered to pay by a bailiff, he must send a registered reminder at least one month before service of the order for payment in accordance with the Income Tax Code. This is also imposed by the administration in the event of a simplified third-party tax seizure or by an executive attachment to third parties. The period between the end of the payment period and the automatic notice varies between five and twenty days depending on whether the end of the payment period falls in the first or second half of the month respectively. In practice, the registered reminder is sent just over 21 days after the aforementioned automatic reminder has been sent. The Finance Administration is currently examining whether certain documents now sent by registered mail can be sent as ordinary mail or can be abolished, for example the registered letter referred to in your question, since a reminder has already been sent by ordinary letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There's been a positive evolution. As far as the budget is concerned, I will in any case table this proposal as an amendment. I think we can do that perfectly. If every Member proposes 1.2 million in savings, you have already won 200 million in a year. Secondly, 80% of those registered letters are not collected. That turned out to be an answer to a previous question. Thirdly, the same question has been asked on the Flemish side on the basis of the change that has already been made there. That is no longer the case. There appeared to be no significant differences between the registered or ordinary mailing of these letters. Therefore, if there is no significant difference, these funds should not be spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u85	Mr President, Minister, my question is quite simple. A while ago, there was a lot of discussion about pension funds. A number of pension funds would have been wrong in need. The question was asked for adequate funding. A number of funds required recovery plans. However, it is not very clear to us how many pension funds were involved. In the meantime, were their funds discharged or is there still a liquidity risk? Could you give us some more information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u86	Mrs Becq, seven institutions currently have a recovery plan for occupational retirement provision or pension funds. Recovery plans are imposed if a pension fund is underfunding, i.e. if its future liabilities are not adequately covered by assets. These deficits are often due to a more prudent assessment of liabilities, with pension funds using stricter and therefore safer assumptions for the calculation of those liabilities. In order to remedy such deficits, a recovery plan should in principle consist of additional deposits by the contributing company. This year, one new recovery plan has been added. These eight pension funds have 14 727 members. They represent 1% of the total number of members of a pension fund in Belgium. Five pension funds have a restructuring plan in progress. Remediation plans are imposed if there is a deficit at the level of pension schemes for one of the contributing companies, without a global funding gap at the level of the pension fund. This year there will be three new clean-up plans. Unfortunately, since the number of members is not reported per contributing company in a pension fund, I cannot give figures on the number of members associated with the reorganisation plan for their contributing company. Since the financial crisis of 2008, 138 pension funds have at one time or another been in recovery or rehabilitation plans. Sixteen pension funds currently have a recovery or rehabilitation plan, which represents 8% of the total number of pension funds. Given the nature of the pension liabilities, i.e. long-term liabilities, the pension funds concerned are not, in principle, subject to a real liquidity risk. Therefore, a recovery plan is allowed to cover several years, usually even five years, so that the payment obligation for the contributing company is or can be spread out. Sometimes a deficit is immediately paid up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u87	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. It is important that we have and continue to have an insight into that data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u88	Minister, my question is in line with the discussions and questions on supplementary pensions. The control of the second and third pension pillars was entrusted to the National Bank of Belgium at the time, while the control of pension funds is carried out by the FSMA. Anyone who conducts that investigation finds that the data of the National Bank does not appear to distinguish between the second and third pension pillars, while the purpose and approach of a supplementary pension in the second pillar is completely different from that in the third pillar. The third pillar is a form of tax-enhancing savings, as it is often formulated, which is also completely separate from a labour context. That distinction is relevant in the sense that there is a state guarantee for the third pillar of up to EUR 100 000, whereas that guarantee does not exist for the second pillar. I see you're shaking no. What are the reasons why this distinction between the second and the third pension pillars is not made or cannot be made? Is it possible to make that distinction and, if so, in what period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u89	Mrs Becq, on your first question, I can say that the notion of pension pillars is not a reference in the international statistical obligations on financial accounts. In the current situation, the National Bank can provide full figures on the second pension pillar. I refer more specifically to Table 12.4 of the Bank's Statistical Magazine. The heading "Pension rights of households' shall contain the total amount of the second pillar, which shall include group insurance and pension funds. Those statistics are based entirely on aggregates of the data provided by the insurance institutions in the context of prudential supervision, on the one hand, and on the figures of the pension funds published by the FMSA, on the other. However, these figures do not allow for a correct estimate of the third pension pillar. Figures on the third pension pillar should include pension savings, as well as the part of individual insurances drawn up for the purpose of establishing a pension. It's not obvious to determine that part. Even at European level, in the current European system of national accounts, the famous ESA 2010, discussions continue on the concrete demarcation of financial instruments, pension rights, life assurance rights and interest rates. As reported, the National Bank collects basic information, but for its role as a prudential supervisor, the NBB does not need to know the distinction between the second and third pillars. The distinction is based on a different treatment of similar insurance products, for example in the area of taxation, the state guarantee in force, as well as the provisions of the legislation on supplementary pensions; the latter is, moreover, a competence of the FSMA. From a prudential point of view, the insurance products and the associated risks are similar for the company, regardless of their use for the two pillars. The National Bank does have separate information on group insurance and individual insurance. The distinction between group and individual insurance is not the same as that between the second and third pillars, but may be used for an estimate in this respect. You also asked whether there was any prospect of a possible split-up of this data in the future. The legal and regulatory framework relating to the prudential supervision of insurance undertakings is fully reformed by the entry into force of the Law transposing Solvency II, the Solvency II Directive of 1 January 2016. In this context, insurance companies are subject to new reporting obligations. Reporting is harmonised at European Union level, but only has a prudential objective. The new reporting therefore does not distinguish between second or third pillar insurance products. Member States may derogate from the obligation only if this can be justified by national prudential specificities. From a statistical point of view, the missing information on the third pillar should become available as part of a new ESA reporting by the end of the current decade. So there's still hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which does not, however, provide a concrete solution in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u91	I can always inform the National Bank to what extent it can do anything useful in the context of a possible estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u92	Well, then we'd have some insight into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u93	Mr President, Minister, the media have repeatedly referred to a tax fraud case opened against Electrabel for facts relating to the 2013 fiscal year, which was brought to light by a report of the CREG, in order to demonstrate internal overbilling practices aimed at escaping tax in the head of the energy company. You yourself spoke on the subject at the end of July, which is why I would like to ask you about the content and follow-up of this dossier. I am usually told that this is confidential information, but in this case I think that we can obtain the most precise information possible as parliamentarians. Minister, can you tell us what is the nature of the charges against Electrabel? What are the amounts involved, in particular the amounts of tax evaded and for which tax year? What is the amount of the financial penalty incurred by Electrabel on the basis of these facts? What is the status of the recovery procedure? What is the timetable for the continuation of this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u94	Mr Gilkinet, the formal provisions of Article 337 of the Income Tax Code 1992 concerning professional secrecy do not allow me to provide concrete data on an ongoing tax investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u95	Minister, I see that several members or former members of the government can speak on the whole issue, but when you ask a specific question in Parliament, you can't get any information. I regret it! Why don't you make the same response to the media when they question you? There is a problematic logic in your head, beyond the facts of fraud, proven or not, perpetrated by this well-known society. I regret that, in the hope that more is happening in this matter than what has just happened in the context of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u96	Mr President, Mr Minister, following the LuxLeaks dossier, you have contacted your Luxembourg colleague to obtain more information on the tax rulings that Belgian companies in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg had been able to benefit from. In response to a parliamentary question, you stated, in particular on 13 February this year, that on 5 February, 13 rules relating to 16 Luxembourg companies linked to Belgian companies had been communicated to Belgium and that an in-depth monitoring of the tax situation of the Belgian companies covered by the Luxembourg rules would be carried out as soon as possible by your department. You also stated that the content of this check and that the distribution of the files between the different tax administrations would depend on the circumstances of the facts specific to each situation and that it would be verified, in particular, in the context of this thorough check, whether the undertaking in question had mentioned, in its application, the existence of a Luxembourg ruling. Mr Minister, can you tell us whether, since February, any other rules concerning Belgian companies have been communicated to you by the Luxembourg State? Have any regulations concerning Luxembourg companies been communicated by the Belgian State to the Luxembourg State? What is the status of the ISI's analysis of the Luxembourg Government's rulings? What has been the result of the verification of the existence of a mention of these Luxembourg rules in the tax declarations of the undertakings concerned? Have tax adjustments been made in relation to these companies? How many cases? For what amounts? For what years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u97	Mr Gilkinet, first of all, let me remind you that Belgium is the first country to have announced that it intends to exchange information about the rulings spontaneously. This has made it possible to complete all the preparatory work. Belgium will soon be able to start trading. On 5 February 2015, following the request of the Belgian competent authority, 13 rules were actually transmitted by the Luxembourg State. Since then, my administration has not been aware of any other rules concerning Belgian companies. On the other hand, I can confirm that my administration has not yet communicated any rules to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg concerning Luxembourg companies. As regards the 13 rules which we have been informed of by the Luxembourg tax administration, a pre-investigation has been initiated. It appears from the latter that the said rules concern members of groups of companies in which eight Belgian companies are involved and that for five of them it has been decided to set up an in-depth tax investigation. In addition, I repeat my answer to the previous question. The formal provisions of article 337 of the Income Tax Code 1992 concerning professional secrecy do not allow me to provide details of the tax investigation that is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u98	Minister, I wasn't asking you for company names, but for an idea of the financial volume involved and information on how to track these files. I note that five in-depth tax investigations are under way. I hope that they will come to a conclusion which I cannot prejudge. In the fight against tax fraud, a little pedagogy is sometimes useful in order to show that your administration is able to complete a case and impose penalties to the extent of the fault committed against taxpayers. This may encourage other companies to break the logic of tax evasion. As regards the exchange of information with other States, I will come back to you to learn more about Belgium's attitude to the European Parliament's Committee on Taxes. It comes to my mind that if Belgium was the first to say that it would agree to issue rulings, it does not do so with regard to this committee, which is not a committee of inquiry, and I regret that. Every tax administration, every state, every finance minister must cooperate more in this exchange of information that I hope will be automatic and effective in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u99	Mr President, Minister, once again I am relying on public information. Articles from the newspaper Le Soir on Saturdays, March 28 and May 9, 2015 detailed how BNP Paribas Fortis bank traded customers between November 2009 and October 2010 to sell Greek bonds, even though it was already clear that they were at risk. It's not up to me to tell you. According to Le Soir, many defensive clients have been victims of these practices. These events are very serious, as they have led to serious financial losses and the bank has not acted as an advisor to the investors concerned. At the time, the Belgian State was still a shareholder of the bank. Moreover, the information published in Le Soir appears sufficiently precise and serious as to merit an investigation by the authority of the financial markets. Minister, can you tell us whether the FSMA or any other body has initiated an investigation based on the information published in Le Soir? If so, what is the status? How long should this investigation be completed? If it has already come to fruition, what are the conclusions? Does it confirm the facts described by the newspaper Le Soir? What was BNP Paribas Fortis' policy at the time with regard to the sale of Greek bonds? Was it validated by the Belgian State as a 25% shareholder of the bank? What was the rating of Greek bonds during the period concerned (November 2009 to October 2010)? Do you confirm that, in view of their ratings at the time, these obligations should not have been sold to customers with a defensive profile? How many BNP Paribas Fortis customers purchased Greek bonds during the reporting period? What is the total amount of Greek bonds sold to its customers by BNP Paribas Fortis during the reporting period? Who was the holder of these obligations? Is it the bank itself or another institutional actor close to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u100	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, to answer your first questions, I can confirm that the facts you are reporting are being examined by the FSMA. Given its obligations of professional secrecy, FSMA cannot communicate on ongoing analyses. If, however, this analysis results in an administrative fine, it will be published on the FSMA website. I would point out that administrative fines are imposed by a sanctions committee composed mainly of judges after the hearing of the case by the FSMA auditor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u101	I take note of the fact that an investigation is under way. I hope that it will succeed, that we will advertise it. I regret the lack of an answer to the other questions I asked you. During the period concerned, the Belgian State was 25 % shareholder of BNP Paribas Fortis Bank. At least as such, you or your predecessors should have been attentive to this situation and to the company's internal policy, not on a daily basis, but in its main lines. If they are proven, the facts are very serious and deserve punishment. I hope that the FSMA will be able to establish it in one way or the other. This seems essential to me in order to change certain practices of certain banking and financial actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u102	Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you, as I have already done, about the way in which tobacco taxes are increased. As you know, tobacco taxation is in fact made up of several types of excise duty. The National Coalition against Tobacco has written to you about this. One of the Coalition's criticisms of the government's decision is that this decision would allow the tobacco industry to earn a significant bonus as a result of the increase in the price of tobacco, simply because you have made the choice to use proportional excise duty and not specific excise duty. The choice of proportional excise duties therefore leads to an increase in financial revenues to cigar manufacturers. It was last July. Following last July's decisions, what about that, minister? Has the government changed its shoulder rifle? Will the increase in the price of tobacco be achieved through an increase in specific excise duties and not through an increase in proportional excise duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u103	Mrs Fonck, let me first of all point out that the return on excise duties is intended to finance the reduction of the burden on labour. This increase will also correct the significant difference between the price of cigarettes and that of rolling tobacco. Prices will also rise for both types of products. The Foundation against Cancer and Vereniging respiratory voor gezondheidszorg drew erroneous conclusions from the press conference on the tax shift. They were based on the principle that the government had opted for a yield obtained through a percentage increase, thus ad valorem, calculated on the basis of the selling price instead of a fixed increase in excise duties, a fixed amount per number of cigarettes. After an interview with the organisations concerned, during which they were explained that a fixed increase in excise duties was actually being used, they acknowledged that their hypothesis, according to which the tobacco sector would earn an additional € 261 million, was unfounded. The increase in excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco respects the government's agreement. I want proof of this as the basis for calculating the increase in excise duties. It is structured around two components, namely that the minimum excise duties on cigarettes and rolling tobacco increase by EUR 7 per year and the specific excise duties increase by a fixed amount each year. For cigarettes, in 2016: + EUR 2.62; in 2017: + EUR 3.15; in 2018: + EUR 3.67 and in 2019: + EUR 2.10. For rolling tobacco, in 2016: + 7,2 euros; in 2017: + 8,34 euros; in 2018: + 10,31 euros and in 2019: + 5,74 euros. The performance accounts included a 70% split for roll tobacco and a 30% split for cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answers. Why are you going to work on minimum excise duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u105	That's what was decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u106	This means that you will rely on a percentage or a fixed rate, as for ad valorem specific excise duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u107	It'll be from a fixed rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u108	Does this mean that, for the increase in tobacco prices, the delta allows a return to the state?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u110	I will conclude, because my goal is not to get us into a ping-pong game. I urge the government to ensure that the additional financial return from the increase in the price of tobacco goes, at least in part, towards the fight against tobacco and, in particular, the aid for smoking cessation, of which we know that it is insufficient. Moreover, in recent years excise duties have been allocated to public health policies. This seems to me fundamental and ethically normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament 6050 and No. Mr Van Biesen's 6051 will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej's 6062 was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u112	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief. In 2005, the legislator decided to phase out bearer shares. In December 2011, the legislator decided to levy a tax on the conversion of shares to bearer, gradually as the years pass. A tax of 1 % was initially provided for on the conversion during 2012 and 2 % in 2013. That tax had to be paid by the intermediaries in the case of securities accounts or by the issuing companies. It was expected that this tax would be passed on to the final customer/saver/saver. On 5 February 2015, the Constitutional Court ruled that this tax is illegal, as it runs counter to provisions of European law. The tax administration subsequently issued a circular to discuss the consequences of the judgment and to settle the possibilities of reimbursement for the taxpayers. In that circular, the administration considered that the beneficiaries are the listed intermediaries and issuing companies and not the final saver/customer/beneficiary who may have been charged the tax. I'll come to my questions. Have you already consulted the sector on this issue in order to discuss the consequences of the judgment? If yes, have you been able to discuss the situation of the actual holders of the securities, i.e. the customer/saver/bearer? In your opinion, will the amounts recovered ultimately be sent to the customer/saver/saver and not to the intermediaries or issuing companies, as stated by the administration? I had not included it in the written version of my question, but I was wondering if you know the correct amount of that tax revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u113	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, to start with the last question, I do not know the amount, but I will not fail to check whether it is available. If so, I will, of course, inform you. The consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 5 February 2015 to which you refer, regarding the tax on bearer securities, were discussed by the General Administration of Taxation in a circular dated 3 June 2015. This circular can be consulted freely on the website of the FPS Finance. As a rule, the administration has assumed that the amounts due will be repaid to those who have carried out the payments as taxpayers of this tax. So it also makes sense that it goes back in that order. Since the establishment of the Centres of Large Enterprises on 1 July 2015, the questions for reimbursement have to be submitted.This is important to the Centre of Large Enterprises Management and Specialized Controls, or to the Control Centre in Eupen for the German speaking area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u114	Mr Minister, could you explain a little more about the concept of "tax liability" for payment? Is it then the one who ultimately made the effective payment? Is that supposed to mean that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u115	Here again, I would like to try to look at the definition, but it seems obvious to me that the person who owed the tax was the person who initially owed the tax; regardless of whether he paid the tax directly or through an intermediary, he remains the person who owed the tax and the money must therefore finally return to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-21-54-commissie-ic248x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for it has been a long day. We're well advanced. Next Wednesday afternoon we will first receive Minister Wilmès with a number of designs and then Minister Van Overtveldt, also with draft laws. Then we shall have the oral questions that we have not discussed today dealt with and go as far as possible. The minister is expected around 15:30.
