ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly): José Brisart, a former member of the Chamber, died in Lessines on 23 June at the age of 61. From October 1985 to December 1987 and from November 1991 to May 1995, José Brisart sat in the House of Representatives and the Walloon Regional Council for the Borough of Soignies. In the latter assembly he was both Secretary of the Bureau and Head of the Ecolo Group from 1992 to 1995. As one of the first Ecolo elected at federal and regional level, Mr Brisart paid particular attention to the environmental and financial impact of major infrastructure works and the waste problem. After 1995, José Brisart remained an active member of Ecolo in his municipality of Lessines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u3	The President (in front of the standing assembly): Véronique Cornet, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 14 July in Montigny-le-Tilleul at the age of 46. After obtaining the degree in law at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Ms Cornet became a municipal receiver of the city of Thuin in 1994. From a liberal-engaged family, she became a member of the Chamber of Representatives of the Charleroi-Thuin Arrondissement in October 1997. From June 1999, Véronique Cornet sat continuously, first for the PRL and then for the MR, on the benches of the Parliament of the French Community and the Walloon Parliament, of which she was the first Vice-President since 2004. Known for her perseverance and control of her files, Cornet was particularly involved in regional employment, rural development and property management. Véronique Cornet had served as mayor of Montigny-le-Tilleul since January 2001.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I propose that item 5 of the plenary agenda be supplemented by: - the draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism, Nos 1198/1 to 4. - the bill (Mr Aldo Carcaci) to deprive jihadists of Belgian nationality and all social benefits, No. 658/1. - the bill (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) on the punishment and revocation of Belgian nationality of Belgians who voluntarily join or perform duties for certain jihadist groups, associations or entities, No. 781/1. - the bill (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the law of 1 August 1979 on services provided by a foreign army or force situated in the territory of a foreign State in order to prohibit the departure of fighters to Syria or Iraq, No. 795/1. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Code of Belgian nationality in order to extend the scope for the revocation of nationality, No. 796/1. - the bill (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the law of 1 August 1979 on services provided by a foreign army or force situated in the territory of a foreign State, No. 1078/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I propose that you complete item 5 of the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session by: - the draft law to strengthen the fight against terrorism, Nos. 1198/1 to 4. - the proposal for a law (Mr Aldo Carcaci) to deprive jihadists of Belgian nationality and of any social advantage, No 658/1. - the proposal for a law (Mr Filip Dewinter, Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris) providing for sanctions and the revocation of Belgian nationality for Belgians who voluntarily join certain jihadist groups, associations or entities or carry out missions for them, No. 781/1. - the bill (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the Act of 1 August 1979 concerning services in a foreign army or troop located in the territory of a foreign State, with a view to prohibiting the departure of combatants to Syria or Iraq, No. 795/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms Vanessa Matz and Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Belgian Nationality Code in order to extend the possibility of deprivation of nationality, No. 796/1. - the draft law (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the Act of 1 August 1979 concerning services in a foreign army or troupe located in the territory of a foreign State, No. 1078/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u5	Mr President, before you continue, I would like to draw your attention to the trouble that is going on in this House. Indeed, you have rightly mentioned our former colleagues who have disappeared. We all wanted to show our affection and empathy through a minute of silence and government intervention. We do not understand very well what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u6	Mrs Onkelinx, I think you should distinguish between a mourner, whom we hold for honorary members of the Chamber, on the one hand, and ordinary death reports for persons who have spent most of their careers in parliaments other than the Federal Parliament, on the other. From the last one, I'll only give you a reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u7	Mr President, I think Mrs Cornet has been a member of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u8	I think you misunderstood me. They spent most of their career in another parliament. That is why we felt that we should make a distinction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u9	If we could still do this minute of silence tomorrow, it would be a good thing to be able to give all our consideration to individuals and the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u10	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u11	Mr President, I would just like to thank our colleague, Mrs Onkelinx, for making this remark at the same time as this request. It happens that, given the institutional history of our country, many members of this House have sat in various parliaments at different times, with Mrs Cornet, with Mr Brisart. We naturally felt the need to pay tribute to them. I would therefore like to thank you for taking a step in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u12	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u13	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I propose: - the draft law of Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Mrs Leen Dierick, Mrs Griet Smaers, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Rita Gantois, Mr Werner Janssen and Mr Frank Wilrycx, and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu amending the law of 29 August 1988 on the arrangements for the inheritance of agricultural holdings (No. 325/1) back to the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture and - the draft law of Mr Stefaan Vercamer, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Sonja Becq and Mr Roel Deseyn amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of employees' pay (No. 314/1) back to the Social Affairs Committee to discuss technical amendments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 July 2015, I propose that you refer: - the bill of Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Jef Van den Bergh, Mrs Len Dierick, Mrs Griet Smaers, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Rita Gantois, MM. Werner Janssen and Frank Wilrycx and Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu amending the Act of 29 August 1988 on the inheritance of farmers (No 325/1) to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture and - the draft law of Mr Stefaan Vercamer, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Sonja Becq and Mr Roel Deseyn amending the law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of workers' remuneration with regard to payment of remuneration (No 314/1) to the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss technical amendments. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u14	Mr President, thank you for referring to legislative proposal No. 314 to the commission. I propose that the members of the Social Affairs Committee meet at 15:00 in a committee room to be determined. That's where we can look at the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u15	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 550: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Wouter De Vriendt, Muriel Gerkens - 679: Peter Vanvelthoven, Ahmed Laaouej, Karin Temmerman, Stéphane Crusnière, Dirk Van der Maelen - 1038: Jan Spooren, Zuhal Demir, Peter De Roover, Sophie De Wit, Wouter Raskin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u16	Mr President, we are going to have a very important debate on this programme law, both on the social side and on the tax side. This programme law has been discussed at length in the Finance Committee. It contains extremely important provisions which, in our view, are very bad for our country's tax revenues. In this respect, amendments will be tabled, including an amendment that I tabled on the Cayman tax. I will use Mr Laaouej's formula which says that this provision is more like a gruyère than a genuine mechanism to combat tax evasion. I ask that this amendment be sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u17	Mr President, on the same text and for reasons very similar to those of Mrs Onkelinx, we have also tabled an amendment since we believe that we have not received sufficient answers at the sitting of the Committee on Finance concerning the quality of the tax system provided for by the majority as regards companies or individuals who would place money which should be taxed in Belgium in offshore companies in tax havens. We have drafted an amendment which, if adopted, would greatly improve the quality of the text of the majority, to meet its stated objectives of better tax collection. In order to have all the legal guarantees on the text, we are also asking for an opinion from the Council of State on this amendment, which we are submitting in order to convince the majority to adopt this much-needed correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u18	Mr President, we have also tabled an amendment to the chapter of the programme law relating to carat tax, the special regime for the diamond sector. Let there be no doubt that we will not support that carat tax under any circumstances. It would be better for the government to withdraw that chapter from the program law. The argument that the government uses for carat tax is that this means a tax increase for the sector. In all honesty, I haven't heard many sectors argue for a tax increase. It would be interesting to know if there are any other sectors that absolutely want to pay more taxes. Perhaps that could help solve the government's budgetary problems. I learned from the discussion in committee that this is a tax increase that will give oxygen to the sector, generate more investment and generate more jobs. This tax increase will ensure that Dubai's diamonds will return to Belgium. If all that's possible, I have to say it's good work. At the same time, however, it shows that the whole argument does not make any sense. We have specifically tabled an amendment because there is no anti-abuse clause in the chapter of carat tax. If it were to be established that the effective accounting profit is much higher than the profit calculated on a flat-rate basis, I do not believe that this part of the profit should also be exempted. That is why our amendment proposes an anti-abuse clause. Mr President, we are asking for dispatch to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u19	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, we have tabled an amendment which we wish to send to the Council of State on the issue of taxation of intercommunals. The majority's desire to impose intercommunal taxes on corporate taxes now has many reactions. Appeals have already been brought, in particular by Flemish municipalities, but not only, to the Constitutional Court. The government itself has introduced amendments by changing its foot during the debates, since after considering exempting the water supply sector, it has waived this exemption in order to allow exemption only for hospital management intercommunals. It seems to us that this creates a form of discrimination, in most cases as regards basic services or goods. We therefore table an amendment so that all the intercommunals that provide these basic services or goods in the energy, waste or early childhood sector – since the debates have shown that this sector would not escape corporate tax – can return to an exemption, otherwise we fear that citizens and SMEs will be penalized, since intercommunals will inevitably have to pass on the cost of this tax to their customers, citizens and SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u20	Mr. Chair, this program bill includes a variety of measures. And if there is a common denominator that can be found in a series of provisions, I have no other words than "legalization of fraud", through the SME helper that offers plenty of opportunities for abuse, professional discount exemptions, the Cayman tax or the Diamond tax. It is in this sense, particularly on the Diamant tax, which we believe is the ultimate in this area, that we are introducing an amendment to call into question the basic philosophy of this tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that a request for advice from the Council of State must be supported by at least one third of the members of the Chamber. May I ask that those who support the request for advice stand up?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u22	The opinion of the Council of State will be requested. The discussion of the programme law and related proposals are hereby postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u23	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Willy Demeyer, Fabienne Winckel, Eric Massin, Laurette Onkelinx, Özlem Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u24	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u25	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u26	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u27	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (139/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (139/8) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u28	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u29	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Clarinval, Kattrin Jadin, Denis Ducrame, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Benoît Friart, Luc Gustin, Damien Thiéry, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u30	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u31	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today is of particular interest to me because it concerns a very worrying situation: the lack of general practitioners in certain parts of our country. The fact is not new: the rural areas of our country are particularly affected by this problem. We have been working on solutions for many years, but unfortunately the issue is still up to date. Our health care system has so far allowed the existence of a medicine recognized as one of the best, accessible to all and meeting the requirements of free choice of the patient and the therapeutic and diagnostic freedom of the care providers. It is based on the principle of solidarity, which ensures quality and accessible health care coverage for every citizen. However, in some parts of the country we find that medical supply is inadequate. In rural areas, but not only, we encounter a very low density of active general practitioners, which is a problem for ensuring quality, continuity of care and accessibility, especially during guards. For some time now, our work has begun under the auspices of Minister Laurette Onkelinx and we have been working on the attractiveness of general medicine. In April 2010, our group received the support of Members of the Plenary Assembly on a motion for a resolution on the attractiveness of general medicine. At the time, we had put in place 18 concrete measures to boost the attractiveness of medicine. In the continuation of this resolution, my approach has been to translate certain points of the 2010 resolution into legislative proposals so that the legislator can deal with the problem. Two bills concerned the Impulse Fund, which had been set up to encourage the establishment of young doctors or the relocation of current medical practices to areas of low medical density. Now regionalised, the Fund's intervention is carried out by granting two types of aid, i.e. an interest-free loan of up to EUR 15 000 for any new general practitioner facility, or a single grant of EUR 20 000 for doctors who settle in a so-called priority area or who move their medical practice from a non-priority area to a priority area. These areas are those where demand for new facilities is greatest. This sum of €20,000 is intended to help finance their installation and the start of a sometimes difficult medical practice. As far as this premium is concerned, in 2011 I was able to translate the tax component into reality. In short, the tax administration considered this amount of €20,000 to be a professional income of the doctor to be declared by the doctor. A significant part of this aid was thus absorbed by tax. The law passed on 14 July 2011 aimed to subject this premium to a separate tax at a reduced rate of 16.5 per cent. In doing so, the attractive character of the Impulse Prime was guaranteed. Today, the proposed legislation before you embodies the second aspect, the social aspect. As this €20,000 premium is considered to be a professional income of the doctor, it leads to an increase in social contributions. Since this is an incentive premium which is not intended to compensate for any loss of income, it is logical that the Impulse premium should be removed from the basis for calculating social contributions and their rate. It is this text that is before you today. For information purposes, this still represents an aid of almost 3,000 euros for each doctor who will come to live in rural areas. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to thank all the groups, both the majority and the opposition, who have supported this text once again. We had unanimous support for the resolution and for the first law. I hope that we can have unanimity on this second law. I would also like to thank Minister De Block and Minister Borsus, who also supported the initiative. I also thank Mrs Natacha Beugnier and the collaborators who have been following this issue with perseverance for so many years. I hope that we can have a unanimous vote on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u33	Posting of workers is not always easy. The problems, which are considerable, are at different levels. At the federal level, we are very pleased that, on the basis of Mr Clarinval's proposal, we have found broad support for adopting the resolution to address the problems of posting workers. We ask that the government implement the proposed measures. Of course, we support the principle of the free movement of workers. If the European rules are correctly applied, there is no problem. For example, the European Posting of Workers Directive provides that employers in the European Union must apply the working and wage conditions of the country in which the worker is employed, or the conditions valid in the country from which the worker comes, if they are more advantageous than those in the country of employment. On the other hand, the social security contribution is always paid in the country of origin, which gives a significant advantage in countries with low contributions. The abuses are therefore also numerous. Especially in the transport, meat and construction sectors, we see a lot of fraud. For example, there are companies that do not pay social security contributions anywhere, even in the country of origin, which are also very reluctant to cooperate in the detection of fraud. Some set up mailbox companies to send employees to Belgium and escape social contributions in our country. Often these workers do not even come from abroad. This obviously creates false competition, because such companies may be between 20% and 30% below the market price. Many SMEs in Belgium, especially in the construction sector, continue to lose contracts to foreign companies and to Belgian construction companies that employ foreign subcontractors who do not respect the rules of the game. For example, workers from Germany, where hours' wages are paid between three and eight euros, are coming here to work in slaughterhouses. Let us not forget the human suffering. Such practices lead to degrading conditions: they do not pay overtime; they do not respect working time or they do not report accidents at work. In many cases one can speak of a modern form of slavery. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake. There is another text on the agenda. I will not repeat this part of my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u35	To be quite clear, we now turn to the general discussion on the Impulse Prime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u36	Mr President, the so-called priority areas, the rural areas of this country, are facing a shortage of general practitioners. The age pyramid and demographics indicate that in a decade or so this problem will become increasingly acute. Previous governments and this Assembly under previous legislatures have been working on this issue and have taken steps that have certainly led to improvements and which have no doubt led to a halt to this phenomenon, but have not completely resolved it. Mr Clarinval has already made a part of the history, but I would like briefly to point out that it was Minister Rudy Demotte who launched the first Impulseo project in 2006, then supplemented by Mrs Onkelinx, Minister for Social Affairs, with Impusleo 3, to provide specific assistance to general practitioners who are settling in the so-called priority regions. It is true that, under the leadership of Mr Clarinval, this Parliament, all parties, the majority and the opposition, voted, by a very large majority, on a resolution proposing a series of complementary measures. It is in this context that we must situate this proposal, which aims to obtain a particular tax system, once again to encourage people to stay in priority areas. As we have said in committee, this is a positive measure and our group will support it when we vote in plenary, but it will obviously not solve the whole problem. I think that Parliament could once again take up the debate at the beginning of the year, in general, to examine these 18 measures, which could be done in a complementary way. Our group is open to this work. We must certainly pursue it, update it and amplify it because the problem will become more and more acute in the years to come. I also wanted to point out that the system of care for general practitioners, set up by Ms. Onkelinx under the previous legislature - the call number 1733 launched on an experimental basis in a series of sub-regions in this country and which is now becoming more widespread - was also intended to make the benefits of general practitioners who were completely trapped in their professional and private lives because of the understaffed situation in these regions bearable. I think all this is in the same direction. Mr Clarinval, I confirm that the Socialist Group will support, as in committee, this bill and we are looking for much broader reflection on the issue of this shortage and its consequences in the years to come. Finally, as I pointed out in committee, the question of funding also arises. I am thinking here of the loss of profits from social security, which has been estimated at 600,000 euros. In itself, it is not an important sum. We are therefore in favour of the measure, but we would like to draw attention to the social security deficit. We have therefore asked the government and, in particular, Mrs De Block, to find ways to compensate through alternative financing. But I have no doubt that the drafters of the bill, including Mr Clarinval, will be careful, within the framework of the tax shift that is being negotiated, that the shift in income over large fortunes and others will make it possible, through this alternative financing, to compensate for the amount involved. In any case, we will pay attention to the overall financing of social security because, ultimately, if the deficit were to increase, it would be the patients of the whole country who would suffer the consequences through austerity measures or a reduction in reimbursement. The challenge is therefore also to make medicine accessible to all in all regions of the country. Having said that, we will vote for this bill, which is in favour of general practitioners working in the so-called priority areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u37	Mr President, I would also like to say to Mr Clarinval that, as was the case with the work on the resolution and the tax measures, we will support his proposal to exempt from social contributions the Impulse 3 premium granted to encourage the installation of doctors in areas in need. However, I stress that such measures are not enough to attract doctors to areas identified as being in short supply. Health work must therefore also be done, in particular to improve childcare facilities that enable doctors working in these areas to work decently. In addition, it will be essential – I would like to stress this point because it is timely – not to be content with the current "dynamic" cadastre to identify doctors according to their specialization as well as the needs for the future. In the discussions we had in the Committee on Health, we found that important information was lacking, such as the necessary devices to ensure that the patient from an elderly doctor was passed on to a younger doctor. It was equally essential to take into account the type of consultation and the time spent on it. We do not have any of these data. We must take this into account in order to ensure that the entire territory is adequately covered by the medical disciplines which will have to work in multidisciplinarity. The purpose of this measure is to allocate the money only to the installation of doctors who agree to go to an area in need, and to ensure that they are not penalized in relation to the income they derive from their professional activity. Mr President, these are the measures I wanted to highlight.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to reflect on the fact that we will support this bill, as adopted in committee, I would like to draw attention to the need for a more comprehensive analysis, in particular for the installation of doctors in priority areas or in rural areas. Let us not forget that beyond the diagnosis and treatment that doctors refer to, there is also a series of other operators in the health care sector: physiotherapists, nurses... The positioning in this type of priority area is also difficult for them. The proposal as submitted to us is a means or an element of the solution. It is important to work more intensively if we are to respond to the acute situation. If measures are not taken, in a few years, whole areas will be without doctors, which will cause difficulties in terms of health care coverage in rural or other areas. It is necessary to stimulate this type of place and to strengthen the attractiveness of the profession with regard to general practitioners initially, but more generally with other actors in the health care sector. Mr. Speaker, I wanted to conclude by saying that we will support this bill by passing on a new request for a more comprehensive debate on the situation, including the paramedical sector and health care in rural areas, which deserves our full attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u39	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the FDF, we will support this bill. I would like to stress that we are particularly sensitive to this problem of the risk of shortage of doctors in rural areas. The FDF has also initiated a resolution to this effect, which is more focused on the INAMI quota for municipalities particularly affected by this risk of shortage. We received the support of two parties. I would have liked my two colleagues in the MR to support us as well; indeed, it is by working together that we can move forward. We are very much in favour of this bill and we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u40	Mr President, I thank colleagues for their intervention and support of this bill, which, as Mr Delizée pointed out, is the result of a long-term work initially carried out with Minister Onkelinx and then with Minister De Block. It is a work that has been done in continuity. I agree, of course, with the point raised: it is not only this bill that will solve the problem of the persistence and lack of attractiveness of the rural area for general medicine. But it is a small stone that is inserted into the building which aims to increase the attractiveness of general medicine in rural areas. I am quite prepared, as colleagues ask, to participate in a more comprehensive debate. The resolution we voted for at the time included 18 measures. We can assess the implementation of this resolution, update it and supplement it. As Mr de Lamotte pointed out, other important elements are in the hands of the Communities and should be implemented. I am quite prepared to start a comprehensive debate on this issue and I thank my colleagues for their support of this text. The FDF proposal deserves our full attention and we will discuss it with the MR colleagues. I am currently not in a position to comment on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u41	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u42	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (408/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (408/7) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal to amend Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July 1967 establishing the social status of selfemployed persons in order not to take into account the Impulseo 1 contribution in the calculation of social contributions.' The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July 1967 on the social status of self-employed persons, aimed at excluding the premium from the calculation of social contributions. The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u44	V Earrings submitted by: Proposals submitted by: - 768: Hans Bonte - 797: Georges Dallemagne, Vanessa Matz - 658: Aldo Carcaci - 781: Filip Dewinter, Barbara Pas, Jan Penris - 795: Georges Dallemagne, Vanessa Matz - 796: Vanessa Matz, Georges Dallemagne - 1078: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws and proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills and bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Nele Lijnen, Katja Gabriels and Vanessa Matz, Mr Koen Metsu and Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh. Mrs Lijnen refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u46	Mr President, I also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of my report concerns the draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens with a view to better taking into account threats to society and national security in applications for international protection, No 1197/1. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration has introduced a bill, in accordance with the Government Agreement, to adapt the asylum procedure in order to better take into account situations in which persons who enjoy or have applied for international protection status in Belgium constitute a threat to society or national security. The aim of this project is to respond to a very small number of requests – fifteen – which are at the root of extremely problematic situations. The draft provides for almost literal transposition of Directive 2011/95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011. The bill extends the possibility of refusing or withdrawing refugee or subsidiary protection status to a person who constitutes a danger to society when he or she has been definitively convicted of a particularly serious offence or where there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she poses a threat to public safety. The proposed amendments in this area will also make it possible to refuse or withdraw international protection status. This status may also be withdrawn or refused to persons arriving in Belgium for the sole purpose of avoiding prosecution for an offence punishable by imprisonment. The Secretary of State said: 1. pursue an objective of extending the possibilities for refusal, exclusion or withdrawal of international protection status in order to be able to intervene more quickly and effectively; 2. that the project is in conformity with the European and international rules in force; 3. that the draft provides all the necessary guarantees for the persons concerned. The decision-making and advisory powers of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees are amplified while it is a completely independent institution. 4. That the draft provides for exceptions to the professional secrecy of the CGRA, for example, upon request for information from the International Criminal Court; 5. through the project, it sought a balance between procedural guarantees for refugee candidates and the protection of society and national security. The opinion of the Council of State was delivered on 16 March 2015 and some changes were made following the remarks accepted by the Secretary of State. However, the opinion was only partially followed. The Committee on the Interior then began a deep debate on the question of criteria for refusal or withdrawal of status in connection with the protection of society and national security. Ms. Sarah Smeyers mentioned that the project tightens the conditions for eligibility for protection status and that it will be possible to deprive dangerous persons of status. All aid must be given to those who really need it, because the right to asylum is a fundamental right. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou observed that, in troubled times, security concerns must be shared by all, but care must be taken not to be carried away by fear and to ensure that the measures taken are effective, targeted and proportionate. It criticises the removal of the current ten-year deadline and the unclear and ill-defined nature of the reasons for the withdrawal or refusal decisions. She considered that the opinion of the Council of State had only been very partially followed by the Secretary of State and expressed concern about the provisions lifting the professional secrecy of the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees. Mr Denis Ducrame pointed out that the purpose of the text was in line with the government agreement, that a coherent asylum policy must be human, but also firm. Through the Government's priorities in the fight against radicalism and terrorism, our country will have a set of instruments to better protect society and avoid granting international protection to persons who pose a threat to national security. Ms Veerle Heeren also pointed out that the draft was in line with the government agreement, but asked that the explanatory memorandum should be more precise on the concept of a particularly serious offence and on the concept of a danger to national security. His group welcomed the reaffirmation of the principle of non-refoulement and the role reserved for CGRA. Ms Katja Gabriëls stressed that the Open Vld Group supported the project and considered that the role assigned to CGRA was essential. The application of the principle of non-refoulement will mean that foreigners will no longer have a residence permit, but that they will also not be able to be expelled. This is a problem for which there is no solution, but one cannot continue to offer the benefit of protection to people of bad faith. The impact of the bill will be limited. It will also make it possible to take into account facts that do not constitute crimes in the strict sense. Mr. Benoit Hellings noted that the only effect of the project would be to withdraw from the statutes and the benefits associated with them, but that it would not be effective in terms of combating violence, since people could not be expelled. On the other hand, the title of the project may give the impression that refugees are often dangerous persons. He asked for an explanation of the reasonable grounds included in the draft and noted that the opinion requested from CGRA was not binding and that, in some cases, the right to security would run counter to fundamental rights, such as the right to family life. Ms. Monica De Coninck also questioned the notion of reasonable grounds and asked for guarantees of formal justification for decisions for guaranteed legal certainty. She welcomed the requirement of the CGRA opinion, but regretted that it was not binding. The project risks creating a new category of foreigners who cannot be repatriated. What will be the fate of these people? The representative of the CDH regretted the slow pace with which the various anti-terrorism projects were being tabled, when the measures had been announced in January. The scope of the project is far from symbolic because if the number of people is limited to fifteen, it is fifteen potentially dangerous people. It criticises the vague and relatively broad nature of certain notions. Why not layer the grounds for exclusion on the reasons for deprivation of nationality? Moreover, unlike the directive, the draft applies to particularly serious infringements. Why has the directive not been followed on this point, as the Council of State pointed out? It cannot agree with the nature of the CGRA's opinion, which should always be consistent. Mr. Wouter De Vriendt had no objection in principle to the expulsion of terrorists. The law already provided for this, but the bill goes far enough and extends the case of withdrawal of status or protection with significant consequences. The Secretary of State was looking for new legal instruments for the arbitrary expulsion of aliens, even though they had not necessarily committed punishable acts. The opinion of the Council of State was only partially followed. What should be understood in the notions of reasonable grounds and particularly serious offences? The Committee is of the view that the draft law would degrade the right of asylum to a form of temporary protection that could be withdrawn at any time. What is the balance between the right to security and the right to respect for family life? Shouldn't we see the application of a double sentence? The Secretary of State responded to questions and comments and the Commissioners replied. Ms. Vanessa Matz has tabled amendments to articles 3, 4, 5 and 8 of the draft to limit particularly serious crimes to terrorist offences under the Criminal Code and to require that the Minister's decision be made on the assent of the CGRA. The articles were voted on and the subsidiary amendments rejected. The bill was adopted by 11 votes in favour with 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u48	Mr President, I do not see the point of reading the report. That is why I would very much like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u49	The last rapporteur is Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u50	Mr President, I also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of the agreement reached at the Conference of Presidents. Each group has 20 minutes. The smaller groups, especially PTB, FDF, Flemish Interest and PP, have ten minutes. Those minutes can of course be divided as desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the texts we are going to discuss are obviously important. They are for the present government, which has made the fight against terrorism and radicalisation its battlehorse. They are for our democracy as well as for the previous government. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not have a monopoly on this concern, there are several ways to meet it. I would even say that some, Mr. Reynders, are continually concerned. First of all, let me remind you that it was a socialist Minister of Justice who, as early as 2003, set the first milestones in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation. How? By creating the first law on terrorist offences; by establishing the Central Threat Analysis Office (OCAM); by strengthening collaborations between intelligence services; by providing a legal framework for data search methods; and by establishing the European arrest warrant and several collaborations at European level. He is a socialist prime minister, with it is true a VLD Minister of Justice, who has set up the Task Force Plan R and who has declined this action at the local level. It was under the government of Elio Di Rupo that the operational platform for the fight against radicalism and terrorism and the Syrian task force was created. It was still under the Di Rupo government that a strategy involving the local authorities, the mayors, was developed and implemented. They are socialist-participated governments that act effectively in the Region and in the Community by working on the substantive issues. And it was both on the foundations that were laid at that time and whose efforts were continued by the present government that important successes were recorded. What is the Socialist Party's position on this matter? I have shown that we are not going back on security projects. But in this area as in others, perhaps even more in this one, we demand that strict beacons be laid. Effective strategies and laws are needed to balance the objective with respect for fundamental rights. Combating terrorism and radicalism, of course, but not at the expense of the rule of law or at the cost of legal uncertainty in the face of fundamental rights! Targeted, concrete and effective measures are needed. No powder in the eyes, with nets so wide that they do not reach any of the objectives pursued. I will highlight the timing in passing. We were announced in January, under dramatic circumstances and with the support of all the groups, texts by mid-February. We regret that they are produced only six months later, as a matter of urgency and on the eve of the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u53	Mr Demeyer, I don't understand your nerve! These steps should have been taken under the previous legislature with your Prime Minister, and no one has forgotten. It was still the Di Rupo government!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u54	For thirty years!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u55	We are indeed lagging behind a number of other countries, as well as against certain realities. While you had responsibilities, you dare to tell us that it took six months to take measures that you and your Prime Minister should have initiated at least two or three years ago in view of the realities we have encountered with regard to Belgian departures to Syria. It's really a monster's nerve! You have come to complain about a few months' delay, when you were the "boulet" in relation to the anti-terrorist and anti-radical policies that we should have put in place much earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u56	Mr. President, I will continue. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u57	No, for the Liegeians, it's not offensive. But I would not like to laugh at all of this because we are talking about a serious, serious and important subject. Mr. Ducrame, I said two things. Firstly, I have listed all the dozens of measures taken, both by Mrs Onkelinx and under the leadership of Mr Di Rupo, with your participation and with a Minister of Justice VLD. I simply regretted that the measures announced for February are now coming. If we had been told that six months would be necessary for serious work, we could have followed you too. I didn't say anything else. Secondly, I would like to express my concern to this House. We are sensitized by the highest judges in this country, both formally and informally. We are made aware by the highest police officers in this country on an informal basis of an intention displayed in your proposals. It is extremely dangerous for fundamental freedoms to criminalize intent without material elements in support of this criminalization. We have stressed this in committee and have not received a satisfactory response. In a rule of law, there is no condemnation of intentions. We are not afraid, we have confidence in our justice and that is why we want the means of criminalization and defence to be clearly established and guaranteed. We also believe in the validity of international law. That is why we have doubts about the withdrawal of nationality from a person who has always lived at home, for whom we must otherwise exercise our responsibilities. We are also extremely attentive to the opinions of the Council of State. When it makes serious criticisms, we must take them seriously. My colleagues, who will be speaking earlier on each of your proposals, will have additional questions to make in this regard. We want to do serious parliamentary work, which requires effective action. Minister, in order for a measure to be effective, you know that good texts are needed, but there is also a need for resources. I have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to question you in this regard, and I have not always received reassuring answers. I know that the budgetary context is difficult. We had further discussions last week which showed that this situation had increased, but it is not the 200 million foreseen in the interdepartmental reserve, which the Court of Auditors tells us will not be enough to pay the backlog of the Justice FPS, which reassures us. We also have a unilateral decrease in the Belgian contribution to Interpol, of which the UN Security Council recalls the importance. Finally, we still have this ongoing debate on the privatization of police tasks versus the number to be maintained. While the Belgian system has shown that it is effective and that the effort is sustained, we have before us the prospect of an underfunded justice which the actors tell us will soon be affected. We will have under-equipped and under-staffed police services. Minister, I hope that you will soon be able to remedy some of the shortcomings that you yourself have denounced. You are proposing a battery of measures, many of which are symbolic and which, in order to hold on to the budget, do not cost. Do you believe yourself in the effectiveness of all this? I don't know. I will conclude with an important regret: the lack of action in the field of combating money laundering linked to terrorism. It is an essential sector and we know that if this measure is not spectacular, it will have significant results. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, would it not be more effective to support our text that allows the freezing of the assets of terrorist groups and that would thus attack their operational capability? For all these reasons, therefore, the PS will not generally be able to vote in favour of your provisions, certainly not through laxity. On the contrary, we believe that stronger but different, more effective, more relevant measures would have been needed, with greater concern and respect for fundamental rights. Terrorists, of all time, seek to undermine our democratic principles. Don't let them be right and support our judges, rather support our police officers, by maintaining funding for these services to what it was! Let us work together to achieve this objective, which must bring us together! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u58	Mr President, in our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, the governments have long taken action. There is also the United Nations resolution of 24 September 2014 calling for action against foreign terrorist fighters. We can only regret that the previous governments did not take the problem seriously, especially not Mrs Milquet when she was Minister of the Interior. After Charlie Hebdo and the events in Verviers, we also woke up in Belgium. I think we were right to wake up, because Charlie Hebdo is undoubtedly the 9/11 of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. This has consequences and will continue to have consequences. Our Western model is the model of the Enlightenment. This means that we believe in human reason, which emphasizes human reason and human inalienable and fundamental rights. That's the hard core of our model. That also means that our model should be inclusive, that everyone should feel at home, that everyone should have opportunities. Of course, our model isn't perfect. We all know that there is sometimes discrimination and social disadvantage. We must fight this, but we must remain serious. No form of discrimination or social setback can justify acts of terrorism. Our model of society also means that citizens come first in society, that citizens and society prime on religion, that rights arise within society and not above society. This means that we are citizens first and only then belong to a particular religion. The desire for political change will certainly not contradict a party like mine. This can and should be possible in a democratic society, but this presupposes, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, that two criteria are respected. Firstly, the means used must be democratic. Secondly, the model of society that is respected must also be democratic. It is clear that terrorism does not meet either of the criteria. These are violent violations of human rights. The images of James Foley are burned on our retina. After that, many other horrible images were sent into the world. We've seen footage of women being sold as sex slaves. We've seen footage of homosexuals being thrown down from tall buildings. It is clear that these acts undermine our democratic values and eventually destroy them. We should therefore be grateful that the police have succeeded in preventing attacks in Belgium. At the same time, we must be aware that there is no zero risk. Even the best police forces in the world can't stop the fools of God. The model of society pursued by the violent jihadists is not compatible with the democratic rule of law. However, democracy is the only model consistent with human rights. This also means that democracy is an absolute principle on which there are no exceptions. Democracy does not tolerate exceptions, or it is no longer a democracy. That is why the European Court of Justice has developed the following principle in a long case-law: la démocratie a le droit de se défendre. Democracy has both the right and the duty to defend itself. The Court stresses that the defence of democracy must be done in compliance with the principle of proportionality. In other words, we must strike a balance between the need to defend democracy and the individual rights that jihadists have. That is a fundamental difference between our Western society and the jihadist model. We also respect the individual rights of those who fight democracy. The Prime Minister referred to this in a speech in Parliament as la fierté du démocrate, the pride of the democrat who openly engages in the fight. We must defend our democracy. We must be aware that it is not a we-she-story, that it is not a story of Muslims against others. It is a story of those who respect fundamental rights and those who reject them. It is a story of those who accept the Enlightenment and those who choose the darkness. In my intervention in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs, Defence and Justice at the end of last year, I said that the measures adopted must meet some of the criteria. Firstly, they must be decisive and efficient. Secondly, they must be proportionate. Thirdly, there must be sufficient procedural guarantees. I will not look at all the draft laws here. Mr Smeyers will be discussing the draft bill tabled by Secretary of State Francken. I will focus on the draft bill tabled by the Minister for the Interior on the withdrawal of the identity card. The Council of State rightly points to an important case law of the European Court of Human Rights, including the Bouman judgment against France. That judgment provides that such measures, which restrict the right to move freely, must be regulated by law, pursue a legitimate purpose and be proportionate. I believe that no one can doubt the fact that this draft law pursues a legitimate objective, namely the fight against terrorism. This is about securing national order, public security, and the rights and freedoms of others. The Council of State made a number of recommendations on legal quality requirements included in the draft law by referring to Articles 137 and 139 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As far as proportionality is concerned, I note that there are procedural safeguards, namely an opinion from the OCAD, possibly in consultation with the federal prosecutor or the prosecutor of the King. The person concerned may submit observations within a specified time limit. The Minister can cancel his decision. The decision is also always limited in time, from 25 days to a maximum of three months, once renewable. The person concerned shall also receive a certificate to replace the identity card. I am sure that these guarantees will be proportionate. Finally, I would also like to point out that this is nothing new. The government's been working on this for a while. The N-VA ministers are certainly working on this. Secretary of Defense, Steven Vandeput, has made sure that there were soldiers on the streets when this was necessary for our security. You know that it is not so important for my group whether blue or khaki are on the streets. We go for safety and not really for a color. Safety primes and blue or khaki is less relevant. The Minister for the Interior, Jan Jambon, also made sure that money was allocated to tackle the problem of undersized equipment. Thanks to Minister Jambon, the Special Forces will no longer have to go to Verviers with weapons that have been written off in another country for eight years. Finally, Secretary of State Theo Francken is also working hard and decisively on this. You will no doubt have read in the press that he has taken the residence permit from a radical imam. You will have read in the press this morning that there are a number of other files pending. This is an effective and effective fight against terrorism. So this is about a lot more than just those designs. Secretary of State Theo Francken has also withdrawn the residence permit of seven Syrian fighters. There are also a number of files under discussion. That makes sure they can't come back effectively. I therefore congratulate the government and in particular congratulate the three ministers mentioned on their effective approach to terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u59	Mr President, as I said to Mr Demeyer at the moment, I wish to express my incomprehension. Mr Demeyer, as early as January you promised to participate in a national union around measures essential to the security of all Belgians. What you have done for a number of weeks, and here at this rostrum right now, is to show the division of forces that should necessarily be brought together in the face of what we have been living in Belgium for a little over a year. I do not understand that we can try, on arguments that are not, to distinguish ourselves on a policy that is now absolutely essential. It is not a question of going beyond what is necessary. It is a question of meeting objectives that should have been so long ago. For a little more than a year, Islamist terrorism, which was believed to be exclusively reserved for others, has struck us in the heart. The attack on the Jewish museum was an act committed by a returnee. This was the first act of this order in Belgium. Did we ignore a number of realities that were before our eyes? Have we ignored a number of departures? About ten, then a hundred Belgians went to fight in Syria or Iraq. At the time, the former Socialist Minister of Justice compared the phenomenon with the Spanish war, with the fight against the Francoists. Did we ignore, in the 2009 protests, the shouts "Death to the Jews", the first jihadist flags that were blooming here in Brussels? No doubt we ignored them! The realities came back to us as a boomerang during the attack on the Jewish museum and then to our closest neighbours, in Paris, with the attacks of Charlie Hebdo, cowardly assassinations of journalists who had dared to caricature a prophet. These are obviously acts that attack men and women, but also our values, our freedoms, our right to exist as we wish, in a democratic, European society. A few days after the Paris attacks, once again, we found that the Islamists wanted to hit us in our territory, but our services were up to the challenge. Our services have prevented a number of crimes, murders, murders of police officers, no doubt. It is clear that the reaction of the Michel government, in the context of the twelve measures which it presented extremely quickly to Parliament, should probably have seen the whole assembly unite more closely around these important reforms, many of which were already written black and white in the government agreement and which naturally saw their train speeding up. Not enough for you, Mr. Demeyer! They may have accelerated a little too quickly in the Justice Committee this week, where the PS was not even present to vote on the Justice Minister's "fight against radicalism and terrorism". Neither did the cdH! I am surprised that in a debate as important as this, not all Members are able to attend the committee meeting to discuss measures which, moreover, on the justice side are extremely important. These measures (deprivation of nationality, withdrawal of passports and identity cards, repression of the departures and problematic returns of Belgian fighters on jihadist theatres) are finally common sense measures. They respond to needs that we have to be more offensive to this threat and to the return of a number of these threats. These are important decisions, such as the one that saw the deployment of our military. You were talking about ways. You must know that the government has done everything it can to allow the payment of these soldiers by the Department of the Interior, until the end of the year if necessary. Earlier this year, we had debates about the presence of the military in our streets. These debates have seemed quite inappropriate to us in the face of the reality of the threat we are experiencing in our country. The presence of these soldiers, framed on the basis of a certain degree of threat in a number of places, obviously seemed necessary. As long as the information provided to the government calls for an extension of the military presence to protect a number of potential targets, the majority will support the measures taken by the government. The updating of the Foreign Fighters Circular will make it possible to optimise the exchange of information and follow-up measures for these foreign fighters and returns. It will also simplify existing structures, systematize monitoring and ensure a better division of labour between services and between federal and local levels. Mr Demeyer, you were talking about the freezing of capital that could be used for terrorist operations. You know very well that this measure is one of the twelve measures planned by the government. This is a circular from the Minister of Finance, which will make it possible to optimize the procedure referred to in the Royal Decree of 2006 on the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act of 1993, in order, inter alia, to have as complete a list of names and terrorist entities as possible, in order to freeze their assets. I am pleased that you are following me to this extent, and that you are calling for it. We announced it as part of the government agreement and it is an integral part of the government's approach to it. The government will promote the use of shared secrecy, including between administrative and judicial services. It will also ensure the revision of the R Plan, a guidance document for the various services in order to enable them to better understand the various facets of the terrorist threat. The Minister of Justice has gradually implemented his plan to combat radicalism in prisons. The MR Group has been calling for this measure since 2010. We knew, with the help of some foreign experiments, that one of the earths of radical contamination is in prison. In this context, the measures already implemented in some of our prisons will no doubt prevent some prisoners, who have not arrived in prison with a radical will, from being contaminated by leaders, who will now be systematically isolated. Protecting our society also means protecting our inmates. We have seen it, and we see it in different experiences that have taken place in other countries. It is clear that the fight against radicalism is also based on several new means. It is in this sense that the majority and the government have ensured that additional resources for State security are committed. Among the two million euros allocated to the Internal FPS for new security expenditure, new resources are also being mobilised for the OCAM. You mentioned the under-equipment of some specialized police services. You asked Minister Jambon about this. It is clear that the 30 million that are devoted, among other things, to various materials will allow us to get out of the sub-equipment, so that our specialized services will be able to act in a more autonomous way. You are aware that, during the interventions in Verviers, we had to use the help of the French services, which lent us equipment. It is clear that the acquisition of equipment is aimed at ensuring that our specialized services are independent of action. I imagine you've been able to see the list of what needs to be acquired. Let's face it, we've had to make up for a certain delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u60	Mr. Ducrame, you're talking about equipment. Of course, it is important that we be able to equip ourselves with equipment to follow these candidates for jihadism. Several colleagues visited the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) and the State Security Service a few weeks ago. We were told that many young people who leave or are candidates for jihadism communicate with each other through tools that young people around the world use: Viber, WhatsApp, Facebook. The security services have explained to us that, from time to time, or most of the time, they are out of radar of these services, because they communicate by these means. In any case, I do not see in the twelve measures contained in the government's project, a willingness or, at least, a willingness to find solutions with the companies that manage these messages so that our security services, starting with the State Security – and not the OCAM – can control and verify what these young candidates for jihadism are doing through the current means of communication. I think that beyond material means, it is also a question of giving oneself the technical means to counter radicalism – what you call your wishes. I would like to stress this, because today it is the Sûreté that has played a major role. It is necessary to give back to Caesar what belongs to him. In the Verviers case, it was the Sûreté who monitored these few young people in the process of radicalization and alerted the federal police. It's not the OCAM. OCAM is the information transfer area. Today, we see the ambitions of this structure to become a security bis. For my group, it is very important: State Security, and not another body, must play a major role in the supervision of people who pose a danger to our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u61	(...) You say that additional means are given to a series of services. I am still very surprised that you are talking about complementary means. Overall, the adjustment provided for 200 million for security and the fight against terrorism. These 200 million don't even reset the counters to zero, Mr. Ducrame. They do not reset the meters to zero on the savings your government made in 2015 in the budget of OCAM, State Security, Police and Justice. We cannot therefore talk about complementary means. Instead, say that these means tend to correct a certain disinvestment made in the 2015 budget. I have often said it and I know that you are upset: to make linear reductions across all departments, it is really a non-choice. This means a lack of priorities and no immunity of the justice and interior services, even though this had been done in the previous legislature, allowing the engagement of complementary police officers. I am not afraid to say that you are part of this government that has immunized the justice and interior services. There was no euro reduction on these services in the previous legislature. I just wonder why the government has not made the same decision to immigrate these services. The $200 million is not enough to bring the meters back to zero compared to the huge savings that were made in Budget 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u62	Mr Hellings, I do not know what the services you have met have told you, but I can tell you that the government's will today is to treat as a matter of priority the means of communication used by a number of jihadists or people who could switch into violent radicalism. We are, of course, doing this with the Minister of the Interior at the level of the Federal Police. Of course, we also want to do what could have been done much earlier. I recall, for example, that it was Prime Minister Di Rupo who had been competent since 2012 to set up the Cybersecurity Centre. We have lost a lot of time in this area. We are also trying to catch up with him. And, again, significant budgets in recent fiscal years have been allocated to the establishment of this centre. However, the importance of these networks should not be overstated. I draw your attention to a number of investigations that give the right share to these modes of communication. What I mean is that you would be wrong to think that the communication and gathering of these individuals is exclusively through the new media. I think we overestimate in some contexts, in some reports that you may or may not have read, the share of new media in the transmission of information between radicals. With regard to your comment on Security, we must obviously honour the services that are fighting against radicalism today. We all know that the role of the OCAM is to receive information and to transmit all this information to the government which, on this basis, will be able to assess the level of the threat. So I don't know why you're competing with services that aren't. I wonder what's behind your expression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u63	Mr Ducrame, since the creation of the OCAM as a forum for gathering this information and analysing the threat – that is his name – there has been an attempt that must be thwarted to make the OCAM the third intelligence service. We have to stop. Expertise, knowledge and experience are at the level of the Army Security and Intelligence Service in terms of the protection of our troops when they are abroad. For the rest, it works. Besides, Verviers is one of the most successful stories of the State Security, with obviously the complementary work of our police officers who act on the ground, when it comes to fighting the threat and becoming effective. But it is the work of the Sûreté, first and foremost, which is regulated by an extremely clear law, namely the Law on Special Methods of Research and Methods of Data Collection. That is what is interesting with parliamentary and other follow-up. Today, a Belga dispatch, which I will transfer to you for your information, announced that some to the State Security were married of the increasingly important weight taken by the OCAM. The OCAM does its work and analyses the threat but the real civil intelligence service in Belgium is the State Security and no one else!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u64	Mr President, I was also questioned by the article in the newspaper De Standaard which reveals that the OCAM had somewhat exceeded its mission. It is in this sense – and this is now taking full effect – that I have tabled an amendment on the draft "identity card", saying that it is not the OCAM that must be responsible for saying at some point "Warning, a threatening person intends to leave the territory", but indeed the State Security. For me, the OCAM takes over the general analysis while the State Security monitors specific situations. However, when we talk about the bill that makes it possible for identity cards to be temporarily withdrawn, these are individual situations. It is in this sense that we tabled the amendment, which we resubmitted to the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u65	I think the minister will tell you what I can tell you. OCAM is and remains in its role of gathering information. Anything that could be lent to him as other intentions would not correspond to his mission, as desired by the government. The minister will certainly tell you a word about that. Mrs Matz, we have debated your amendment well in committee. It's clear we can't join you. This amendment concerned the necessary link to be established with local entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u67	This raises irrelevant questions that tend to compete with OCAM and State Security. These are not the same services. The aim of the OCAM is not to carry out investigations, but rather to gather information. The mission entrusted to him in the context of the project on the withdrawal of the identity card therefore corresponds to his vocation. We therefore believe that it is this body, not the State Security, which is responsible for this task. Mrs Matz, you are as "inflated" in plenary as you were in committee. Indeed, you dare to claim that we have not given sufficient resources to the Department of the Interior, even though they have been strengthened in the context of budgetary adjustment. You are aware of the budget lines for strengthening State Security and OCAM. You cannot deny these aspects. And when we know that under the previous Minister of the Interior, only 50 to 60 per cent of the appropriations that had been allocated to police policies have been actually used, I think you are still "inflated" to make such a statement. It's with respect that I say you've got nerves. Indeed, one can wonder whether the minister who was in charge of the Department of Interior before Mr Jambon did not use the means available to him to put in place police policies and, in particular, to acquire additional equipment. In any case, I can only regret it. I expect the Minister of the Interior at present in office not to repeat the mistake made by his predecessor and to use the resources made available to his department until the last eurocent, because we need them and we have to carry out the policies he wants, including the acquisition of new equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u68	I was not going to interrupt your discourse, Mr Ducarme, but the debate is fascinating. I am once again hearing the debate on who is responsible for security policy, especially with regard to the intelligence services. What is the role of State Security? What is the role of the OCAD? What is the role of military security and federal and judicial police? This debate must be clarified as a matter of urgency. These abuses, in which everyone opens the umbrella and unisono points out the need for additional resources, are also reflected in the daily safety policy. By way of derogation from what you have said up to two or three times, Mr Ducarme, it has not been the last year that this country has been confronted with terrorist threats and radicalism, which has been the case for two and a half years. For two and a half years now, I have been told by security services that there is a problem with resources, technical resources and capacity. Today, one of the drafts formulates an additional mission for the OCAD, in particular in the draft law of Minister Jambon. It would be good for the debate and certainly for the security services to ensure the safety of our citizens, to clarify the division of tasks and, above all, the extra 200 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of security policy, everyone is preoccupied with the 200 million or part of it. One tries to convince the other that he needs it the most. This leads to a bad atmosphere and conflicts between security services, with each other blacking out. For security policy, it would be good if the federal government were to clarify the amount of EUR 200 million. As far as the division of labour is concerned, I already stated myself on 17 January when the government announced its twelve measures. The most essential of these 12 measures are, in my view, the sixth, seventh and eighth, namely the Foreign Fighters Directive, the radicalism plan and the information exchange measure. There, cleaning is needed and the dots should be placed on the i. Only then will we take great steps forward. In the course of this debate, I would like to hear what progress has been made on these three measures, and I would also urge the government to clarify as quickly as possible the additional resources our security services need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u69	Mr President, I like the very theatrical way in which Mr Ducarme acts when he is a little upset. He is also showing some bad faith. The Minister of the Interior has acknowledged that he is considering things not in terms of new elements and recruitment because the budgets allocated to the police no longer allow to recruit as before, under the previous government. He's working on internal reorganizations. Mr Ducrame, you must give back to Caesar what is Caesar's and you will recognise with me that the previous government did not make a euro of savings on the internal budgets and Justice. I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u70	He didn't spend the money that was available!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u71	Perhaps you forget that elections were held in May and that a government then enters routine business and can no longer commit the budgets it wants. Be also in good faith! Let us try to be objective and not fall into slogans and big sentences!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u72	It's not about slogans...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u73	It is simply a matter of taking on a number of things. In the last legislature, you have ensured that justice and the interior are immunized from any economy. You were at the time, but you didn't do the same thing this time. The savings on these services are likely to be damaging, as you yourself said, especially for local police. The Minister of the Interior answered a question in the press about the number of overtime hours that the police and the federal police have to pay because of the fight against terrorism. We know that this will not suffice, we must simply assume!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u74	If it is a question of assuming responsibility, if it is a question of being a good one, I would like to assume the common responsibility that we have, even if it was behind your Minister of the Interior, to the point of informing all parliamentarians, so that they can see that on a number of budget lines, including investments, only 50 to 60 % of the appropriations allocated have been used. Why? There is always a good explanation to give, since you want to be of good account. You still deny that this government has made an effort to invest more in security, in OCAM. You deny the additional investments that the Minister of the Interior has indicated. You deny the appropriations we have provided for the payment of the military. I could continue the list, but the president wants me to finish. I can hear Mr Bonte's remark. I have a great deal of respect for your action on the ground. In conclusion, I would like to emerge from the little controversy that has taken place here. In general, except at a few levels, the exchanges have been constructive, so I ask you once again. We have talked about a number of measures. I would have liked to go into more detail on the measures taken by the Minister of Justice with regard to the return ban. I would have liked to speak a little more about Minister Franken's famous thirteenth step of no longer accepting as asylum seekers persons who pose a threat to terrorism. These are measures of common sense. There's no excess. There is a will to protect what we are, what the Belgians want to remain, what the Muslims in Belgium also want to be by living in complete serenity. In these measures, there is nothing excessive, there is nothing dangerous for our freedoms, for the respect of our freedoms, for our values. These are simply measures that we need. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, take your responsibilities, vote them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u75	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate in which we are discussing some drafts together. I believe that it is also appropriate for a debate such as this to commemorate all the victims of various extremist attacks, whether they fell in a museum in Brussels, in a large warehouse in Paris, on a beach in Tunisia or in a mosque in Kuwait or anywhere else in the world. We must not forget them. I also believe that, in a debate like this, we should pay tribute to the security and police forces and the people of justice who have already managed to prevent countless victims, in difficult and dangerous circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a time of tension. The terrorist attacks indicate that the time has passed when all this was a far-from-my-bed show. We must accept that we must learn to live in a society with risk derivatives. A risk-free society no longer exists. Our government was aware of this when it took office. The coalition agreement learns that, too. Before the attacks in Paris, part of the measures we are discussing today were prepared in that coalition agreement. This has to do with, for example, the disproportionate number of Syrian fighters in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, complex matters are not easy answers. If we look at the government's measures, they are, in fact, mainly directed towards repression. The problems show that a global and integrated approach is in place, for each of us, of ethnic or indigenous origin, and for all governments, including local and regional authorities. If a successful policy is to be pursued, it will require at least a basis, a common base of values and civil virtues, which may not be enforceable, but which each of us must accept and which must be respected in society. On that base of values is religious freedom. Religion gives not only rights, but also duties. One of these duties is that one also accepts, respects and even supports the freedom of religion of others. Only then, ladies and gentlemen, can the philosophical diversity which characterizes Western Europe be rich. We are not talking today about the matters for which the Communities are competent and which are at least related to the measures we are dealing with today. I am talking, for example, about the unqualified drop-out in education, about jobs, about housing for immigrants. Then I'm talking about detection of problems, aid and youth aid. I am talking about an open, inclusive society where coherence and links need to be strengthened. That is why my group is pleased that, for example, in the Flemish Parliament, across the borders of majority and opposition, a resolution was adopted with many measures on inclusion, prevention and protection. I have no knowledge of a similar initiative at another regional level, but I may have missed it. I invite the French-speaking fellow Members of this House to do the same at their regional level. After all, I am absolutely convinced that a chain approach is necessary to achieve success in matters. If we only take strict, repressive measures, then we mop up with the crane open and the success is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u76	I would like to interrupt you, Mr Verherstraeten, because you are right to argue for an integrated approach. The different levels of competence must assume their responsibilities. You know as well as I do that a resolution is one thing, and budgets and concrete measures are something else. I am therefore among those who are impatiently watching the 55 measures adopted in the Flemish Parliament also be supported in concrete and budgetary terms. After all, there is a lack of integrated approach. I will point out later in the debate that social follow-up, especially of radicalised minors, is sometimes flawed. There are many promises in the Flemish resolution, but there is nothing concrete at the moment. This brings me to the general problem, namely that we are faced with an incredibly difficult institutional problem. The Federal Government and the Minister for Security in particular should assume a coordinating role vis-à-vis the Communities and the Regions. After all, I am at least equally concerned about lethargy in a number of Brussels municipalities. To this end, this is the institutional problem, the Federal Minister for Cooperation with the Regions and the Communities. I would like to insist on speed, because we are two and a half years away. I particularly urge clear commitments, because you have missed nothing by not observing anything at the Flemish and Brussels levels, I fear. We have a problem of hierarchy of the source. You will remember that at some point I argued in favour of a government commissioner, whom I even mentioned by name, precisely to solve the problem to which you refer. You are right in your call for an integrated approach, but at the moment we are virtually nowhere in this area, that is my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u77	I have just said that some things may have escaped me in relation to the regional level, and I was, of course, talking about the level of the Brussels-Capital Region and the French Community. In any case, in the Flemish Parliament, we adopted a very precise resolution, I thought with your group's support. There are certain measures in the pipeline. The need to free up budgetary space for this, even in difficult times like this, goes without saying, and we agree on that. I also understand that, after the events in France, inter-ministerial conferences have been organised on which agreements have been reached on cooperation between the various authorities. It seems to me to be the logic of things that will be followed up over the next few months and years, because cooperation between the various authorities can be the only answer. In addition to being mayor, this should sound like music to you, cooperation between the regions and the federal level, but also with municipal authorities and certainly with local authorities where the problems arise. Your city is an example of this, Mr Bonte, as is many others. I would also like to refer to something up-to-date: I would like to address myself to the relevant Secretary of State and the relevant ministers. I read that it was recently decided to expel an imam from the country. Our group supports that, and I am glad that this has happened. In this country there is no place for hate preachers. Violence must be combated uncompromisingly, including verbal violence. I think this is a good decision. We must set an example of this being unacceptable to our society. Colleagues, we are aware that various measures and various designs that are before us today may pose a potential risk in a field of tension between security and privacy, between security and rights and freedoms. It goes without saying that our ministers must ensure that the vast majority of people, of whatever race, whatever state, whatever will, who believe in our society, are not curtailed in their rights and freedoms. We do not believe that this is necessary; in these designs freedom and privacy can be perfectly compatible with each other. The measures we have here are absolutely necessary. They fit in a changed social context. We need armed administration. Most of the measures are, of course, exceptional measures which are also necessary in exceptional circumstances. I am thinking of withdrawing the identity card in the event of serious indications that there is a desire to develop terrorist activities elsewhere, declaring nationality for more crimes, possibly even for a longer period of time, tightening asylum procedures in order to remove certain rights or not to grant them. These are exceptional measures, but I believe that exceptional measures are appropriate in exceptional circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two points. I address myself, among other things, to the Minister responsible for the Interior. A concern that we share concerns the multitude of data and information that we have at our disposal in the context of terrorism and extremism. The P Committee has pointed out that at present no body can accurately map this multitude of information. However, this is necessary in order to be able to act very efficiently. I believe that we must take care of this, as requested by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In a future policy paper, you need to provide the necessary margin to take certain measures in this area to increase centralisation in the diversity of data. That way we can act accurately and quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures that are before us today are not budgetaryly neutral. This requires resources for the Departments of Home Affairs, Justice, Defence, and Asylum and Migration. These measures should not be at the expense of the regular, regular, up-to-date and future policies of the various departments. We have already demonstrated this in the last budgetary control. Our group's question is to do the same in the current and future budget negotiations. If we are to develop security and make these measures feasible on the ground, the various departments must have the necessary budgetary resources so that this policy can be implemented effectively and can produce results. In any case, we wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u78	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the slightest need to hold a debate in terms of polemics, such as majority opposition, or this government did an excellent job and another government with a different composition and so on. I believe that when it comes to security, terror threats and attacks, there is one great constant in politics. That constant is what I describe as flame politics. When something happened in the world over the last ten or fifteen years, all the governments met, they called for urgent action and good intentions, and European meetings were held. After 9/11, after Madrid, after London, after Verviers. Suddenly one saw the light shining and one coined in good intentions. Every time it was said: yes, information must circulate better. Having the information is not the most important; it is especially important to share it with others, and that is not enough. Are the police and intelligence services of our Member States always equally involved? We are failing in this, within Europe and also, for example, in cooperation with the Americans. I have experience with a security department, and indeed one should visit the Americans and see how they look at how to share the information, and who they are prepared to share that information with. It is always after an attack that people take for new insights. A second constant, Mr President, is that we must guard our principles. Every time something happens, there are, of course, meetings where we excel in good intentions, but where there is also a tendency to use some violence against the principles and pillars on which our rule of law is based by saying that we now need radical measures, that we will announce cases that may not be able to withstand the review of the rule of law. This is seen, for example, in the United States of America. Ask them what they think today about the famous Patriot Act and what they learned in Guantanamo. Look also at the United Kingdom where measures have been announced to deprive people of their freedom for 24, 48 or 72 hours by saying: you are suspected of terrorism, so we are locking you up. These measures were free-running measures without any judicial review being carried out. This is a second constant for which I would like to warn you today. Never make the mistake that terrorists really want us to commit, in particular: to make concessions on democratic values. We would be delighted if they found that we were to undermine or test our own system and our own democratic values, Mr Verherstraeten. Does that mean I'm pleading for naivety? No. We must do what is necessary, but everything we do must be balanced and balanced. There is indeed a right to security, but there is also a right to privacy. Politics must also dare to say to the public that there is no absolute right to security and that, in the field of police, security and intelligence services, a government cannot be manned or developed in such a way as to ensure that such things do not stand a chance in our hands. However, everything acceptable in a democratic state must be done to minimise the risk. I believe that Parliament should consider this today and give its opinion on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u79	I'm surprised at your introduction. You make a broad overview of the flame-flammation policy all over the world. If anything has become clear, it is that the government took twelve measures the day after Verviers. They would join in a few weeks later, mid-February. However, today we are still debating some of these measures. In my view, this is a textbook example of a flare policy. What surprises me even more in your introduction is that you rightly warn against throwing overboard some of the principles of our rule of law in crisis situations. I really wonder if you have read Minister Jambon's draft whereby only the executive without judicial review is allowed to take the identity card of persons and limit their travel space. We have discussed for a long time a proposal whereby, in the case of minors, there is always a judicial review before withdrawing identity cards. The draft government decrees that the OCAD shall issue an opinion and that the Minister of the Interior shall act independently of the judicial review. That's the opposite of the plea you're making here. Of two things one: either you mean what you say and then you urgently need to amend the draft, or you need to think about what you have just come to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u80	I very much liked Mr Dewael's introduction. I will keep it and make it clear during the debate that we will have during the transposition of the new directive on the retention of Internet data. Remember, Mr Dewael, about a year and a half ago, this House was voting as one man, including your party, a law transposing a European directive which, in the meantime, was broken by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which ensured that all electronic data (telephonic, internet and others) were kept by gsm and internet operators. The meaning of your introduction, which I fully share, dealt with the question of proportionality between the fundamental right to security and the fundamental right to privacy, among other things. However, let us be careful because, in parallel with this issue of the massive collection of data that I have just mentioned, there is also an extremely powerful issue and conflict between two visions of security. The vision defended today by the State Security says that we are trying to control a series of problematic individuals, to tap them, to verify their actions. This is how most European intelligence services, including State Security in Belgium, operate today. But there are ambitions, especially from the army's intelligence service. In fact, ten days ago, General Testelmans said that it was necessary to tap fibre optic cables and apply what the US intelligence services, the NSA, were doing first: general surveillance. It seems to me that you are denouncing this kind of practice, Mr. Dewael! I draw your attention to the fact that today, in our state, there are ambitions within our intelligence services in relation to this widespread surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u81	In your opinion, Mr Bonte, these measures would be taken by the board, without any judicial review. The draft law clearly does not exclude judicial review. It is quite logical that a decision by the Minister of the Interior should be brought before the Council of State. That makes a lot of sense. It's in the fucking Constitution. It is quite logical that one can also refer to the civil courts. It is not because it is not explicitly stated in the draft that a judicial test is being carried out, that that judicial test cannot be carried out. It is clearly not excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u82	I would like to make that point, Mr President. I think it is right that an introduction should be made to say that we want to go beyond the limits of the party political majority and opposition, but then Mr Bonte immediately says that things have gone wrong now and that things have been different in the past. I can testify, Mrs Temmerman, that during the period 2001-2006 the phenomenon I have just described was always the same, in the sense that the government came together, decreed measures and decided that there was an urgent need for action. They also came together at European level. I invite you to take note of the list of measures taken following the attacks in Madrid and London. We will then both see that many of the measures announced at the time and solemnly promised at European level by all the Heads of State or Government have been implemented, because if the dust has fallen and the attention is slackening, it will, of course, become a little more difficult. There were promises of a solemn exchange of information that forced Member States to amend their legislation, but if one looked at it a year or two later, it turned out not to be so. Let me give you a random example. Following the attacks in London and Madrid, the French Government said that there was an urgent need to do business. If the measures agreed at European level were implemented in the internal legal order one year or two years later, that was not the case. I've just described a phenomenon, a certain flare policy. We are being chased by a public opinion asking the government to provide some sort of absolute guarantee of security. Well, it would be a good thing to say that we can do anything we want, but that we cannot guarantee an absolute right to security. Please do not make a game of that if this government had done this or that after Verviers, when it used to do so differently. That's a constant. I say that quietly and remotely, without any polemic urge. Ensuring citizens' rights, ensuring that administrative authorities cannot go too far and ensuring that judicial review is always provided for, that is exactly what each of us must bear in mind in the vote tomorrow. Perhaps you think these designs go too far in that. As far as I am concerned, I believe that all the measures taken here in relation to passports and identity cards can be completed. That's for everyone to decide for themselves. I come to my second point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u83	Mr Dewael, you just referred to measures taken in the United Kingdom and in the United States, which, in your view, I agree with you. You referred, among other things, to the 72-hour arrest period in Great Britain. I don't know if you've read Minister None's justice plan correctly. Indeed, it proposes, by a member of your party, that the time limit for arrest may be extended to 72 hours before an investigating judge takes a decision. I assume you will oppose this measure, which will perhaps be included in the second potpourri Act? It is essential to pay close attention to such measures, and I agree with you in that regard, but I warn you that they are in the justice plan. So I am also counting on your support in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u84	Mr Van Hecke, they are never included in the general terms you have just described. You should also check each measure for its specific context. Once again, when I speak of the United Kingdom, I am actually talking about an administrative measure. It does not even involve an investigating judge or any other judicial authority. When I talk about the Patriot Act, we have seen other excesses, which I wonder if has contributed to safety in that country. I do not think that this question can always be answered positively. Do some of these things need to be reviewed? I think so. I come to a number of structural measures which I believe are fundamental in the fight against radicalism and terrorism and in the fight against crime in general. Those are the measures we have taken over the period 2006. In this context, I am referring specifically to a body that is put forward in the press as a possible point of criticism, in particular the OCAD. I said just now that the most important thing is not to have information, but to ensure that the information can circulate. Apart from the majority and opposition, I am addressing you in particular, Mrs Onkelinx. We have effective police and intelligence services in our country. However, I have to think of a sad episode in our country, the Dutroux period, during which the question arose as to whether one police department knew what the other was doing. We wanted the certainty, or at least the maximum guarantee, because there is never any certainty that the information available to a police department, at local or federal level or in an intelligence service, was brought together at an information intersection where an analysis of the threat that might exist could be made. The latter immediately makes it clear that such an information crossroads can never be an intelligence service in itself. It can never be an actor on the ground, but a crossroads of information where only analyses must be carried out, and we must only see that the legal obligation to collect that information there is fulfilled. Mr President, I have no tangible evidence to say that this is not happening, but I am not entirely sure. I know the culture of police and intelligence a little bit. Those are sometimes tough boys and girls, who know what the law says, but who wonder why they should share their good information with one or the other. So it's an ongoing mission. As attention weakens because terrorism gets a little out of the mental mind, that old culture sometimes gets stronger and one starts playing one's own game again. Parliament as a supervisory body must constantly monitor this, but also the government through the supervision it has over the police and intelligence services. We must be very vigilant about this. I would like to make it clear that the OCAD cannot be a player on the ground, but its role is fundamental. Mrs Onkelinx, we have had all the trouble in the world to explain to the foreign police and intelligence services what the OCAD means precisely because they assumed that information transmitted to Belgium would begin to circulate immediately and reach the central information intersection. Their conclusion was, therefore, to stop giving information to our country, otherwise they would have lost it or had to share it. So it was a very annoying task to make it clear abroad that this is the model that one should have everywhere. After all, what we had then in Belgium with OCAD should also exist in the European Union by enlargement. However, we are a long way from that. Explain that to the French, the British and the Americans. Rather, they will have the reflex to share with us Belgians as little as possible for the reasons I have just described. A third element is the strength or capacity of our intelligence and police services. There's a few things I need to get off my chest. On the one hand, we are the country with the highest number of police officers per capita, on the other hand, after the end of the events in Verviers, the Minister of the Interior must testify that some of those services, such as the Federal Computer Crime Union and the DSU, are totally undermanned. The Minister said that the material available to those people is undersized and that they had to rent or borrow material I don't know how that was practically organized abroad. Perhaps this should be evaluated in the light of the overall police reform. In the key tasks debate, this should be given the opportunities you advocate. Some of the improper police tasks may well be observed by others, for example stewards at cycling races and rock festivals. I am also thinking of the postmen who could be better employed to carry out the orders of the Minister of Justice; the public prosecutors. These are all tasks that the police are wondering today why they should carry out. Well, anyone who says A should also say B: with the capacity that one can free up there, it should be possible, even with a constant budget and a constant amount, to invest more in the services that one wants to strengthen, such as the Federal Computer Crime Unit and the ICT services. Same for the security of the state. I see those people walking around in the vicinity of politicians I assume to be the subject of serious threats. Is that the main task of the people of State Security? Should they not rather be involved in the analysis of safety risk derivatives? Is the shadowing of politicians and foreign Heads of State or Government not rather a task for the police? Should state security continue to do so? I think it is necessary to rewrite the whole of these services. The key tasks debate in September and October must be given its full right, Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u85	Dear colleague, thank you for your very interesting speech. I support everything you have said about the reaction we have had every time in the face of events. At the time, we were both at the posts of the Interior and Justice. As you said, it seems to me that we have been able to answer. Remember that at the time, there was no status of State Security officers. We have created statutes, we have invested in State Security, we have doubled the staff, we have created the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), we have created and strengthened the first anti-terrorist laws. There is no doubt that these measures need to be continuously improved, and that is no problem for me. Where I disagree is when, while improving them, we are endangering some of our fundamental principles. I give one example among others: the crime of intent poses a real problem to me as a lawyer and as a democrat. I'm going back to what you're saying about local police and the police in general. On the ground, we hear complaints about the lack of resources. You say that's what we hear, but at the same time there are new needs. You talked about cybercrime, and so on. You're absolutely right. And you say that, depending on the means available, we should also try to work on police missions. We have been saying this for a long time: how can these missions be optimised? I am speaking here because it has been a few weeks since my colleague Nawal Ben Hamou, in particular, called for a debate in the Committee on the Interior on this optimisation. So I take this opportunity to insist, as you are here, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that this debate be held as soon as possible. In the field, municipalists, in particular, are confronted with questions from their services which they do not know how to answer because, in order to be able to respond to them, choices would need to be made in the missions. I am convinced, certainly like you, Mr Dewael, that the police can be discharged from administrative tasks so that they can move towards what is absolutely indispensable, especially in the period we are living in, when radicalism and terrorism are the subject of the greatest attention of all our services and call upon all our fellow citizens. My remarks are intended to support my colleague's request and to question the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u86	In my view, it is not just a question of our colleague's request. I would like to refer to what Mr Gabriels argued a few weeks ago and does so regularly in committee. Mr Van Quickenborne spoke about this last week. Your replacement, Mr Vandeput, replied. Mrs Onkelinx, let us not think that the fight against radicalism and terrorism is only a matter for specialised services. In fact, whatever information she collects is important. I have made a plea for the proper exchange of information because what a district agent finds in a particular district, banally proposed, must be taken equally seriously and transmitted to the federal echelon. That is where it must be the subject of proper analysis. This is as important to me as the security of the State, which is, of course, also the point of contact for mainly foreign intelligence services. The whole of the information needs to be brought together. My point is that we should not interfere with two things. It was mentioned at the beginning, but if there are any difficulties with the OCAD, we have to face them. The role of determining the threat, making the analysis of the threat, is a task for the OCAD. This can never be the subject of political arbitration. This must be done by the people responsible. It is up to politics to ensure that all those actors in the police, intelligence services, military intelligence services, customs and so on, sit around the table and consult each other. Politics must not replace the OCAD, because if politics has to make the threat analysis, we have left for the adventure. My second plea is still my creed in more Europe, including in this area. Look at the difficulties with the passer-by control. How long has this file been dragging on? We cannot control it within the European Union. The Americans are asking us to take action, but in Europe we are failing, not even in the European Parliament, to provide an answer. If Europe does not succeed, it must, if necessary, be multilateral or bilateral. We can't just sit and wait. We are debating Greece tomorrow, but if it is not possible to do so by 28, it must be through enhanced cooperation, and the parties or partners who want to move forward can do so, and they must honour a form of enhanced cooperation. The passer control is effectively one of the gaps that can break us down sooner or later. Mr President, those were a few points of attention. I'm sure I've spoken too long. Mr Van Quickenborne will zoom in on a number of very interesting practical examples, including from Kortrijk. For my group, these were the points of attention. We shall vote for these government proposals with enthusiasm tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u87	Thank you, Mr Dewael. For your information, Mr. Van Quickenborne has four minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had an interesting debate and we have been able to discuss the texts thoroughly and freely in committee. We also have excellent reports. I think they are very important for the later application. We can have a very global debate on how to combat radicalisation and violent radicalism, but at the same time we must analyse the legislative texts before us in a very concrete and thorough manner and ensure that we legislate properly. I am going back to January 2015 when many fellow Members have already done so when the government came up with a twelve-point plan very quickly after the attack in Verviers. We had an interesting discussion back then. I cannot get the impression that this twelve-point plan was quickly put together when they came to committee. There were some weird things in there. Fortunately, many corrections have already been made. I would like to repeat briefly what I said at the time: whatever action is taken, in a democratic rule of law, one must always remain very critical. In that sense, I agree with what Patrick Dewael says, namely that we must pay attention to flame-flammation legislation. That is what it was looking forward to at the time. The first question to be asked is whether our present arsenal of laws is not sufficient. In every incident, many politicians, ministers and governments feel the urge to make new legislation quickly, while there is often a lot of legislation that is applicable and can be used. That is the first question to be asked. Secondly, if new legislation is needed, will it be effective? Will it make society safer, will it scare off perpetrators to commit such acts? Thirdly, are the measures proportionate? That has already been mentioned, and it is very essential. Do we take sufficient account of privacy and fundamental principles of our rule of law? That is also very important. In this matter, however, the present design is only the final piece. Federally, we decide on measures relating to justice, security and police, but in fact that is the end if it is too late. In fact, we need to pay much more attention to what comes before, to prevention. This is not our task, but mainly the task of the Communities and the Regions. It is therefore very important that they also do their job, because the better prevention policy will be in the future, the less repressive policy will be necessary. I am therefore pleased that you have also emphasised this, Mr Verherstraeten, but would like to point out that the Flemish government agreement originally contained nothing about prevention policy on radicalism. There was indeed a committee after that which made a number of recommendations, which we also endorsed. That is a good package, but the Flemish government had not even noticed the problem in its formation. Fortunately, that has been corrected and I hope, like many others, that everything will now be put into practice very quickly. In five months, a lot has changed. Take a look at the present design, which is mainly about nationality. This was one of the important measures put forward in January. With a lot of poeha, the government has announced that it would make the cancellation of nationality much stricter. They were also intended to be extended to people with dual nationality, who were born in Belgium and who had acquired Belgian nationality by birth. It has been warned immediately, because that is not so obvious. It may sound nice, but in a democratic rule of law, it may cause problems, especially in the light of, for example, a judgment of the 2009 Constitutional Court. I have to say that the government has carried out a thorough investigation into this and has finally quite rightly dropped the slopes. Originally, that was the communication. It wouldn't have been a good measure. I don't need to repeat that. It might have been counterproductive if such a far-reaching measure had been imposed. He probably wouldn't have held up after all. However, I would like to comment on the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State has analysed the revocation very thoroughly and makes a number of fundamental comments on the system contained in the draft law today. After all, what's left? The only change that has actually been made concerns the ten-year period. It is dropped in the event of terrorist offences. In this way, three systems of revocation or loss of nationality are actually introduced. The Council of State says that this needs attention. On the one hand, there is the loss of nationality method in the event of serious shortcomings in the obligations of Belgian citizenship on the other hand, there are Articles 23/1 and 23/2. These need to be better coordinated, because they are a bit mixed up. The government has not taken any initiatives on this, it has not responded to that remark. Another comment concerns the difference introduced between, on the one hand, terrorist offences in which the declaration of nationality can be pronounced without the ten-year condition and, on the other hand, a series of other crimes, which are subject to that ten-year condition. In this respect, the Council of State has made it clear that it is necessary to explain why this difference is made, all the more so because there are crimes that are subject to very serious penalties, and that, after 10 years, Belgian nationality can no longer be lost, while other crimes, with lower penalties, can continue to be punished. I can only say that the government has not taken that point into account. Apart from the fundamental discussion about the appropriateness of this measure, I believe that this could give rise to legal consequences. The Constitutional Court will be able to decide on this in the future and may find that the distinction that has been made cannot be justified. We will have to wait and see what the Constitutional Court will do in that regard. I would like to raise this point, because this is a fundamental point made by the Council of State which has not been taken into account. I would like to come back to the specific draft concerning the withdrawal of the identity card. Here, too, the original model, Minister, has been brought back. I remember very well, at the first meeting in January, that it was suggested that an alternative card could be issued in the event of breaches of public policy and the like. At that time, we warned to pay attention. We must ensure that such a system does not act stigmatisingly. If someone's identity card was withdrawn and subsequently it turns out that nothing is wrong, then someone has been stigmatized wrongly. That remark has been taken into account. I would like to thank the government for taking many of these comments into account, because it has come to a system that will not be stigmatising. There will be work on a document that is known and that many people possess, namely a document that can be obtained when an identity card is applied for or lost. Then I want to talk about breaches of public policy. It was very dangerous, Minister, to use this as a criterion. Something is very soon a breach of public policy. I think you might have been accused of it, too, in an old life, if you were on the street. I am sure that many of my fellow Members here have already been arrested by the police for breaches of public order. If this were to be taken as a criterion for withdrawing the identity card, half of this Parliament would have lost its identity card once. I do not understand how this came about in the twelve-point programme and how no one saw it as a danger, but it is to your credit, Minister, that you have adapted this and that there is now an explicit reference to terrorist offences. It is also important that it is clear how long the withdrawal can take. That wasn't originally determined. A clear answer has now been given, and a clear maximum duration has now been set. What is also very important is that there is an effective means of redress. We have discussed this for a long time. First there was a piste with some kind of legal endorsement. It was abandoned after fierce criticism from the Council of State. Now the normal system is followed, which can be challenged by the Council of State. There are also some comments to be made. We have therefore discussed this for a long time. Firstly, the Council of State is not the body with the most experience to assess whether there really is a sufficient terrorist threat when certain people may go abroad. Anyway... Secondly, I would like to highlight the delicateness of this procedure. It has immediately been shown that the law on formal justification will not apply. It is said that the exception will have to be invoked. In other words, someone whose identity card is withdrawn may not see in the decision the explicit reasons and arguments for it. They want to call on the exemption provision in the law. That makes it very difficult to appeal. If someone wishes to appeal but does not know the arguments, that person is having a very difficult time defending himself. I would like to draw attention to this because we are balancing the rights of the defence here. I refer to the whole case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice, which says that there must be a balance between the defence of the interests of the State, ensuring that sensitive information does not just come out, on the one hand, and the defence of the person concerned, who must have sufficient elements to include his defence, on the other hand, This is a very delicate point. The case law of the Council of State, and possibly of the Constitutional Court, will have to determine what can and cannot be done. In any case, a very delicate balance is introduced here. We must pay sufficient attention to this. We can also ask many questions about the application. How will we determine which areas are involved? One will not work with lists, I know, that is clear. However, there are many situations in which that question may arise. Let me repeat the example. Kurdish-Turkish youths from here leave for Kurdistan to fight with the Kurdish army against IS. In principle, this is also covered by the application of this legislation. Will one say that his struggle is legitimate, but the other that his struggle in that country or in that region, in that group, is not legitimate? This is going to be a very difficult consideration. That is why I believe it is particularly important that the preparatory work and the dossier prepared by the OCAD, which will be the first to carry out the analysis, should be carried out properly. We all know that the functioning of the OCAD is not always ideal. I refer not only to what was in the newspapers today, but also to previous reports, which often criticized the fact that people were on lists and sometimes got very difficult to get rid of. I think we should pay a lot of attention to that. The delicateness of the work and the quality of the work must be there, otherwise we run the risk of arbitrariness. I want to end by returning to the considerations we have to make. We must see the measure as a whole and we must take account of the objectives and balances. For us, these balances are not quite in place yet. We have asked a lot of questions about the application and we still have a lot of questions about its applicability. We will therefore not approve these texts. We will abstain, but we want to continue to cooperate constructively to ensure that the balance is struck, not only here but also in the other parliaments. I repeat that we think it is very important that a great deal of attention should be paid to prevention. There is a great deal of energy to be put into it, as well as in cooperation with the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u89	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I see that Mr Dewael has left the hemisphere, but I would like to start with what he has also underlined, in particular that we may never know a society with an absolute guarantee of security. There was once a Minister of the Interior who said in this gallery that it is almost impossible to protect a society from individuals who are willing to give their lives to destroy another's life. I'm afraid this is true. Let us all together, and still with the inspiration that we, both the majority and the opposition, have a responsibility in it, ensure that the risks of incidents and terrorism are minimised. I will not go back to the definition of flame politics, I have just done so. In order to remain in Mr Dewael's metaphor, let us assume that the dust has now gone down and that we can see what has been achieved. Minister, I repeat what I said in my speech. The last thing we need is some kind of hostility, struggle, pursuit between security forces. Responsible group leaders even come here to defend the OCAD and tell us how much resources it needs to get. That must be true, but, with my feet in the safety problem, I hear a little too much zeal and sounded like 200 million, criticizing the other and not enough self-criticism. The government must be aware that the first yard to be completed is under way by the government, the plan R, the foreign fighters directive, the exchange of information. This is still an essential yard and I hope that there will be a form of pacification rather than competition between security services very quickly, so that everyone knows what resources are being provided and what the task is. After the debate here and after reading an article on the subject in De Standaard one can ask whether the OCAD really does what it was set up for. It seems to me that too often it calls for the lack of resources to justify one's own failure. Minister, in response to the 12 measures taken at the beginning of January, my group said that the R plan, the foreign fighters directive, is important, but that the strengthening of local police and local authorities is equally important. It has been said here once again that the issue requires an integrated approach. The OCAD and the Security of the State are nothing without the local police, without the man in the street, the district agent, whom Mr Dewael spoke about. These are key players in tackling that security risk. Today we have to note that the government has not acted on our suggestion and, as a reason, gives up the limited budgets. Of course, budgets are limited, but I have listened very carefully to Mr Verherstraeten, security also means investment, choices. Mr Verherstraeten, you have listed those choices and you will. In any case, the government will have to prove its willingness to implement what is ahead of it on the basis of the budgets allocated. Allow me to add two more words. I am concerned about this morning's statement by Minister for the Budget Jamar that of the EUR 200 million released, it may be necessary to provide EUR 100 million to pay outstanding invoices from the Justice Department. If that is true, I fear that our political system is not credible to our security services, who are counting on us. Which brings me to the current designs. We had a constructive discussion in committee. The question is whether the proposals are effective in combating the terrorist threat. I am not convinced of this, because in the meantime I have found out what radicalism is. Anyone who is convinced that he or she must assume responsibility for the establishment of a caliphate or that martyrdom or death in the battle is the highest good, as I have heard from a minor, cannot be stopped by threatening to take away his or her nationality. After all, he wants to be there and if necessary he will die there. That is the power of radicalism. By the way, I would like to express my appreciation of Secretary of State Theo Francken, who makes it clear that an inflammatory and hateful discourse to young Muslims does not belong in our country. I think he is making the right decision in this respect. In any case, how can we reconcile such an approach with a draft law aimed at stopping the radicalised imams by withdrawing the identity card or passport? On the other hand, I believe that it is a legitimate decision to keep them in the country, provided that they are followed up by the police and the judiciary and at the social level. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. I sometimes experience that people for whom the OCAD indicates a high level of threat are released because of procedural errors and then suddenly disappear in Brussels. Sometimes such people with an anklet show up in Vilvoorde, when our police are not aware of it, because Halle-Vilvoorde does not have a courthouse, Minister of Justice. In other words, today we do not have the guarantee that everyone will be properly followed, not the radicalised, nor the returners. That's the naked truth and she's hurting us both. As long as we do not have that guarantee, it seems to me that it is really dangerous to stop everyone mordicus. Perhaps we should follow the example of Secretary of State Francken in certain cases and ensure that we have lost them. We should perhaps also make it clear to them that they do not belong in our society. This brings me to the major challenge referred to by other colleagues, namely cooperation agreements and protocols. Where are they? Where is the cooperation between the Flemish Community and the federal government to ensure, for example, the follow-up of young radicalised minors? However, that should be the logic itself. There is no guarantee in this respect, as there is no cooperation protocol at this stage. Or still, where is the cooperation agreement on the recognition of mosques? The entry into force of this draft requires cooperation agreements, as the Minister said. Only then can anyone who is convinced that one has to die for the establishment of the caliphate, and may also use force, be stopped at departure. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that a recent analysis in the United States shows that more than half of the terrorist attacks are committed by persons who have never left the country. This is about the homegrown terrorists. Recent history in Europe has shown us that this can also be the case in our country. There is no need to go to Syria or Iraq to commit terrorist attacks here. Stopping people without guaranteeing that they will be followed up remains a problem. I have understood from the debates in committee that the Minister will allow the entry into force of the draft law to depend on the cooperation agreements. Minister, I am aware of the complexity of our country, because there is no hierarchy between the different levels of policy, but I hope that you will succeed in crossing the Brussels-Capital Region alongside the French and Flemish communities. These agreements must contain clear commitments on follow-up and prevention. I would also like to say this here, living and working on the edge of Brussels: our Flemish, European and Belgian capitals have been given a reputation abroad for being a very dangerous and vulnerable area, a breeding ground for radicalism, which poses a terrorist threat. Minister, I would like to draw your particular attention to what is happening in the capital. If we in the Edge, in Vilvoorde, try carefully to follow radicalised persons and returned Syrian fighters, they have one refuge: Brussels. They literally tell the district agent to leave for Brussels. Then we lose them very often, not only us but also the security of the State and the OCAD. That's very disturbing. I hope you're trying to take that problem seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the doubt and the lack of assurance that there will be an accurate follow-up, we will abstain from the vote. Mr President, allow me to raise once again the amendment that we have tabled. After all, I would like to try to convince you, Mr Verherstraeten, to take part in our proposal, which consists of: 'I am explicitly addressing you, Mr Verherstraeten, because I have listened carefully to your plea for an integrated approach 'that a mayor, at the explicit request of parents of minors, can withdraw identity papers very quickly, automatically informing the prosecutor and giving the youth protection authorities a mandate from the prosecutor within 24 hours.' This is an example of an integrated approach, in a domain where today is failing, in the sense that for some reason the youth protection authorities are working far too slow for minors who wish to leave. They face a kind of cultural threshold towards the group of the most vulnerable young people. This measure would respond to Mr Dewael's plea for judicial review and would enable the responsible authorities, namely the juvenile courts, to impose autonomous measures on young people. In doing so, we would be able to protect minors who respond to the lure of violent jihadism. Today too many have already left and unfortunately there have been injured or killed. I'll finish with five punctual cases. First of all, Minister, cut as quickly as possible the EUR 200 million appropriations released, so that we can clarify what can and cannot be done and what the expectations are. At the same time, try to define who has what task. This can undoubtedly be done in an amended plan R and the foreign fighters directive. Secondly, there is already consensus on this point. The dust has gone down, but there is actually little progress. Strengthen the local levels. Strengthen police areas such as Molenbeek and Vilvoorde, where there are fireplaces of radicalism. Bet on that. Everyone is convinced that local levels need to be strengthened. Mrs Milquet had already decided in the previous government that there should be a radicalism official in the cities facing this misery. It has not come further than that to our regret. I think those local levels should be strengthened. The third point is related to the second. Cooperation agreements must also lead to a coherent approach. Unfortunately, with a resolution alone, we are not getting there. Fourthly, I would once again like to draw particular attention to the Brussels-Capital Region, which seems to be a very easy place to remain protected from anything related to succession. A fifth point relates to the emotions I experience as mayor when a minor dies as a result of crazy short-term decisions. Take another look at the amendment that we have tabled. I think it's essential. Minister, there is a spirit of constructive cooperation, that is how I feel. This also means that there should be some openness to opposition proposals by the majority. I haven't really been able to experience that in the last few weeks, to my regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u90	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me address Mr Ducrame, who, in conclusion of his speech, has asked the opposition to take his responsibilities. I can tell you, Mr Ducrame, that the CDH will take on its responsibilities, as it has indicated in committee in all the discussions on terrorism. That is how my party will vote in plenary on the government's bills, as it did in committee, even if it wants to make a small reservation. In the Justice and Home Affairs Committees of 15 January 2015, we said that we would be with the government whenever it took measures to combat terrorism. It is therefore quite logical that we should behave today in accordance with what we had announced. On 5 January, together with Mr. Georges Dallemagne, I tabled three bills, which are also included in the government's texts. However, we would have hoped that this issue would, as you mentioned, be the subject of a national union. Unfortunately, none of the very constructive amendments that we tabled aimed at improving the texts before us – it was therefore not a question of challenging their objective, but rather of putting in place more effective procedures in view of the reality we are facing – was accepted by the majority in place. That's why our feeling of bitterness is great. However, that will not prevent us from voting on this bill because we share the objectives set out in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u91	Mrs Matz, there was no negative spirit in the amendments you tabled. You have been answered in a non-negative way on each of them. You want to impose the link to the information approach with regard to the mayors rather than the transmission at the level of the OCAM. I gave you the reason I wasn't in favour of it. On each of your amendments, we have had calm discussions. The idea on our part was not to reject the amendments in principle, but because we had differences of opinion on their content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u92	I may have the opportunity to come back to this because there was not just the two amendments that you are talking about. There were others, we'll discuss them later. I laid them down again, because they seem essential to me. We have spoken a little more agitatedly than now of the policy of the previous government. I am surprised at some of the comments made, notably by Mr Vuye. He said nothing had been done under the previous government. He added that Mrs Milquet should not be relied upon. Perhaps it is also to forget the words of the Coordinator for the fight against terrorism at European level, Gilles de Kerchove, who recently met with the Prime Minister. For him, Belgium's action at European level had been highlighted and noted by a number of observers as pioneering. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs smiles for having taken part in it! This is not just Joëlle Milquet's action, but the previous government, which took a number of steps very quickly in the face of the departures to Syria. I have before me a note to the Kern of 17 April 2013, containing some 20 measures already taken and some 10 proposals on a whole series of issues. On the other hand, we had the opportunity to discuss it earlier, security budgets were largely immunized. This allowed for the recruitment of police officers. I have heard colleagues say that this is not only the case of super-specialised services, but also of the police on a daily basis. We have also had the opportunity to mention it several times in recent weeks. I know that Mr. Ducrame is not very happy when I say that, but it's no big deal. On 15 January, there was a strong willingness to move forward quickly. I remember that the deadline had been extended by the end of February at the latest. All the texts submitted to our vote today had to be available in committee. We note that they finally arrived five months later, far too late in our view. Of course, the government's 12 actions are being implemented. We realize that the projects voted on are part of this action. We look forward to further actions that we look forward to. We have had the opportunity to discuss it several times with the Minister of the Interior. I come to the famous circular on returning persons, with the division of labour between the various departments. Mr. Ducrame spoke about it earlier. This circular existed. The Minister of the Interior wants to change it, it's a good thing, but she's been waiting. I come to the bills that are before us. I'll start with the one that deals with the removal of ID cards. We have had lengthy discussions on this text. It was the subject of a bill that we also tabled with Mr.Dallemagne. We had taken the judicial route to remove that identity card. Instead, the Council of State advocated an administrative procedure. For the judges of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, this is not a task of the judiciary. The administrative route has therefore been followed. We are ready to go back to what we imagined. However, we have three reservations - and this is the subject of our amendments - about the OCAM, about state security. The discussion is open to everyone's responsibility and the reason for these choices. Our approach focused on State Security in gathering information on individual situations. This was the subject of the first amendment. The second amendment was intended to remind, as Mr Bonte has just said, of the importance of local authorities in the procedure to combat radicalism. We regret that in this withdrawal procedure, a greater role is not given to local authorities. In our view, it is the former who are able to collate a whole series of information. We do not ask them to process these data themselves, but to transmit them to the Minister of the Interior, who will submit them for analysis to the body of his choice. We regret that this importance cannot be given to local authorities. This would not make much difference to the draft, except to materialize in a text the role which is already theirs in fact. When a sports club, when parents want to report a young person who wants to leave, the first authority they turn to is the local authorities. A third point is a problem in this bill. We are talking about those who join a territory at war. This does not mean that they want to participate in a terrorist group. We had tabled an amendment to clarify that the person concerned is travelling to a territory to fight in a terrorist group. We voted in favour of this text in committee despite the rejection of our amendments and our group will support it. The Justice bill has three objectives. First, the deprivation of nationality. It is probably the bill that caused the most ink to flow with some ignorance of what currently exists. I would remind you that there are certain conditions in our right to surrender. In the draft submitted by the Minister of Justice, these conditions do not change. It is not extended to generations. This had been the justified fear of a number of protagonists. The categories of persons covered are not extended, the scope of the offences is extended. In the deprivation of nationality there are now new terrorist offences, such as recruitment, propaganda, etc. As such, it fully meets the objective that we are pursuing with Mr Georges Dallemagne, by filing a text at the beginning of January. We had chosen a slightly stronger option than that of the government, which was to say that in some cases there would be automatic deprivation of nationality. The Council of State warns us against automatic revocation because we risk depriving some people of rights and freedoms. We are following the opinion of the Council of State on this point. I repeat, we will vote for this text. The second objective was to penalize those who went to fight abroad. We had also taken another legal path, that of the activation of the Mercenary law. The legal path you have taken seems more secure, particularly in international humanitarian law. We can only subscribe to the extension of the wiretapping requested by the intelligence services. We do not have any comments to make on the draft Consular Code, which is the counterpart to that on identity cards. He is fully respectful of what we wanted for effective action. We voted in favour of this draft in committee and will do the same in plenary tomorrow. The project on the withdrawal of refugee status remains. On this point, we will abstain. Why? I have argued our decision in committee. Mr Ducrame, perhaps on these amendments we could have been followed. Indeed, the concept of a particularly serious infringement is far too broad, even if it is included in a European directive. I was simply proposing to specify "offences under Title I of the Criminal Code". Who are we aiming for? Persons who use refugee status to commit terrorist acts. Let us parallel the deprivation of nationality and address the terrorist offences provided for in the Criminal Code. That would be clear and clear. We'd know what we're talking about and we wouldn't give a sense of blur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u93	I am listening carefully to Mrs Matz, and I am hearing him about the amendment that is now being resubmitted, which is intended to replace the word 'offence' with 'particularly serious crime'.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u94	No, if you remember, I had two amendments. One main purpose was to replace "particularly serious offence" with "articles etc. of the Criminal Code", which are terrorist offences. It is said that this applies to terrorist offences, whether they are new or old. The same applies to the deprivation of nationality. As the lawyers would say in the alternative, if my main amendment were rejected, there were, if you remember, the words 'particularly serious crime' in the directive. I asked why the notion of "particularly serious crime" was not retained and that the term "offence" was chosen. As for the main amendment, which I resubmitted, he asked for clarification as to the meaning of the term "offence": do we want to target those who are going to fall under the cover of a terrorist offence? Why are they not clearly targeted by referring to the articles of the Penal Code that concern them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u95	I had pointed out at that time that the Penal Code does not contain all these nuances of "particularly serious". This is even the first article of the Criminal Code: offences are classified as crimes, offences and contraventions. For each, the definition is the penalty applicable to him, it is not the qualifier of particularly, excessively, extremely serious. I believe that the generic term "offence" should be retained by reference to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u96	That's what I do. I did not resubmit the amendment in the alternative. I have re-tabled the one who speaks of a crime and refers to the criminal articles that concern terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u97	Agreed, but without the particularly serious character that does not exist in criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u98	I would like to talk about an offence by specifying the articles of the Criminal Code that cover terrorist offences. This makes it possible to establish a limited list and to know what we are talking about. A particularly serious offence, tomorrow, can be a red light, especially if it has consequences. This was a clarification to limit the scope of application.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u99	Mrs Matz, if I understand correctly, you will keep your amendment. You want to change the word "infraction" into the word "crime"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u100	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u101	What about the other way around?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u102	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u103	You're not gonna hold on to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u104	No, not at all. I do not support this amendment. I'll explain it for the last time. I want the term "particularly serious offence"...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u105	The term "specially serious crime" does it mean that you want to be defined as "crime"?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u106	... that "the particularly serious offence" equals the offences covered by Title I, Book III of the Criminal Code, which are terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u107	If I may take up the defense, it is dangerous to take over terms from criminal law in the terminology of foreign law. Those two are best kept strictly separate. It has already been said, in criminal law there is a clear distinction between.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement.infringement. This is taken over in the Aliens Act as a collective name by "specially serious crime." It remains the appreciation of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to fill in that term and to do the appreciation. There may be some confidence; the Commissioner-General is not a court in itself, let alone a criminal court. That is why it is not intended to incorporate those terms from criminal law into the foreign law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u108	I understand the broad nature that is being asked for and that is intended to leave a field of application. But what I do not understand is that for a very important act such as the removal of nationality, it is very clear where this deprivation of nationality can be applied and that it is simply not paralleled with the removal of temporary protection status or refugee status. It was a parallelism that I proposed to make between the deprivation of nationality possible under certain circumstances and the possibility of withdrawing refugee status under such and such specific circumstances. I don't think we'll be able to agree on that concept anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u109	Mr President, I would like to intervene. Mrs Smeyers, we also had this discussion in committee. I understand Mrs. Matz's logic in this one. It complains that the term "specially serious crime' is not in itself a legal term and that, in that sense, the appreciation of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless is not limited or defined. In other words, the Commissioner-General has a great deal of room to judge for himself what is particularly serious crime. So, if I understand correctly, the proposal is to delineate that a little bit more into "crime crime," which could go too far. That is why we abstained in the vote in committee. We shall, moreover, do so again in plenary. I understand Mrs Matz's logic, in the sense that the expression 'particularly serious crime' is too broad. That is one of the reasons why we will abstain from voting on the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u110	Compared to these very broad notions, it is always the counterpart. We must both punish those who leave the framework heavily, but we must not give the impression to others that it hangs on their noses. This is the aim pursued by this amendment and that of obtaining the assent of the CGRA. If you have CGRA's assent on all the procedures, including withdrawal, that's very good! But we regret that, for the most serious measure of remoteness, we cannot have this assent from the CGRA. That would seem to me to be quite logical. At the time of removal, the Minister must obviously take the advice of the CGRA, but it is not bound by this opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u111	Mr President, I understand the differences, the parallelisms, the very legal approaches to the matter. I would like to go back to what this lack of rigour has led us to do in the past. We had to accept as asylum seekers in Belgium people who had been convicted of terrorist acts elsewhere! That's the reality! We can cut our hair in four, but we must avoid seeing this kind of scandal repeated, namely that people convicted of terrorist acts suddenly arrive in Belgium as refugees. Perhaps we need to give the CGRA some room for this and look at the reality, as the minister told us in committee. We do not cast reproach on all asylum seekers, we are talking today about about fifteen cases, which is still not nothing. Mrs Matz, as you yourself said, this is the basis of a European directive. A number of countries have preceded us in a strictly comparable manner. The CDH's attitude on this issue has been constructive. You said you would vote for the government's plans in this area – and that's a good thing. We are not going to argue again about the fact that you had introduced bills that were already provided for in the government agreement while saying that you had done so before. Goddamn it! It is still sad that you have such a positive approach, but that you are trying to abstain from voting on what we have just talked about, that is to say, giving yourself the opportunity to no longer welcome people who are actually terrorists into our territory as refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u112	Mr Ducrame, I have told you that we fully subscribe to the principle. The amendment that I am proposing makes it possible to punish those who, under the guise of the status offered by international protection, come here to commit terrorist acts on the grounds that they would not risk anything. I simply ask that it be no longer a particularly serious offence, but a terrorist offence within the meaning of the Criminal Code, since it defines it – whether it be propaganda, recruitment, but also the commission of the act. So we're not very far away, we share your goal. Only we reject the term "particularly serious offence". What does it mean? Moreover, the Secretary of State listed situations where one could speak of a particularly serious offence. This list has demonstrated for itself that it is not exhaustive. We therefore want to define the scope of this concept. As I said when I started my speech, we share the objective. We support the four bills that are being put to our vote. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you more generally that we regret the slow pace with which the dossiers have arrived in Parliament. Secondly, and I have already had the opportunity to say so, we deplore the lack of a substantial budget for these ambitious policies: the extension of listening, which will require new means; the monitoring and withdrawal of identity cards, which will require the OCAM to carry out additional tasks. It is important that budgets be provided. So we can't say everything and its opposite. I don't think we can do more with less, even if others seem to be convinced of it. I'll put out a third reserve. These measures are very important, but they must be part of an equally important set of provisions at all levels of power. On several occasions, we have reminded the Minister of the Interior of the importance of coordination, in particular with the federated entities, but also with the municipalities, on a number of policies. On this subject, we will be very attentive to what the government will propose for a better flow of information, for an effective fight against illegal content on the Internet and for a better consideration of all the services that are required to fight terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u113	Too little, too late. It could be the summary of this debate. A year ago, and in fact it was much earlier, this country was collectively awakened after what happened in Verviers, the Jewish Museum and Charlie Hebdo. Before that there were the attacks of 9/11, Madrid, London and related people. It is a flaming policy, as we are used to in the wake of major social events, and this includes terrorist attacks. We will largely approve the legislative proposals before us, although they are very far away from the original twelve-point plan that was defended here a year ago by Minister of the Interior Jambon. I am disappointed by the fact that we have discussed all kinds of technical details in the context of the legislative proposals in question, but we have not discussed the substance of the problem. That has different facets. Firstly, there is our foreign policy. Mr Bonte and Mr De Wever and mayors of different cities are in their hands because of the Syrian fighters who turn out to be the potential terrorists of the future on their return. What has been our policy on Syria and our policy on the Middle East in the past few years and decades? Shouldn't Didier Reynders, our Secretary of State, put his hand in his own bosom? Didn't we create those Syrian warriors for a piece of our own? Have we not made it very clear to all these young Muslims that the great enemy is Assad, that Assad had to leave and that there had to be another regime in place? Was it not the great leader of Open Vld, Mr Verhofstadt, who said in the European Parliament and in the media that we should arm the opposition in Syria? Mr Van Quickenborne, as mayor of Kortrijk, you will soon be communicating your local needs to this hemisphere. Verhofstadt mentioned the Free Syrian Army. That skipped pretty quickly in al-Nusra. Now we're dealing with ISIS. Those who wanted precisely to arm Mr Verhofstadt have never been entirely clear. You cannot expect immigrants from Muslim youth, after you have all together called for Assad to be taken out of the saddle and even to deliver weapons, that they assume that you then say that it is not quite what it should be and that they should not fight with that club but with the other club. For many years now, in our foreign policy, we have been on the side of the United States. Let us see what has happened in the Middle East. In Egypt Mubarak had to leave, and we were given the Muslim Brotherhood. With the Arab Spring, in almost all countries of the Middle East, the existing leaders had to leave to bring all kinds of radical clubs into power. In Iran, the Shah had to leave to bring the ayatollahs to power. In Iraq Saddam Hussein had to leave, still such a dictator, to bring ISIS to power. In Afghanistan we are now with the Taliban and in Syria, when Assad is finally eliminated, you can choose between a very radical club and an even more radical club. Same thing for what's happening in Africa in the meantime. Isn't that, in part, the cause of radicalisation within Muslim circles, even here with us? Shouldn't you be putting your hand in your own bosom for a piece? Secondly, there is the fact that for decades you have allowed the radical Muslim to take root here. Just two kilometers from here is the central mosque in the Cinquantenaire Park. Was it not the Belgian government that allowed Saudi Arabia's wahabists to set up that mosque and establish their influence in our country through that mosque? Will we not allow the Diyanet, Mr Erdogan's Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs, to finally control, finance and determine who the imams are and what they preach? I know what I am talking about in a city like Antwerp because we cannot, can't, can't, can't, can't act. Then, with a lot of media noise, one imam somewhere in Wallonia will really not make the difference. That's good in the paper, Mr Francken. I know that, but if you know anything about the problem, you can only laugh at it. Better one than none, I admit, but there are still a few hundred on the list, if you ask me. There is no free ride on the back of the tiger. It is not possible to pamper and allow radical Islam here for decades, and to act as if nothing is going on, and in some cases even subsidise it, to conclude afterwards that we are dealing with radicals, that these radicals are doing what radical Islam is asking them to do, namely to feed the jihad and to feed it where they need to be fed, in the Middle East, in Africa, but also here, unfortunately. You owe that to yourself. You have made Islam a recognized religion here. You find it necessary to subsidise Islam and recognize imams. You must, of course, bear the consequences of this. Your political and multicultural negationism, of course, has caused us to face the current problems. I met Peter Calluy this afternoon. Peter Calluy has written an interesting book, you should certainly read it, all of you who are so raging against jihadism here today. The book is called Chronicle of an announced calamity. Peter Calluy was a social assistant who worked for the municipality of Boom. Boom is the municipality where, in case you don't know, most people don't know, Sharia4Belgium has seen the light of day years ago, where the father of Abu Imran, our friend who is now in prison, had a garage and where Abu Imran has been radicalized. Peter Calluy warned. And what happened to Peter Calluy? He was fired by the socialist municipality of Boom, Mr. Bonte. What he said was politically incorrect, it was an attack on multiculturality. It was an insult to Islam, because there were no radicals and the people of Sharia4Belgium were carnival fools that nobody thought of and who only played into the hands of the Flemish Block or the Flemish Interest. Today, this debate proves that you were a little bit wrong. With your multicultural and political correctness, you have eventually created a monster that you can no longer control today. The third reason that is fundamental in this debate, which goes beyond the detailed amendments that have been discussed here all the time, is the fact that you are simply afraid to acknowledge that the true nature of Islam is one of intolerance, intolerance and violence. Not I say that, that says countless investigations that have already been published. From an investigation by the German Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin für Sozialforschung Tens of thousands of Muslims in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden show that 66% of European Muslims consider Sharia more important than the laws of the country in which they live, and that 75% says that there is only one interpretation of the Qur'an that should serve all Muslims. Sixty percent of European Muslims say that one must return to the roots of Islam and live according to Sharia. That is the fundamental problem of what you call radicalisation. As long as you do not dare to acknowledge that we tolerate, subsidise and acknowledge Islam here, and what do I know, in the end, a snake in our bosom, we will have to continue to take this kind of action in the superb stairs, we will continue to have this kind of debate, and the attacks and radicalisation will only increase. The legislative proposals before us are not much more than a drop on a hot record. What we really need is perhaps a Patriot Act like in the United States or perhaps the proposals that have been put into practice in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Mr Dewael has already walked, I see. Apparently, he doesn't think the debate is important enough after his speech. Let me conclude, Mr President, because I do not want to annoy this half-round for too long with statements and truths which are now being shared by a large part of the population but which have not yet reached the honourable Members' representatives, lists some of the proposals which have already been made in the meantime or which will undoubtedly have to be implemented in the future. By the way, when we asked for the nationality of radicals of this kind to be taken away years ago, there were quite a few politicians, who also have a seat in Parliament today, who were screaming at us for fascists, racists, intolerants, anti-democrats, and what do I know? It is one of the points in the 70-point plan of the then Flemish Block that you will realize today, for which I congratulate you. By the way, I have to ask for copyright for all these proposals that are now being made. One of the things to do is to have a declaration of loyalty made by any Muslim or anyone who is a national of one of the countries of the Organisation of Islamic Countries, to which all Islamic countries belong, to make it clear that Sharia is being renounced. That is also what should be done when someone marries someone from those countries, and so should civil servants. It is not just the nationality of jihad fighters and related people that should be taken away, but rather a policy of deradicalisation and of not returning jihad fighters, a much more aggressive policy, an exit policy. This means encouraging those who confess to jihadism, those who confess to wahabism, those who confess to radical Islam, to leave the country. We should not try to discourage them from leaving the country, we should encourage them to leave because they do not belong here. The deradicalisation programme, or deradicalisation programme, as I can see and evaluate, will, with all due respect, Minister for the Interior, convince few young people not to take the step, quite the contrary. We must, as is already the case in Germany, ban the jihadist symbols, dare to ban the symbols of ISIS and the jihad movement. I see Mr Francken laughing: his copy machine is already ready. Perhaps this bill will come soon. Any Belgian who voluntarily enlists in an armed group's armed forces must, in any case, be taken away from Belgian nationality. These necessary proposals may not make it possible to tackle radicalism within Islam in our country on the ground or to eradicate it with root and branch. Unfortunately, it is far too advanced for that. They have taken root and are among us with many tens of thousands, not to say hundreds of thousands, who support them. It's not gonna be that easy to limit that. However, if we want at least the terrorist summit, those who have already evolved to support terrorism and commit violence, in the end, these legislative proposals are absolutely necessary, and we have tabled seven, to put an end to the excesses and, hopefully, to some, perhaps a modest part, of the terrorist attacks in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u114	Mr President, Ministers, I rise to this forum aware of the need to seek in this debate the widest consensus and with the will to overcome the divides between majority and opposition. I would like to say once and for all to Mr Ducrame, even if he is no longer there, that he must not seek to be more controversial by constantly invoking the laxity of one another and the extreme rigor of the other, the laxity of those who were in the government in which his party participated yesterday, and by pretending that the rigor in the fight against terrorism is the proper one for this majority. Of two things one: either the MR was singularly lacking in lucidity when he passed laws which he now considers insufficient, or Mr.Ducarme himself showed laxity by voting them. Nevertheless, it is not appropriate to hold speeches that go beyond the acceptable one in an attempt to valuate one another. This debate deserves better than the ridiculous confrontation desired by those who want to give themselves an advantage to the detriment of others. Indeed, the meeting of democratic political forces is essential here. I do not come here with a negative look at the bills under consideration, but I continue to believe that there are gaps in our criminal arsenal. The FDF has tabled a bill that I recognize is inspired by the Cazeneuve law in France. It cannot be said that the French Government is lax, whatever its ideology, in the fight against terrorism. Nor can it be said that the French tradition in this regard, whatever the Governments, is not to enforce the authority of the State in the fight against terrorism. It must be recognized that, in general, the French have a shared republican meaning in this matter. While we have tabled a bill to this effect, I regret that one does not encounter a serious problem that is still not resolved in Belgian criminal law: criminalization for non-compliance with a ban on leaving the country. Today, there are no penal provisions that punish those who do not comply with the ban on leaving the country. And yet your bills, which we will support for some of them, do not meet that essential objective. I am not one of those who think, for example, that the expulsion of an imam is the right response to radicalisation. No! The real answer is arrest, criminal trial, criminal conviction and imprisonment. This is the real answer to those who, through their speeches and actions, incite the commission of terrorist acts. Expulsion means putting them back in the international circuit of terrorism. It's not my choice. A rule of law that is respected is a rule of law that severely punishes those who threaten our democracies. (Applause) When you congratulate yourself on the expulsion of an imam, you have not really done the work that you are entitled to expect from an authority that is respected. That is why I also plead for the criminalization of the ban on leaving the country. The weakness of your bills is that there is no clear measure to prohibit your departure from the territory. It is the withdrawal of residence permits abroad, the passport, the possible visa, the withdrawal of the identity card, but this is not explicitly the administrative measure prohibiting exit from the territory. In short, your bills are bad luck. We will support them because it is a default measure, but you will have to rework them. You will have to come back with a much clearer, stronger and meaningful measure that will once and for all decide this essential legal debate. France has done so; you have not yet done so. Don't come here today to say that you would be more rigorous and that others would be lax. There are still legal weaknesses in your text. In fact, you yourself realize that legal problems can arise. In the draft law on the removal of identity cards, with the automatic consequences on the removal of the passport in the Consular Code, you are obviously obliged to take the advice of the Public Prosecutor's Office. If the latter tells you: "Warning, the removal of the identity card may have consequences for the validity of the criminal proceedings envisaged, regardless of the stage, of the information or already of the investigation, in particular because there are procedural acts which must be notified and therefore the withdrawal of the identity card may invalidate the judicial proceedings", in this case you lift your foot. You must do so because you did not provide for the administrative measure prohibiting you from leaving the territory. You would not have this problem of legal insecurity if you had clearly provided for the ban on leaving the territory, because you would have separated the problem of the possession of identity cards from an indispensable administrative police measure. You have had to work in a weak legal environment, aware of the consequences, namely that the removal of identity cards could undermine the entire judicial process. I believe that your work will have to be taken up on a more serious legal basis if you really want to achieve the objectives we share. I would like to be very clear on that. I have no weakness, no desire to let people who are at risk of participating in terrorist acts abroad leave Belgian territory. But the real answer is to hold them here and have the will to keep these people under control. In fact, intelligence experts tell you that the removal of any identity card may lead to a traceability problem. Of course, instead of the ID card (like this measure is a mistake), you will give a provisional administrative document, a supplementary document to the ID card because you must keep a record of the identity of the people. This shows that you have imperfectly solved this essential problem. Even if we are going to vote on your bills because we do not want to give you the advantage of dealing with laxists, I am simply saying that legally, you could have done much better, much more certain and acted more effectively. With regard to the withdrawal of political refugee status or subsidiary protection status, I agree with Mrs Matz's remarks. That the CGRA has jurisdiction is better than a ministerial authority! I'll meet you. But you haven't solved all the problems. Mr Ducarme's comments earlier on Mrs Matz's amendment were of little relevance. You know very well that, despite the withdrawal of this status, there are cases where refoulement cannot apply. Besides, it's not the point either to simply say "We expel". The point is not to say to these people "Go back to the theatre of operations" in countries in conflict with terrorist forces." It is not in any interest to put these people back in the "international circulation of terrorism". The amendments tabled by Mrs Matz, saying "Acceptance of the CGRA", made it possible to ascertain whether refoulement was necessary in some cases in relation to the threat. I always come back with the same observation. It is not the deprivation of an identity card or passport or the deprivation of a status or the deprivation of a nationality that will bring the real answer, the definitive and bold response to the fight against terrorism. It's criminalization. This is the conviction by the courts. And here too, there are still gaps. I was talking about criminalization for those who do not respect the ban on leaving the territory. There is also criminalization for all those who disseminate, via the Internet, incitement to terrorism. You know that today there are gaps. Unfortunately, in our legal arsenal, we do not have every means to prohibit the transmission of messages of incitement to terrorism by certain social networks. It's also about this that we'll have to work on. When the government tells us that today it is making a major step forward, I say that it is a very small step in relation to the real challenges ahead. We are taking this debate together to raise our collective security protection against terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u115	Mr President, the few minutes that our group leader has saved for me will be devoted to the last draft law amending the foreign law. This amendment should allow recognised refugees, otherwise protected and asylum seekers to lose their right of residence. In short, it must make our society safer. After all, the conditions for granting refugee status need to be strengthened. At present, a person can only be denied refugee status, subsidiary protection or asylum seeker status because of war crimes, crimes against humanity or fraud. As previous speakers have repeatedly said, it goes without saying that there is also a whole range of serious crimes that do not belong in our Western society, or in society tout court. This draft law makes this possible, inter alia, where a person is a threat to society or national security and when a person has been definitively convicted of a serious crime. The tightening of asylum conditions is a transformation of the measures already included and framed in the government agreement, as all previous measures under this point 5, in the broad context of actions to combat terrorism, among others. Colleagues, it is not appropriate for serious criminals to remain here once they have been granted the status of asylum seeker, protected or refugee. Secretary of State Francken has already made an explicit effort in recent months to return criminal illegals, with success. This week, the residence of a radical imam was withdrawn, successfully. In addition to the radical imams and the criminal illegals, there is also a group of migrants who may be able to obtain or obtain the necessary residence documents, but do not necessarily have good intentions. If someone commits a serious crime or is a threat to our security, to our society, then that person does not belong here and should be able to withdraw his residence status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u116	Mrs. Smeyers, I listened carefully. You said, "A person who commits a terrorist act must not be part of our society." I agree with you that the commission of a terrorist act is an extremely serious and even one of the most serious acts in the Penal Code and what we can tolerate at the level of society. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following fact. Mehdi Nemmouche, who most likely carried out the attack in Paris, was not Belgian. This did not prevent him from committing the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels. What I want to tell you is that it is not by banishing terrorists or terrorist candidates from Belgian territory that you will achieve the objective that we Greens want to achieve, namely efficiency in the fight. Banning a person, who is a radicalized imam, a person who indoctrinates young people, a person who today has become radicalised via the Internet alone, will not bring the efficiency that our fellow citizens are entitled to expect from the Belgian state. It is the follow-up by the State Security, the intelligence services and the police that will make it possible for us, in practice, to arrest these people. As Mr. Maingain has said, banishing a candidate for radicalization will not bring security. This may give you a good conscience, because these jihadists, as a result, will no longer be part of our national community. Maybe! But this radical imam, if it is dangerous for the Belgians, which justifies its distance, it is also dangerous for the Dutch. You live in the days of Twitter, you live in the days when you take a bus like you buy chewing gum from the supermarket. Mehdi Nemmouche came by bus, he didn't come by plane. Today, we tweet and exchange on WhatsApp in 30 seconds. And it's by removing the candidates for terrorism that you're going to solve the security problem? I don't think so. You are not achieving the goal of efficiency! You're a symbol, but you're not efficient!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u117	Mr President, I will devote some of my minutes to the answer. We are responsible for our nationality legislation and, as the Secretary of State said in committee, the Netherlands and France for theirs. We cannot, of course, accept the responsibility of any nationality legislation. If we accept our own responsibilities and if other countries do so, we will be a long way ahead. It is better to take these measures than to assume that those who pose a danger to us but have been deported are a danger elsewhere and that these countries will have to take action. That's done and clear. Or should we reform Dutch nationality legislation from here too? Moreover, it was about refugee status and not about nationality legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u118	Mrs. Smeyers, that's not the point. Mr Hellings said that if someone were to be expelled from the country, that person might as well be able to enter the country illegally and commit a terrorist act here. So it is not up to us to say that other countries will have to amend their legislation. Mr Hellings and Mr Maingain find it strange that, as an imam incites violence, the government states in the newspapers that it will expel that man from the country. After all, inciting violence is a crime, so why does the government have the reflex to expel that man from the country and not the reflex that she should have to take on that person, with all the legal possibilities, so that he no longer poses a danger to our country, but also to France and the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u119	If I go through with your reasoning, then you shouldn't arrest him either, because he can run from prison. Maybe we should just let him walk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u120	I find it rather astounding to hear what has just been said at the start of the benches of Ecolo and Groen. They tell us that, anyway, there is no point in making arrangements, because we live in a global village. Why remove the threat, since it will come back or will land elsewhere? This reasoning argues for the most complete political irresponsibility. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u121	You can naturally, if you wish, have your opinion on the matter. But to point out that taking such measures, which punish the actors of terror, remove us, protect us,... to say that all this is of no use, by also omitting everything concerning international police cooperation, the Schengen area, the cooperation of the services, the exchange of information, is amazing! It's amazing to hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u122	There are 60 million people on the run worldwide. For more than two months now, we have been faced with the crisis of boat refugees in the Mediterranean. Mr De Vriendt, we also discussed it yesterday in committee in connection with the rescue of Syrian Christians in Aleppo. More and more people are fleeing conflict violence. We can say with some certainty that in the coming years there will only be more refugees asking for help in Europe and therefore in Belgium. It is therefore all the more important that we provide all material and financial assistance and protection for those who really need it. People who abuse our hospitality and compromise our own security are not part of that. The right to asylum for people covered by the Geneva Convention is a fundamental right. It is important that, as a society, we fulfil and continue to fulfil this duty. A policy that is not firm for refugees with bad intentions threatens to compromise that support for those we do want and should support. The aim of the draft law before us is not only to make this country safer, but also to ensure that public opinion does not turn against that asylum seeker and that refugee, whereas it is actually the crooked person who ruins society for whom it does mean well and who, by circumstances outside his will, has to flee his homeland. That is why this draft law is clearly part of the long-awaited humane and correct asylum policy that this government is pursuing, without socialists and with Theo Francken on Asylum and Migration. The change was already deployed in the previous legislature under Secretary of State De Block and is continuing today. It is here and now that much-needed changes in asylum and migration are being continued. We shall therefore give our full support to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u123	Mrs. Smeyers, I have a question for you. I have just intervened because our group believes that people who commit a crime, such as calls for violence, should be arrested as much as possible, instead of communicating that they will be expelled from the country. This draft law requires the withdrawal of the status of people or their refusal to enter the territory, where there are good reasons to believe that they pose a risk to national security. We can still agree with that. In itself, that is a discretionary power for the security of the State. But the draft law also allows the refugee status to be taken away if someone has committed a particularly serious crime. Then it is up to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to determine exactly what a particularly serious crime is. A suggestion has just been made by colleague Stefaan Van Hecke to better define the term "specially serious crime'. After all, it is not a legal term. Taking refugee status from someone goes very far. It goes beyond just putting someone out of the country. Taking away his status as a recognised refugee means that he cannot just go to another European country. This draft law allows this to happen after committing a particularly serious crime. We debated in committee what the government understands. At that time, the Secretary of State gave a number of examples, not an exhaustive list. In other words, we give a very wide margin of appreciation to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to determine exactly what that is. You're a lawyer, if I'm not mistaken, and that's why I'm asking what you mean by a particularly serious crime? Can you define and fill out that concept?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u124	Mr President, I am, of course, impressed by what Mr De Vriendt says. Apparently, he has problems with the concept of "specially serious crime." I think he is losing sight of the fact that this network provides for increased legal protection. By introducing a new concept, and not just a serious crime, but a particularly serious crime, the obligation to justify the application of that concept will not be reduced. On the contrary, she's getting bigger. If that statement of reasons does not properly demonstrate that it is not only a serious crime but a category higher, it will not be subject to judicial review. The use of that concept therefore ensures that legal protection is not reduced, but higher, contrary to what you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u125	Mr Vuye, what you are saying is not correct, because there is no formal obligation to state reasons. That, by the way, was a comment from the Council of State. In addition, add the word "in particular" to it. A serious crime is not, in itself, a legal term. The concept of "specially serious crime' is therefore not a stronger legal term. The two terms are legally equally multi-interpretable. We are now giving this margin of appreciation to the Commissioner-General. We have made a proposal. Why do we not take over the provision on Belgian nationality from the Code? According to Article 23, Belgian nationality may be taken on the basis of a number of offences and offences, which are listed exhaustively. Why do we not take over this qualification when it comes to reducing the refugee status? That is therefore legally correct. The margin of appreciation for the Commissioner-General is much less extensive, which is a good thing for legal certainty. Why do you not want to respond to our very specific suggestion? That would also increase the consequence of our legislation. The removal of Belgian nationality could be done under the same conditions as the removal of the refugee status: exhaustive, well-defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u126	Several legal techniques can be used. One can limit the margin of appreciation by referring to specific crimes, but one can also increase the obligation to state reasons. You say that there is no obligation to state reasons, so that is not true. This is a general principle of law at constitutional level. This is a rule of law. Perhaps we should not motivate this in socialist parties and socialist regimes, but we should motivate it in a state of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u127	What do you know about a socialist state of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u128	Mr De Vriendt, I would not be too worried about that. Luckily, it's not about the masses. I would also have some confidence in the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. How many times will it happen? They will interpret the term "specially serious crime' adequately and performantly. I would also like to point out that the term "serious crime" is already in the legislation today. Mrs Matz has also criticized this. At the initiative of cdH, the previous legislature referred to the exclusion of subsidiary protection because of a serious crime. Today we are talking about a particularly serious crime. This is, therefore, an extension of the concept and all this is done on the basis of the statement by the Commissioner-General, an independent body. Politics will therefore no longer be able to express its views on this matter. In addition, there is provision for an appeal. This is a suspensive appeal to the Council of Foreign Ministers under their jurisdiction. So do not paint it as if all the democratic principles of our rule of law are being thrown overboard here. The unofficial suggestion has been made to take over the exhaustive list on the withdrawal of nationality. We have said that there is a clear distinction between criminal law and the Code of Nationality, on the one hand, and foreign law, on the other. I will not give you an example of this. I am not going to replace either the Secretary of State or the Commissioner-General. We leave that appreciation margin to them. We will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u129	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, today we have an extremely rich debate in plenary with a lot of speeches that have been able to move the debate forward, unlike others that are more caricatural postures, which should be avoided. The fellow citizen deserves better than that in terms of security. However, I must point out that the debate has been good since the beginning of the meeting. For my part, I will deal with the withdrawal of identity cards and then share my feeling about the situation of this security policy with regard to the budgets and budgetary adjustment planned for 2015. Although the debate in committee was rich, he was not in a position to reassure the Socialist Group on the proposal for the withdrawal of identity cards. For the PS, as my colleague Willy Demeyer pointed out in his speech, there is a clear lack of benchmarks in this text. Our first criticism concerns the effectiveness of this measure. In the face of the terrorist, the measure has no effect. To pretend that the removal of the ID card would prevent a jihad candidate from leaving the territory is to be fooled. I would like to start a break by bouncing on the intervention of Mr Maingain and other colleagues in the opposition of the Ecolo-Groen Group. There is a lead that we need to work on in Parliament. Rejecting foreign nationals abroad or sending hot potatoes to Holland or another country will not solve our terrorism problems. When facts are proved concerning an individual, whether Belgian or foreign, we must be able to incriminate and condemn him before our courts and tribunals. This must happen first and foremost at home. We must probably promote this kind of reasoning in all European countries. The road we are talking about today certainly deserves us to come back to this issue in committee. Secondly, and I would particularly like to address Mr Jambon, I would like to point out that we do not feel a real global approach in the approach you are taking. You have repeatedly pointed out that the prevention and fight against radicalism and terrorism requires action ranging from local to European and federated entities. I join my colleague Hans Bonte from the sp.a. group, but I do not agree with Mr Servais Verherstraeten. I believe that the responsibility to create a positive dynamic and to unite action in the fight against radicalism and terrorism lies with the federal state. Work should be done as soon as possible to develop a measure allowing for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the Federal State and the federated entities on follow-up measures. I agree with Mr Verherstraeten that young people must be accompanied. This is important in the resolution adopted by the Flemish Parliament. We need concrete measures. I call on the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, to make contacts with the federated entities to sign this cooperation agreement. I'll talk about prevention in a moment. This is, in my opinion, the first priority in the fight against extremism. How can we not point out the lack of association of the mayors with these measures? They are on the front line and often solicited by families in disarray. It's depriving yourself of essential reinforcement. I agree with some other colleagues on the applicability of the texts. Practical elements of national security could be added. It is reasonable to fear that the application of these laws would endanger the instructions currently being issued at the level of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Far from improving our national security, we could weaken it. We might know of situations that would put her in trouble. Finally, there is above all the fact – and this is not a detail in law – that the measure would be applied on the basis of an intention and not an infringement. We're not even talking about a start of execution, we're talking about an intention. What beacons do we offer here? None or almost all. An appeal would be made to the Council of State, but it would not be suspensive, as with any other administrative measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u130	Mr Kir, the extension of the offence to the intention, supported by the broadening of the specific methods of research, will give judges the opportunity to examine as objectively as possible an intention to carry out an act of a terrorist nature. You tell us that this would be a risk to our freedoms. In view of the elements in its possession, a magistrate could isolate a terrorist intention and thus have the possibility to intervene and terminate that intention. If the magistrate is in possession of evidence that he is close to seeing a terrorist act, your approach would be to let it happen. In your opinion, the person who intends to commit a violent act of a terrorist nature should not be apprehended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u131	Mr Ducrame, thank you for the interpretation of my remarks. If you want to, I'll explain for a second time the substance of my thinking. I pointed out that in order to avoid having persons who commit terrorist acts or who intend to commit them, they must be criminalized on Belgian territory. Such a measure could be effective and allow us to protect ourselves in Belgium. By removing the ID card, what kind of problems are you dealing with? You are creating new ones at administrative, employment and in a range of fields. In fact, the problem is not resolved. If facts are reported by the State, why not bring them before a court? This is the simplest way that we can protect ourselves and our people, the whole of Europe and the countries that are coveted by some, sow disorder there. I didn't say we shouldn't act. I say that we must act differently and more effectively. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this poorly framed text, which opens the door in other circumstances to potentially arbitrary measures – it is known that a whole series of documents could not be brought to the attention of the person concerned – does not receive the consent of either the Council of State or the College of Prosecutors General, who doubt that the OCAM is in a position to play the role assigned to it with the means at its disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u132	Mr. Kir, may I ask you to conclude? There are still two PS speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u133	Mr. President, I'll try. For four hours, I didn't interrupt anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude on the question of the financing of our policies by insisting on an aspect that is very dear to me as a mayor. I think that many of you in charge of this function, like me, are very attached to the issue of prevention. Excuse me for saying things the way they are. You are reducing the means of politics in big cities. The politics of big cities are the guardians of peace in our neighbourhoods, Mrs. Schepmans. Without them, how will we be able to identify certain situations? How are we going to get information from the base? Mr Dewael said earlier – and he was a thousand times right – that it is collective work. There is a need for dialogue and synergy among all actors. But, Mr. Ducrame, when you withdraw resources from front-line actors through the politics of big cities, what are you doing? You are weakening our system of protection for our inhabitants and our neighbourhoods. I looked at the budget figures, all the figures. What have we done? On the police budget in 2015, 176 million were withdrawn. When the budget adjustment is made, it is added 38. But 138 million are still missing! And at the level of justice, to mention only this department, there are 115 million missing. I come to my conclusion. According to you, we can have twelve good measures. We agree with some of your measures, not all of them. But to be able to afford its policy, budgetary resources must be made available. It's a smoke screen. You are very good at this, especially Mr Ducrame, but in reality, no one is wrong! Each time you withdraw security resources. That's what you did in 2015, and in the adjusted budget, you didn't give back the resources that existed with the Di Rupo government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the fourth draft law, by Secretary of State Francken. I believe that the draft law comes at the right time in this House. We are faced with an increasing number of asylum applications, including the situation in the Middle East. If we want to maintain and maintain popular support in relation to asylum and migration, we need to develop strong mechanisms to ensure that action is taken against people who flagrantly abuse our hospitality. A clear change was made in this respect with Secretary of State Maggie De Block, and with the socialists in the government. I am pleased to see Secretary of State Francken building on a rigorous and fair migration policy. The draft law proposed by the Secretary of State is an important and necessary step in effective action against refugees and asylum seekers who are guilty of very serious acts, who participate in terrorist activities or who fraud. The legal initiatives in this area do take into account European and international legal standards and the protection of the legal order. Guarantees are also included in the current legislation. Moreover, I dare to testify that giving decision-making powers to an independent institution such as the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless strengthens those safeguards. Ladies and gentlemen, I read in a press that this legislation is rather symbolic and would not change much in this respect. That is why I wanted to take the floor. I am standing here not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as mayor of a city centre, Kortrijk. We welcome this draft law because we have been in the field for two and a half years now, I have been faced with mayor.. with individuals against whom we cannot act today, against whom we have no chance. These are people who have refugee status, a B card, who are known to the State's security for serious infringements or for ties with terrorist groups and who have a criminal record to tell you against. This concerns numerous pages of criminal offences known to the police. The frustration of the police is that today there is no action against these types of individuals. These are people who have been recognised in the past, but the legislation is so strict that it is impossible to collect evidence to go against them. The provisions of this legislation allow action to be taken against persons convicted, who are known for particularly serious offences or who participate in terrorist activities and fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u135	Mr Van Quickenborne, I do not know if you were in the Chamber, but I expressed my full support and appreciation for the decision of Secretary of State Francken. Through this draft law we are trying to do what we all feel, namely to send back people who have no control over them and who have a refugee status. I actually agree with that. What I was trying to make clear earlier is that it is not just those with refugee status who cause frustration. There are also returned Syrian fighters who are hardly being followed, or also radicalised persons who are being imprecisely followed and who disappear in Brussels. In short, there are quite a few. Anyone working on the field will know the frustrations of police and security forces. That is why I am particularly surprised that a draft law is being supported here at the same time that such people, who are convinced that they must by force establish a caliphate and that they must pursue their own martyr's death, can stop, but without guarantee of succession. I share the opinion of previous speakers that such people should be locked up and followed up on justice, police and social issues. You talk about radicalised persons in refugee status, but you do the opposite for radicalised people who do not have refugee status, but who do have mordicus being stopped without the guarantee of succession. It is precisely that guarantee of succession that we must have, but unfortunately we do not have it. That is why I am looking very carefully at the draft that Minister Jambon is defending in Parliament. I hope that we shall proceed very quickly to a cooperation agreement which will ensure that there is a successful follow-up. We can't do that today, in all honesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u136	Mr Bonte, first of all I would like to thank you for your support for the draft. It is an important observation, ladies and gentlemen, that at least one opposition party will soon adopt the draft bill. I have heard other noises from Mr van Groen. The draft is a good step forward, and I am glad that you support it. You also have experience on the site in the city center of Vilvoorde. I therefore see you as an ally in this struggle. Your question is about another group that also causes problems in our society. I await with great interest the answers of the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on the policy of radicalised returners. There's a policy. We must, of course, work together, including with the Communities, to solve the problem. I believe, however, that it requires as much effort as the draft law before us. It is not, therefore, because we approve this draft law that we would suddenly leave all other efforts untouched. On the contrary, we must fight on both fronts, and I am glad to see you as an ally in this, Mr Bonte. We will see if your group follows you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude, because my speaking time is limited. The draft law is really a step forward for city centres. It will ensure that security can return to our inner cities by taking action against people who flagrantly abuse our hospitality. The law finally gives our institutions the power to act against it. That is why my group will vote with great conviction in favour of the draft bill and related drafts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u137	Mr President, Ministers, I will focus on what my colleagues Van Hecke and De Vriendt have already said on the deprivation of Belgian nationality. The draft law envisages extending the possibility of depriving Belgian nationals of Belgian nationality and aims at two aspects. On the one hand, it is planned to allow for the revocation of all terrorist-related offences, whereas the current text allows for the revocation of only the most serious offences and, on the other hand, the 10-year period is abolished. From now on, it will be allowed to deprive someone of Belgian nationality, even though he has acquired it for more than ten years. This last point is criticized by the opposition colleagues, but also by the Council of State, which makes it possible to suggest an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court. Why? As envisaged here, the revocation measure introduces a distinction between two kinds of Belgians: those who are liable to be deprived, i.e. those who have become Belgian and others who may be deprived and who are Belgian by birth. The Constitutional Court validated this distinction between these two types of Belgians in 2009. In France, where this debate has also taken place, the Constitutional Council has also endorsed this statement. He created a reasonable distinction between the French of origin and those who became French. However, the French Constitutional Council pointed out in a judgment in 2015 that this difference between the acquisition of French nationality and the deprivation "cannot be extended without disproportionate prejudice to equality between persons who have acquired French nationality and those to whom French nationality was attributed at birth". However, the government's plan goes much further. It removes the ten-year period, so that a measure of revocation can take place even in respect of persons who would have acquired Belgian nationality twenty, thirty or forty years ago. So, as decided by the Constitutional Council in France, the removal of this deadline makes the measure a disproportionate violation of equality between, let us take the example of the Belgians, by birth and the people who have become it. "It is possible to think of such measures in view of the importance of the fight against terrorism." That is the bulk of the arguments that have been put forward by colleagues in the majority. But providing for differential treatment between certain categories of Belgians is not reasonable or proportionate and that is what the Constitutional Court might say one day. This is all the more so since the revocation provided for in the new Belgian law does not only cover foreigners who became Belgian after a period of more or less long stay in Belgium, it also applies to persons who were born on Belgian territory, who have always resided there and who, at the age of 18, have chosen to become Belgian under the Belgian Nationality Code. I must repeat to my colleagues here that many of our Belgian citizens of Moroccan origin are binational, but not by choice. Today, Belgian citizens of Moroccan origin must remain Moroccan because Morocco refuses to take Moroccan nationality away from them. Belgian citizens of Moroccan origin who want to be only Belgian cannot be Belgian. This is also the case with the Belgo-Turcs. Thus, those Belgian citizens of Moroccan origin who have dual nationality against their will find themselves de facto in the same situation as a person who became Belgian at birth. They were born in Belgium and have always lived there. Mrs. Smeyers, these people are part of our community. With regard to them, I would therefore say that the removal of the ten-year deadline makes the revocation a measure which, in the view of the Constitutional Court, could appear to be discriminatory. Mr Vuye, you talked about the ruling of the Constitutional Court which upheld the distinction between two kinds of Belgians. I'll read you the rule. In 2009, the Constitutional Court had properly validated the distinction between these two categories of Belgians on the grounds, I quote, that "it is permissible that the possibility of revocation be excluded only for those Belgians to whom Belgian nationality has been automatically attributed because of the particularly strong ties between them and the national community and, on the other hand, can be applied to Belgians who have acquired nationality after 18 years and who cannot justify such close and old ties with Belgium." However, people born on Belgian territory who obtain Belgian nationality at the age of 18 because they want to do so also report particularly strong ties since they are Belgian and have always lived in Belgium. Applying the time limit to such persons is therefore, more importantly, a measure which seems to us to be discriminatory and unwarranted. There is now in the penal arsenal, which there is no need to change, the deprivation of civil and political rights. If a person commits an act as serious as a terrorist act, or is in the process of committing it, he or she may be deprived of his or her civil and political rights, be they Belgian, of Belgian origin and born in Belgium, or of foreign origin and born in Belgium, or even foreign and become Belgian. And we want to stay there, to allow someone to be condemned, it is true in a related way, but also equally, for acts of terrorism. That is why we have the greatest doubts about this project and that is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u138	Mr President, I understood that I had only a few minutes. So I'll try to be brief. It is true that Mr. Ducrame has left, and I should not be interrupted even if, in my opinion, I could have been, since, Mr. Minister of Justice, I will look at the offence of intent which we have discussed at length during the debates in committee. I will not repeat the whole debate, but allow me to remind you of the opinion of the Council of State, which, despite the debates in committee, despite the questions asked, we do not yet have any real answers. I have told you, perhaps in a somewhat harsh way, that legislation must be put in place to combat terrorism. You are trying to do this, of course, but we must also try to have applicable legislation, which is not critical and which, above all, allows us to remain within the framework of legal certainty so that tomorrow they are effective and that we are far beyond the symbol, with a view to reassuring the people. It is from this perspective that we try to work, as well as the lawyers, in courts and tribunals, but also at the level of lawyers and prosecutors. However, we already have a whole series of infringements in this area. That is what is being raised by the Council of State. However, you have already made improvements to your text based on his remarks, and I am grateful to you for that. Nevertheless, the fundamental problem remains. We could already, without this legislative amendment, on the basis of the text as intended, have convictions in the context of the attempt. The choice is different. In the case we are concerned about, it is the person who will leave our territory or come there for the commission of a terrorist offence, referred to in the various articles and with the exception of the offences that already exist. The problem was whether "we are not within the scope of the offence of intent", says the Council of State. In doing so, the Committee asked you to provide clarification in the explanatory memorandum and during the discussions. I have asked you questions about practical cases that I believe are important to get answers to. For example, a person takes a bus to Spain and then sail across the Strait of Gibraltar to visit his family in Morocco. Along the way, she decided to stop in Barcelona to buy a plane ticket to get to the Middle East. In this case, where is the beginning of the commission of the offence? According to the Council of State, there is a problem here in terms of legality. Why? Because, as you know, a person must know clearly, by reading the Penal Code and in view of the interpretations made of it, what acts are being prosecuted and what omissions are taking responsibility for them. What is the action pursued if we refer to the example I have just given? Is there a desire to leave abroad when the person concerned decides to take the bus to Brussels or when he decides to fly to Barcelona? This is very important in the context of criminal enforcement. This is a matter of concern with regard to what is known as the offence of intent. Beyond that – and I think I can say that the Council of State is also clear about this – it is not clear what is happening. An explanation may exist, but if that is the case, it must be clearly given in front of this House. These are not "isolated loups" referred to in the explanatory memorandum. As I've already told you, I don't believe it. Indeed, in my opinion, there is no isolation. If this is the case, I invite you to give us examples. Through this offence, do you not intend to "catch" those for whom it is particularly difficult to find evidence that would allow their conviction? If that is what this is about, I think you need to make it clear today. At least things will be simpler and we will know what to expect, rather than turning around the pot to finally say, "I create an offence that will allow me to get a conviction". Minister, I think that is relatively clear. We can have laudable and legitimate intentions. One can have the will to convict the culprits and try to secure a conviction for the alleged culprits. We are also trying to prevent risks to the satisfaction and protection of our people. It is also essential that there is no unsaid and that things are made clear. If not, you would really be in the offence of intent and in a "symbol" law – while you can expect something else – and this, only to satisfy a public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u139	I will be very brief to explain to you the reasons behind my group's abstention on the bill amending the 1980 Aliens Act, with a view to better addressing threats to national security. I would like to highlight directly the reasons why this project is poorly targeted and therefore ineffective, in addition to being unfair. First, there is a simple practical question. Your project envisages that the Secretary of State will forward to the CGRA the elements that would possibly justify a withdrawal of subsidiary protection or refugee status. We are talking here about national security and therefore probably documents partially classified by the State Security. The transmission of such information could therefore be problematic or even endanger ongoing judicial proceedings. In this case, it is not yet known whether the person subject to the measure in the context of an appeal, for example, would have access to that information. Second question. There was nothing in the debate in committee to clarify what you meant by "particularly serious offences". I know that a number of colleagues have gone back to that. These offences would not be crimes in our Criminal Code. If these are merely acts punishable by imprisonment, it should be recalled that minor offences are punishable by imprisonment. Are we going to withdraw refugee status from apple thieves? That's totally disproportionate. Finally, you remove from the law the need for CGRA's assent in several points of the procedure, particularly in the case of expulsion. That's not acceptable. This service is nevertheless better equipped than a ministerial cabinet to judge the conformity with international law of a removal order. We could continue for a long time to enumerate the defects of this text, including in terms of Belgium's international obligations, but those stated are sufficient to show that you are again filing a text whose application will be the most problematic. They are also enough to tell you why we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you all, on behalf of the government, for the dignified, interesting and rich debate that we have had on a problem that connects us rather than separates us. In many debates, we have managed together to overcome the divisions between opposition and majority. Mr Van Hecke has just given a number of examples of adjustments to the draft legislation following the government's initial intentions and subsequent debates in Parliament. I am aware that not all of the opposition's suggestions have been accepted, but on both sides we have shown that the problem binds us in the determination to tackle it. Although there are, of course, differences in the modalities between the groups, we have managed together to make it a rich and dignified debate, for which I would like to thank you. It is clear that what is before us today is just a few measures. So far, there have been 12 measures, but I would like to point out that Mr Francken's draft law was not included in the initial twelve measures. So today we can talk about the thirteen measures, completely aside. With regard to Home Affairs and the identity card bill, I am not going to repeat all the points we have raised in committee, but I am going to give some answers to this afternoon's remarks. Mr. Demeyer is no longer here, but other speakers like him have addressed police sub-equipment. That's right. When I became Minister of the Interior, I visited the various branches of the Federal Police. I found a serious sub-equipment absolutely incredible. I invite you to visit our special forces in Etterbeek and listen to them. You will then be convinced that, in the past, we have made far too many savings in this sector. This is why the government decided, during the budgetary control, to add a significant amount to improve the equipment and increase the staff of the special police forces, whether they are the anti-terrorist cells, the Computer Crime Unit, etc. We're solving the problem. I realize that between when the decision is made to release the budget and when new weapons and equipment can be delivered to the police, a lot of time can pass. But things started. There has been a lot of talk here about the role of the OCAD and the Security of the State. I believe, however, that it is quite clear. Whether this is the case in practice, we discussed this yesterday in the Advisory Committee of the P Committee and the I Committee. However, the division of roles is very clear, the law on OCAD is very clear about that. The OCAD carries out analyses based on information it can obtain from seven support services. The State Security and the ADIV, the Defence Intelligence Service, are two of those seven support services. They provide information and on the basis of that information the OCAD shall draw up its analyses. It is obvious that I must support Mr Dewael in saying that each of the seven support services and the OCAD, of course, have a huge responsibility to actually transfer all the information to the OCAD, so that the analyses can be done on the basis of all available information and not on the basis of part of it. That is why, Ms. Matz, the OCAM is much better placed than the State Security to conduct the pre-retirement analyses of an identity card. While State Security has its information channels, OCAM has much more. Next to the State Security, there are the Defence, the Customs, the Federal Police, the local police, the seven support services. Normally, the OCAM has much more information and is able to carry out a much more accurate analysis than the only State Security. That is why we have placed the responsibility for the analysis at the OCAD. Some colleagues have asked today whether the OCAD is adequately equipped for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, the OCAD is already doing such analyses today. The support services, the government and even mayors can ask the OCAD to make an analysis of a situation, to tell whether something is going on or not. That is what is happening today. In fact, this is not a major extension of the tasks of the OCAD. It is obvious that we will follow that up. In the event of too high a workload, we will tackle and solve this problem. Several colleagues questioned the status of the circular on the twelve, now thirteen measures. Tomorrow there will be a meeting between the Justice FPS and the Interior FPS, during which the text will be finalized before being submitted for our signature. We will therefore very soon launch this circular, which has been promised for some time now. Mr Bonte, you raised a very important point when you asked whether we should keep everyone mordicus in the country. We also had that discussion in committee. I said then that the OCAD should include that in its analysis. In fact, I can imagine situations where we all say together that if a particular person wants to go, it is better to let him go. We'd rather lose it than be rich. What do we have in mind with the withdrawal of the identity card? First of all, they are young people. I have sufficient faith in our society to believe that we should be able to get young people who are radicalising.... to use an old-fashioned expression............................................ back on the path..................................................................................... That must be our ambition, in the rule of law and civilisation, which we claim to be. Mr Bonte, you are right to say that this can only be achieved if, in those first three months, renewable to another six months, those people are employed. It is not enough to withdraw the identity card and then rest on its laurels and say that a firm measure has been taken. Then I fully agree with you that this will lead to greater radicalisation rather than to what we are all trying to achieve together. You are right to say that the measure can only succeed if it is accompanied by accompanying measures. I have committed myself to this in committee. We also need the Communities to do this. I'm completely on your wavelength with that. I have said that I will try to conclude cooperation agreements with the Communities in parallel with the drafting of implementing decisions to transpose the law into practice. I hope that will work. If we fail to do so and if no accompanying measures are taken, then I think it would be better not to withdraw the identity card. I believe that we are fully on the same wavelength in this area. However, the division of powers is somewhat difficult for us here. In fact, I fully agree with you in that regard. Mr Verherstraeten has expressed a concern which concerns both the Minister of Justice and perhaps I too. It's not just about bringing together the multitude of available data, it's about doing something about it. I once had a lesson from Professor Eyskens, who said that the great challenge of the 21st century would be to convert the multitude of data into information. I believe that this is a concrete example. There are mass dynamometer data available at national and international level. Every day, it's the challenge of bringing those dates together and converting them into information that we can do something with. I share your concern and we are working to make that possible and to fully unlock it, at least for those who have the right to have that information. After all, you understand that this is sensitive. Mr President, I think I have dealt with most of the points which have not been discussed in committee. I take it Mr Geens is happy to supplement it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u141	Mr. Chair, I thank all stakeholders for their support for the amendment to the Consular Code regarding the removal of passports. The amendment had been approved with one abstention in committee. Since then, we have modelled provisions on existing provisions for the removal of identity cards on certain aspects. I do not think there have been any new remarks about this withdrawal and refusal of a passport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u142	Mr President, I would like to add my thanks to Mr Jambon and Mr Reynders for this very worthy and constructive debate. As for the infraction, here's the thing. I have noted several questions concerning criminalization and the technicality of criminal law, which are obviously complex, but at the same time I think we are overdoing it. On the one hand, Mr. Maingain said that there was no criminal sanction for the ban on leaving the territory. Indeed, the fact that leaving the territory for the purpose of terrorism abroad would henceforth be punishable is a step forward on the subject. I do not see what sanction would be better to explain that a particular profile cannot leave the territory. On the other hand, I have heard this sentence in relation to the imam which was expelled by Mr Franken today: "We do not have the necessary incriminations". That's not true. We have been criminalized for some time, it is not new and it makes it punishable for those who incite hatred and terrorism. I don't see where that remark comes from. As far as the crime of intent is concerned, I am not going to read you a text in English at length, but I still want to read to you what UN Security Council Resolution No. 2178 says in paragraph 6: “…decides that all States shall ensure that their domestic laws and regulations establish serious criminal offenses sufficient to provide the ability to prosecute and to penalize in a manner duly reflecting the seriousness of the offense their nationals who travel or attempt to travel to a State other than their States of residence or nationality, and other individuals who travel or attempt to travel from their territories to a State other than their States, for the purpose of the perpetration, planning or preparation of terrorist acts.” What we have done, Mr Massin, goes less far than this United States resolution, which even punishes those who leave to prepare for a terrorist act, while we have not made the preparatory acts punishable. Of course, we can still argue in criminal law. That's right! But the evidence is there to be used. I have already told you in committee, I believe, but I am not sure, that when someone announces on social networks that he is going to kill or decapitate people, that at the same time we find that he has ordered a plane ticket and that perhaps the Minister of the Interior has removed his identity card, even in this case, I think we are in the presence of a flagrant crime! Mr Hellings and Mrs Matz, you asked questions about security and investment. Let me make it clear that the government has decided to invest 40 million immediately in safety and security, in equipment. For example, with respect to safety and special units, it was decided to invest in systems called Bella and Hector. They are not cows but systems that allow the identification, by technical means, of telephone numbers connected to gsm cards. You also know that Justice received 37 million in budgetary control for additional staff investments. The State Security has received a much larger share than its share, in total disproportion with regard to prison officers and the judiciary. Really, we did our best to do right away what was necessary to make up for the under-equipment and lack of personnel at the State Security. As far as cooperation is concerned, Mr Dewael, you are right; we are all fireflame people and that is of all times. If there had not been two financial crises, we would not know today about the European Banking Union, and if terrorism had not occurred, we might not have these thirteen measures today, even if they were in the coalition agreement we negotiated together. But certainly at the end of the year. As far as cooperation is concerned, I would like to say the following. Last Thursday at the European Council, Mr Jambon was also present, I made a statement to beg the services of the state security of the other Member States to cooperate as the police cooperate. State security does not work together unless the other is completely reliable. Should the police in Europe do the same, we would not be far away today. So you are right, we are continuing your quest, we are repeating what you have said and we are fighting for it, also between the Belgian security services, by all means at our disposal. More Europe and more cooperation. Mr.Ducarme has already responded with the loyalty that characterizes him – he has done what was necessary, and I sincerely thank him for that. It was true that the circular on the freezing of assets of combatants and terrorists had been the subject of an opinion by the Attorney-General. Together with my colleagues in Finance, the Interior and Foreign Affairs, I will make every effort to distribute it to the FATF (Financial Action Task Force) in the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u143	Mr President, a number of general questions were asked. It is a bit the same debate as in committee. No problem, we'll do it again. Firstly, as regards the competence of the CGVS, as Mr Van Quickenborne and Mrs Smeyers stressed, the recognition of refugee status can only be withdrawn by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Only he, an independent body, will be able to do that. It is very important to note that. The appeal body, the Council for Aliens' Contests, is, of course, and will remain the appeal body for foreign affairs. It's done all the time. Nothing stands in the way of appealing to that. As has already been said, it is a suspensive action, so we do not lose the recognised refugee status until the court of appeal finalizes that judgment. Secondly, as regards the remark that it is about few people and that it is a symbolic act, I do not agree with it at all. At present, some fifteen Syrian fighters have been recognised as refugees. There are a number of them in Syria. If we approve this legislation tomorrow and it is published in the Belgian Official Journal, then there is nothing else I can do but send a letter to the Commissioner-General as soon as possible to ask if he can withdraw the refugee status of person X, Y or Z, who is currently in Syria and who is recognised as a refugee with a residence status in Belgium. Assuming that the facts weigh heavily enough and the Commissioner-General decides to withdraw, this means that the Foreign Affairs Office can withdraw the residence permit and that that person will no longer enter the Schengen area. There's nothing symbolic about that. That is very concrete. It's about six people from Tsetchenia right now. This is not a virtual discussion. I think that is very good of the presentation by Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr Bonte. This is very concrete. This is about people who are currently in Syria. Give us this instrument... If the Commissioner-General decides in complete independence to withdraw their refugee status, this means very concretely that if we can do everything as we should, people will not be able to enter Europe anymore. We must, of course, take account of the weight of a number of facts. These facts, however, take place every day with those Syrian fighters. I don't have to draw a picture. Anyone can read the press on it. This is not about Belgians, Dutch or French, but they are recognised as refugees. As long as they are recognised, they can enter every day. If they are inside, we can still withdraw their refugee status. The Commissioner-General can still decide this, but the difference is that they are already here. They are no longer recognised as refugees at that time. I can then withdraw their right of residence, but they are still on European territory. One could then decide to send them back, but then they will talk about the forced return of Chechens to Chechnya. After all, I assume that they will not return voluntarily. Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights always comes up. This article states that no one can be sent back to a country where there is a threat of torture, aggravated abuse or death. It is therefore much better to try to ensure that these people, who are in Syria, do not enter Europe. At a time when they are in Europe, one can still act, but this will be less effective in any case because one cannot send them away. We have also had this debate in committee. The problem of a non-repatriable one is known throughout Europe. It's also a very old problem. Let me give you an example. During the genocide in Rwanda, a number of people fled to Europe. They have applied for asylum here. Now, however, it turns out that those people were themselves genocidal, war criminals. Of course, these people were not protected because they were themselves genocidal. This would have been awesome. But we cannot send them back to Rwanda because of the absolute nature of Article 3. Those people are currently on European territory. They're here now. This is nothing new, this has been so for decades. I said in committee that I would like to know if anyone in this Chamber knows the answer to this. One can break one's head about that for a long time. There is also an article in the Aliens Act which states that the persons concerned can be sent to a third country. Once upon a time, our country tried, but it didn't succeed. This has led to a lot of diplomatic problems. There is no third country that accepts such people. Even if they were to be given a bag of money, no one would do so, because no one will get it sold in their parliament. The claim that this is symbolic is therefore absolutely not correct. I can even tell you that it is very specific about a number of cases, which I will start immediately as soon as the law comes into force after approval in the Chamber and publication in the Belgian Official Journal. It's not just a threat to national security. It is also very clear about refugees or candidate refugees who have been definitively convicted of a particularly serious crime. Honestly, I don't understand what's going on here. Mrs Matz, you say that the notion of a particularly serious infringement is not clear. Yet the CDH, the PS, as well as the other parties, have passed a law adapting the 1980 Aliens Act saying, in section 55/4, that if someone has received subsidiary protection or application, they can refuse it or withdraw it in case of a serious offence. This is not even in the case of a particularly serious infringement. That is what we are proposing today. So you have to explain to me where your criticism comes from, because I honestly do not understand it. I understand that Green criticises it, because they did not approve it at the time; I looked it up. The CdH, the PS and all the other critical parties, Mrs De Coninck, eventually agreed in committee, and she has therefore dropped the criticism in this Parliament that it is possible to refuse subsidiary protection status on the basis of Article 55.4 of the current Foreign Law. There are two types of protection: refugee status, which is somewhat higher internationally, and subsidiary protection status, which also offers very strong international protection and, fortunately, was introduced into our country a few years ago. Article 55.4 of the Aliens Act provides that subsidiary protection may be refused or withdrawn on the basis of a serious crime, une fraction grave. You're asking me what that is. You are asking me to clarify what I mean by that. Why didn't you do it then? Why should we now have a debate on something that you yourself introduced a few years ago? I don't understand. Maybe I'll hear about it in a minute. In addition, we add une integration particularement grave. In fact, we offer even more certainty by making it even stronger. I would also like to say that this is literally from the European directive. That is probably why it was introduced by you at the time. So that is literally in the European directive that was transposed. I understand the concerns of certain parties, which, I think, is shared by everyone, including myself. Will the government withdraw the refugee status of someone who drives through the red light a few times, just to say anything? A felony, une infraction, is of course a container concept. I understand that, but the withdrawal of subsidiary protection, possibly on the basis of a serious crime, has never happened. That process has been in the foreign law for years, but has never been applied, because the Commissioner-General does not. If we appeal to the Council of Foreign Ministers, the judges will of course not say that refugee status and other particularly strong international protection status can be lost for a number of violations of traffic legislation. Of course something like that doesn't pass. It is, of course, about murderers or persons who have committed other very serious acts. Otherwise, it will not be accepted at all by the Commissioner-General, let alone by the Council for Foreign Affairs, which I hope you will be aware of very carefully everything that has to do with European directives, international legislation, Article 3 and all other articles of the ECHR. Of course it does, and it's a good thing it does. We are, of course, such a rule of law. I am therefore looking at these comments. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will have that discussion again, if necessary. On the subject of the opinion, you say that all we need is an opinion from the Commissioner-General. It is not yet a binding opinion. It shouldn't even be binding. For the record, it is not about withdrawing or not granting refugee status. For example, it concerns someone whose refugee status has been revoked or not granted and who wants to repatriate the Foreign Office. What are we doing in such a situation? It has been preceded by a long, intense and good discussion, but we have chosen not to make it binding. There are several reasons for this. I'm declaring myself. The situation in certain countries may change. Repatriations are sometimes possible today and tomorrow is no longer possible. I refer specifically to Guinea. There are currently no forced removals to Guinea, which does not mean that repatriation to Guinea would not be possible again if Guinea were declared Ebola-free. The situation can therefore change. I am also thinking of Chechnya. There are no repatriations to Nepal, for example, but that can change. If, after the earthquake, it stands literally and figuratively a bit straight again, then we might be repatriating again. So there are influence factors. In that sense, I would also like to say that Article 3 is absolute. We will never send anyone back if the review of Article 3 is not passed. The best example of this is the current situation, also introduced by the cdH, the PS and co. At the moment, there is not even any advice from the CGVS. This is very clearly about Article 1F of the Convention on Refugees, which stipulates that war criminals are excluded from asylum or refugee status. Let me give you a concrete example. An Afghan comes here and asks for asylum. The interview shows that he is the big boss of the Taliban in a particular province, that he has been involved in the system and actually has a lot on his conscience. Article 1F is rightly invoked, and perhaps everyone agrees on this, because that man was general in the Taliban army................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He'll be in the country illegally. Assuming that we want to send him back to Kabul, there is currently no need for advice from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Now we'll put that in. We are therefore introducing an additional opinion, an additional protection, so that we would certainly not do anything stupid. Of course we're not sending him back to Kabul. Article 3 is absolute. Not even the general who might have a lot on his plate, we're not sending him back. 'Cause what happens to him if that gets out? That man won't live long. Well, that's not gonna happen. The previous government did not do so, Mr Wathelet did not do so, nor did the ministers for him. We're not crazy! We don't do that! We are now introducing an additional guarantee. We are introducing an opportunity for advice which is not yet available, so that we are sure that there is sufficient legal certainty that Article 3 is not being violated and that we are not sending anyone back to a country where his life is threatened. So we're just putting more guarantees into the foreign law. So we are ensuring greater legal certainty for everyone. We want to have a very effective policy, but we are equally ready with those who want to take advantage of our hospitality. We act against them, they no longer have asylum and no protection status. If they are in Syria, we will all move in and they will not enter Europe. That's what this is about. That's not symbolic at all. That is the essence of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u144	Thank you, Mr Francken. I already have a few requests for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u145	Mr President, I will try to be very brief. I would like to respond to the Minister's comments on the offence of intent and the UN recommendation to take decisions in this regard. I think he is familiar with public international law. I will therefore not insult him to remind him that the resolution is not binding. It's a first thing. In my view, this argument has neither scope nor legal value. Secondly, I would remind him that when there is transposition into Belgian law, it is in accordance with the conditions inherent in Belgian law, including the principle of legality which must be respected. This is the reminder of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u146	Mr President, I note that the great cordiality and constructive spirit that reigned have disappeared since Theo Francken's reply. "You did it; no, you did it!" Will we finally be given substantive arguments? Either you join this project with the Terrorism measures - this is the thirteenth step - and then we know what we are talking about, or you are relying on other provisions that have nothing to do with terrorism. We are told that we are talking about the fight against terrorism. Thus, particularly serious offences are mentioned. These are terrorist offences. All you have to do is qualify them. If you don't, say it! This project did not need to be included in this discussion. You confuse apples and pears with what you claim to want to defend. In principle, we said we supported you. In terms of the opinion, it may be discussed whether or not it should be compliant. But I still don't see how it would bother you if it was in line, as long as it is present throughout the procedure and in view of all the guarantees contained in Article 3. I do not understand why, especially since you seem to say that, in any case, this will be the case and that, of course, you will follow this opinion. Why, then, is it not compliant? I therefore remain with the two amendments that we have tabled on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u147	Mr Secretary of State, I have one more substantive question for you. Why do you not want to list the crimes that give rise to the withdrawal of the refugee status? Why do you use the vague description of a particularly serious crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u148	Mr De Vriendt, we have already discussed this in detail in committee. It is indeed possible to discuss whether a number of crimes should be valued or not. We decided, after a long discussion, not to do so. Firstly, the European directive makes that perfectly possible. Secondly, this is already included in Article 55, 4e in relation to subsidiary protection. That discussion was not made explicit at the time, but well, it can now be conducted. It is more coherent, because in the case of subsidiary protection, there is a serious crime, and we are now making it particularly serious crime. That's just more coherent. If we were suddenly to assess refugee status specifically on a number of articles in criminal law, that would not make sense. In that case, I believe, we would have had problems with subsidiary protection. The third reason is that I am convinced that the Commissioner-General is sufficiently wise and sensible to make a judgment on this matter. If that were not the case, the Council would be destroying foreign disputes. I believe that, as in the case of subsidiary protection, it is the right choice to give a wider margin. I certainly understand the vigilance of your group that this does not apply to everything. It is true that a person is not simply deprived of refugee status. That's a very difficult decision. I am convinced that we have sufficient guarantees, with the Commissioner-General and with the Council for Foreign Affairs as the appeal body, that there will be no stupid things happening, and that status will only be taken away in very serious cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u149	(...) I am pleased that with your statement it is a difficult decision to take away someone's refugee status. This indeed has consequences within Europe. However, the draft law also allows temporary subsidiary protection to be reduced. The draft law contains a number of provisions on this matter. When can we do that? This is possible if the foreigner has committed a crime in the country of origin which would be punishable by imprisonment if the crime had been committed in Belgium. The measure is therefore delimited and concrete in that case. We do not understand why you did not opt for a more specific definition for the withdrawal of the refugee status, whereas it was possible for subsidiary protection. You have explained that you have discussed and thought about this, but in our humble opinion you have chosen the wrong option to speak of a particularly serious crime which, as I said, is not legally defined terminology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u150	Mr. Maingain left the session and I will chain on his behalf. I come back to Mr Geens' remarks The concern of Mr Maingain and our party, in the case of the imam that will be expelled, is that this man will go elsewhere to continue preaching. We encourage him to continue to do wrong and to reproduce the behaviour he has adopted here in Belgium. There is a well-known legal breach here. I would like to stress again this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u151	I thank the Ministers for their answers. I would like to stress the OCAM. Our group shares your view. OCAM is the best-placed public actor to carry out this work with the support services around it. We are quite on the same wavelength as you. I am pleased to learn that you want to take the initiative with the federated entities and the Communities to add their essential skills in the fight against radicalism and terrorism. For the rest, you have not answered certain questions, particularly in terms of the budget, and we are looking at our positions. I would like to conclude on this matter to Mr. Franken and Geens. You spoke earlier, Mr Franken, of those people who are subject to withdrawal and removal, for whom expulsion is not possible. Do you realize the situation we will find ourselves in? These people will find themselves in the territory, inexpellable, and will continue to act. With regard to people who have a desire to harm and commit terrorist acts, we see the limits of the logic that you are defending. Therefore, the issue of incrimination and conviction is on the table, Mr. Geens. We cannot leave people in our territory who carry a potential threat to them. This issue needs to be considered by the government. You want to expel a person and you can't, but you know well that that person is a potential threat to society. I can't keep up with your logic anymore. So do things end there? Mr. Franken said: "We cannot expel. Point on the line ' It's not right. We cannot accept that people who may be dangerous to our society are not criminalized. I think we'll probably come back with this debate when we get back to school, because I see that... You don't agree, but Mr. Franken said it earlier. We will not be able to expel them; they will remain in the territory. You resign yourself to the presence on Belgian territory of people who could commit terrorist acts. Is that it? This means that you are in a finding and not in a proposal to find solutions. You're part of the government. You need to make proposals to find solutions. You can't just be an observational agent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u152	Mr Kir, I think I have already explained this in committee, but you were not there. You can give me ideas. Really, I'm always open to good ideas. If, for example, a genocidaire from Rwanda asks for asylum in Belgium, we will not grant it, we cannot even grant it under Article 1f of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, because it is an oorlogsmisdadiger, he has committed a war crime. We cannot grant him asylum. But what should we do? We can put him in jail if the case is heavy. When he leaves prison, he is still in illegal residence, irregular, he has no papers or residence permits in Belgium. Normally, we can expel a person who does not have a residence permit in Belgium. We must return him to his country of origin, Rwanda. But we cannot do so under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So if you have a solution, I'm interested! It's not new. You experienced this when you were in the government, many times. Similar cases exist in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. What to do with them? We cannot return them because of article 3 (non-refoulement). You can never send a person, even a genocidary, back to a country of origin where he is threatened with torture or death. We can't do it, and that's normal. We cannot give him refugee status even taking into account the Geneva International Convention. There is no solution. If you have a solution, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u153	Mr Franken, your example does not refer to terrorism or radicalism. This is a situation for which you stress a problem. Today, we are gathered as part of the government's policies against radicalism and terrorism. This is another situation of extreme danger, which shockes us. If you simply apply a withdrawal, what happens? People lose their status for a given period of time but can continue to act. We must have sufficient evidence to go further on the basis of new legislation. We will come back to committee with proposals, Mr Franken. A reflection has just been made in this Chamber on the initiative of Mr Maingain, relayed by others. In my view, not criminalising someone who may be a threat to Belgium is a concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u154	Mr Kir, I really don't understand you! Sharia4Belgium was convicted in Antwerp. This conviction was handed down under the pre-2013 legislation. The court has severely punished all kinds of people who have not committed any terrorist act as such. They only belonged to a terrorist group and preached hatred. In 2013, under the government in which your party participated, we greatly expanded terrorist incriminations, such as incitement to hatred. It is clear that the evicted imam mentioned by Mr. Franken could probably have been punished under this 2013 criminalization. Today, in 2015, we are proceeding with a new enlargement. And you keep saying that we are only seeing and that we are not moving forward! It's not serious! You must be familiar with the law before making such a statement, Mr. Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u155	Mr Geens, you are the Minister of Justice. What actions have been taken in this regard? Give your administration and the public prosecutor's office the means to do their job!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u156	Minister, what you have just said is incredible. You said that this radicalized imam could have been the subject of terrorist incrimination. We have been discussing for six hours how best to protect the Belgian population from the danger of radicalisation and terrorism. Do you think that this radicalized imam will be less dangerous in the Netherlands or in prison as a result of terrorist incrimination by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office? In my opinion, it would be less dangerous if he were arrested and interrogated by our police forces than in the Netherlands or a few kilometres from Verviers where he is now and where he can continue to preach hatred and embezzle young people. Stop him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u157	Mr Hellings, your question is irrelevant. I'm the Minister of Justice, I'm not pursuing. The only thing I can do from time to time is a positive injunction. And it is very rare for a Minister of Justice to do so. What I can't tolerate is that you act as if you hadn't passed the 2013 law. There are questions of opportunity. Mr. Franken made the decision he made. It could have been otherwise if a prosecutor had pursued him, that's all. We have an arsenal that allows us to do the right thing. We are not going to discuss a concrete case as if it were the end of the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u158	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u159	We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1200. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1200/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill 1200. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1200/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u160	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1170. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1170/6) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1170. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1170/6) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u161	• 5 – Vanessa Matz cs (1170/2) • 2 – Vanessa Matz (1170/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u162	• 4 – Hans Bonte cs (1170.2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u163	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and on the Rule and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u164	****** We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1197. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1197/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1197. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1197/4) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u165	• 2 – Vanessa Matz cs (1197/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u166	• 3 – Vanessa Matz (1197/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u167	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u168	****** We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 1198. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1198/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1198. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1198/4) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u169	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u170	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Thiébaut referred to his written report
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u171	Mr President, my speech will be as brief as my speech in committee on this matter. It is obvious that the safety of ships flying the Belgian flag must be ensured. Pirates attack ships with heavy weapons or take them hostage. That must of course be avoided. This poses a threat in several areas. That is why my group is in favour of the content of this bill. There's also one but attached to it. There is something to be noticed in the way of working. The final deadline for this draft law was 28 June 2015, and an implementing decision extended it by six months. The government was well aware of the deadline and of this problem. However, it has taken five months to submit a draft law to the Council of State for its opinion. As a result, this draft was submitted only five days before the ultimate deadline. We do not dispute the retroactive effect of this bill. At the moment, that's the best of the bad solutions. But retroactivity does not prevent legal uncertainty, which the government could have avoided perfectly. Moreover, evaluation is very important. Our group is proposing an annual evaluation to the Council of Ministers and to Parliament. This is perhaps important for Mr Vuye and his group, since he referred to a democratic rule of law. We have tabled an amendment to obtain an annual evaluation by Parliament and the government. Efficiency is very important in this measure and in order to ensure it, a five-year evaluation, as envisaged in the draft, is far too little. Where necessary, measures need to be adjusted, and that is why we have tabled that amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u172	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1199/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1199/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill amending the law of 16 January 2013 on various measures relating to the fight against maritime piracy". The title in French has been amended by the commission in "Bill amending the law of 16 January 2013 on various measures relating to the fight against maritime piracy". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u174	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u175	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u176	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Jadin refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u177	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1039/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1039/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to my written report, but I would like to stress one point. This Convention concerns the tenibility of agricultural work. It is important because it aims to address the issue of occupational safety and health in agriculture. We have often heard in this House the interest of our colleagues in this notion of penitibility. I would remind you that the agricultural sector shares, with the extractive industries and construction, the sad privilege of being one of the three most dangerous sectors in the world. There are powers in our federal state that depend on the regions, but there are also powers within the federal state. That is why, Minister, the MR Group is pleased that you have introduced this bill to give effect to this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u181	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u182	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1040/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1040/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u183	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u184	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the three draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vandenput, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u186	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1081/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1081/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u187	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1103/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1103/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u188	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1143/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1143/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u189	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u190	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Jadin, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u191	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1082/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1082/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u192	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u193	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u194	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u195	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1096/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1096/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u196	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1144/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1144/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u197	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u198	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luykx, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u199	Mr President, I have already argued extensively in committee with Mr van Groen and Mr PS against the fact that the government is proposing to conclude a treaty for the exchange of information with Bermuda. We are against this because, through such actions, Belgium is making itself an accessory to the granting of respectability to a notorious tax haven. In addition, we go against the explicit wish of the OECD that, for Objective 6 of the BEPS programme, the Member States of the OECD should be particularly careful to deal with the current conclusion of fiscal agreements with tax havens. In committee, we have tried, with the united opposition, to bring government majority to a different view. Unfortunately, that didn't work out. You cannot be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen: we give respect to a notorious tax haven and we are against the internationally organized fight against tax fraud through tax havens. We are therefore making ourselves complicit in this. We very much regret this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u200	Mr President, we have had a very long debate on this in committee. I therefore refer to the answers in committee. The exchange of information and intelligence is very important, including with those countries. That was why we said that we should go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u201	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u202	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1099/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1099/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u203	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u204	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u205	Mr President, at the request of Mr Van Biesen, I will repeat our objections from the committee. We know from experience that agreements of this kind, concluded by a rich, industrial country, in this case Belgium, and a developing country, such as Rwanda, are being used quite unilaterally, for the benefit of the rich country and for the benefit of Rwanda on the other hand. I also asked the Minister in committee if he could give us an overview of the use made of these agreements by developing countries, and in the past by Rwanda. I have noted that this information is not contained in the report. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister to give us information on this, so that we can, on the basis of facts, decide whether or not I am right, namely that this is a one-way street, to the detriment of the developing country and to the advantage of the rich industrial country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u206	Mr President, we will try to provide the members of the External Relations Committee with more information against the next committee meeting. For the rest, I would like to say that we are in favour of concluding such agreements, including with developing countries. Such agreements often come at the request of these countries. It offers the advantage of investing in those countries. It is not the first time that Mr Van der Maelen and I have disagreed on a double taxation treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u207	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u208	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1100/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1100/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u209	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u210	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dallemagne, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u211	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1101/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1101/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u212	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u213	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u214	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be particularly brief. I would like to thank Minister Reynders, who finally released a whole series of dossiers at the previous meeting of the Committee on External Relations. This is particularly exemplary, as it is a 1995 document with an amendment in 2006 and where, finally, we already have ratification. The minister has already released a whole series of them in recent months. Unfortunately, we will still have to make up for a delay which sometimes dates back more than 20 years. What is important in this project is the famous International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA). It's not an ordinary institute. This is where our former Prime Minister, Yves Leterme, is. We need to take this opportunity to learn more about the work, its actions on the ground and its analysis of a few elections in preparation, particularly those taking place in the coming months in Central Africa. I am thinking of the unfortunate Burundi. I propose that we invite Mr Leterme to the Committee on External Relations at the beginning of the year and ask him about all the issues and collaborations that IDEA has with other organisations or services with the same objective, including the Belgian Department of Foreign Affairs. Mr President, even if the smooth running of an electoral process does not satisfy all the imperatives of democracy, which is much more than the simple electoral technique, the organisation of an election is the moment when democracy regains its full vigour. We know in this chamber how important it is. This is the moment when decision-makers meet with voters, the moment when the public's opinion is expressed on key issues. With the dialogue between the constituted bodies, the political alternation, the responsibility of the executive before the parliament and the separation of powers, the proper organization of a vote is each time democracy on its bases. We must therefore of course support this type of organization and the MR group, of course, supports it as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u215	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u216	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1102/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1102/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u217	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u218	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Lijnen, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u219	Mr President, we will have another debate tomorrow on the need for Greece. This text offers us an opportunity. I have also advocated this in committee. This text will enable the exchange of information between Greece and Belgium. Unlike in the past, Belgium can no longer hide behind banking secrecy in order not to give information about capital placed on Belgian banks to the other Contracting Party. So this is an important text, because that means that if the Greek Finance Minister asks the Belgian Finance Minister to obtain information on capital held by Greeks in Belgian accounts, we can provide that information. Between 2009 and 2014, EUR 70 billion of capital was transferred from Greece. Research at the Bank for International Settlements has made it clear that Greece has placed EUR 120 billion in tax havens. This is the same amount as Belgians have in tax havens, but our national income is four times greater than that of Greece. It thus proves that Greece has had a problem with undeclared money, tax evasion and tax evasion in recent years. Everyone will agree to that. I proposed to the Minister of Finance in committee to contact Greece and to say that, not only like this government, we confess that we want to help Greece, but that we will do so in concrete terms, and that, at the simple request of the Greek Minister of Finance, we will provide all the information about the capitals that Greeks have in Belgian accounts. The Minister's answer was very laconic: they should only organize fiscal amnesty in Greece. I'm sorry I had to establish that. I asked the Prime Minister the same question. Minister Reynders gave me at least one more answer, but I repeated my question without having received an answer from the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask my question a third time in your presence. I would ask the Foreign Minister, who is here: is Belgium prepared to help Greece fight against the flight of capital from that country on the basis of this text which we will approve tomorrow? The measures adopted by your government last weekend in respect of the ordinary Greek, which has already suffered severely, reduced pensions by 40%, dismissed 200 000 officials, all civil servants -20 %, 50 % to 60% of young people in unemployment, the impossibility of buying certain medicines leading to very serious interventions in Greek society for which you bear the responsibility and which you now want to tighten up. However, that is tomorrow's debate. Will this right-wing government in Belgium at least also make an effort to help Greece organise a fair distribution of the country's budget deficits by helping it fight against the heavy capital flow of usually very wealthy Greeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u220	Mr van der Maelen, I have the impression that you are approaching the problem with the Greek tax administration very unilaterally. One of the biggest problems in Greece is, of course, the debts which the Greeks have all held together as tax debts to the Greek tax authorities. There are 87 billion euros in tax debts. You also know that the tax administration in Greece is not working at all. Are we prepared to help with that? We certainly are, and we have already proved that. Besides, we're not alone. Other euro area countries are also willing to help. Germany offers 500 tax officials to support Greece to finally collect taxes correctly. We also did this: Belgium had two VAT specialists on site, specializing in tackling the large organised fraud involving VAT carousels. Those specialists have done a good job there, but it is not yet marching in Greece. You also see what happened. Help is often refused. Those specialists are just being watched outside. So I would really not approach the problem unilaterally, but look at the responsibilities of the successive governments of Greece. The PASOK regime was equally bad, Syriaza is a lot worse now. You are also talking about the flight of capital in Greece, but it has never been as large as since the arrival of Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u221	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Dedecker that I agree with him. I think you are going to open an open door, Mr Dedecker, if you say that there is a problem with the operation of the Ministry of Finance in Greece. You are right to say that there are still many outstanding tax debts of Greek citizens. I think it would be wise to try to get this Ministry of Finance together with all kinds of other help. I wonder why, on the basis of the agreement that will be approved here tomorrow, you will not receive the help in the form of this information, such a weak-performing Ministry of Finance. We supported the agreement in committee. We shall be voting in favour of this tomorrow. I wonder if you wouldn't give that information to that weak-performing Treasury Department on a plate. They can then do something about it. As far as we are concerned, this can be done with the support of foreign specialists. If you do not agree, if this government does not do so, this is yet another proof for me that this is a government that will not go beyond words in terms of aid to the Greeks. This government is not doing anything to actually help that country. My question is therefore whether the N-VA will propose to its own finance minister to contact his colleague, the Greek Minister for Finance. The previous Greek Minister for Finance may have left, but the Minister has already met with Tsakalotos for a few hours. He must know the man by now. Will the N-VA ask its Finance Minister to contact his Greek colleague and make this information available to him?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u222	As you say, it does come from both sides. We have offered help in various areas, including VAT officials. It is not just about offering aid; it is also about accepting aid. Over the past few years, Mr Van der Maelen, the shoe was wringing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u223	Test the new government, test the new finance minister, and you'll see how he reacts. If he takes that help in thanks, so much better. If he does not accept that help, I will, along with you, criticise him for not taking that opportunity. But I'm sure he'll seize that opportunity with both hands. However, the Belgian political will must be there to do so, and I have my doubts about this, quite frankly, even after this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u224	Mr President, let me reply on behalf of the government. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van der Maelen for his support for the government's draft. Thanks to such a design, it is possible to exchange information, even about bank data. We have already provided assistance to the tax administration in Greece, not just on VAT or customs. We're willing to do more. Finally, it is not useful to ask for something to do, because it is already done. I was in Greece before the referendum. That's where I talked to my colleague. I told him that we could arrange an exchange of information at the request of Greece. My colleague's answer was that there are two ways. The first consists of the exchange of information, the second is a regularization. Maybe it's already been decided by your friends from Syria to make a real regularization for Greek money that's in foreign accounts. This is part of the Greek Government's plans. So we will probably also provide technical assistance in the two areas, not just on the exchange of information, but also, if necessary, on the regularization, as decided by the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u225	The success of regularization, Minister, depends on the willingness of, in this case, the Greek who is in Belgian accounts with his capital. If he or she does not want to take advantage of this regularization, then the weak administration of finance in Greece can never know. If you really want to help the Greek tax authorities, Mr Foreign Minister and Mr Decker, I am addressing you because your minister is not here, then you are offering this information to the Greek tax authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u226	I have just said that we will do so! Stop asking such questions. I've already answered it ten times. We shall do so on the basis of that text. Thank you for your support, for a draft from the government. You always ask the same questions. I have already answered it in committee, and now again. We are prepared to do so, at the request of the Greek Government, in order to properly implement such a bill. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u227	I know our government and our minister. I will ask a question in three months' time, Minister, if necessary, so that you can show me how you have made what you have said with words. Then I want to see whether information has actually been transferred from Belgium to Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u228	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u229	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1141/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1141/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u230	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u231	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u232	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u233	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1142/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1142/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u234	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u235	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Capoen, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u236	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1145/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1145/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u237	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u238	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u239	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u241	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1147/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1147/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u242	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u243	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u244	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u245	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u246	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1148/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1148/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u247	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u248	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Cheron, rapporteur, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u249	Mr President, I am glad to be able to give my opinion to the minister, who was unfairly scratched this morning. This dossier is an exciting sign of its willingness to bring several reforms to fruition. There was unanimous agreement that the former Advisory Committee for Railway Travellers was, at the very least, inefficient and inefficient. In the spring, in the Committee on Infrastructure and Public Enterprises, the Minister made a swift commitment to present a project that would improve the way this committee operates. I want to say, and it is not because I am MR, that the minister has fulfilled her commitments. It's important! In the very near future, this committee will be able to function. It should be noted that the draft introduces the obligation for the delegated directors of SNCB and Infrabel to report annually to the House of Representatives on the performance of the public service tasks entrusted to them through a hearing and the new working method of the Council, which will allow for a direct exchange. We have no doubt that the Minister will show the same willingness to bring her other projects to fruition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u250	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u251	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1195/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1195/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u252	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u253	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u254	Mr President, thanks to the good work of the services, I can easily refer to the written report, which is a perfect summary of the debates that have taken place. I would like to add immediately that we think it is a very good thing that subsidies are being continued. Especially in the case of distributed transport, this is vital in order to prevent the transports that could be carried out by rail from being carried out by road. We must avoid that at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u255	Mr President, Minister, the present draft law, which continues to support combined and distributed rail transport, is welcomed. The intention should be to remove as many containers as possible from the road to the track. Because the difference in cost is still too large, this cannot be done without some support. Rail cannot compete with the road transport operator because of the difference in cost. It is mainly the port companies that have raised the alarm. They feel the need for more efficient transport of their customers' containers. They opt for faster and safer rail transport but are at non-competitive cost prices. Shippers therefore opt for other European ports, wherever rail is subsidised. Aid measures should also aim at changing behaviour and should not only be seen and used as a flat subsidy. It is also good that they are limited to 2016. In 2017, an evaluation will be carried out before deciding whether we support logistics transport by rail. This measure actually helps the economy and employment. We will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u256	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u257	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1194/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1194/1) The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-15-54-plenair-ip063x.u258	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 July 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 16 July 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
