ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u2	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, we learned with sadness the death, on Friday 26 December 2014, at the age of 90, of our former colleague, René Jérôme. This former professor of mathematics at Collège Saint-Vincent de Soignies was a member of our assembly, for the PSC, from 1977 to 1991 as well as a quaker for three years. René Jérôme began his political career at local level. He was elected mayor of Zinnik in 1959 and in 1965, and was mayor of Zinnik for about twenty years. Our former colleague was chairman of the district federation of Christian Democratic Mandates. As a member of the College of Quaestors of the Chamber, René Jérôme was particularly committed to improving the infrastructure and working tools of the representatives of the people and wanted to have the same resources as the government. It is under his leadership that computer science is gaining momentum in our assembly. Many tools were put in place, such as the "Parolis" legislative file, the press articles database and the automation of parliamentary Annals. Our former colleague was a courteous and affable man who conceived the exercise of a political mandate and responsibilities that accompany him as a service to the population. I have expressed to the wife of our former colleague the heartfelt condolences of our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my condolences on the death of our colleague and to echo the words of the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u4	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, Jacques Vandenhaute, a former member of our assembly, died on Saturday, December 27, 2014, at the age of 83. A graduate of the Hautes Études Commerciales in Lausanne, our former colleague finds himself, at the age of 25, at the head of a large textile company in the Benelux. As a result, he became treasurer of the Union of Middle Classes of the time. He joined the PLP, the Freedom and Progress Party. In 1971, he was directly elected alderman of Sports, Youth and Culture, a portfolio he enjoyed. A high-level sportsman during his youth, he played hockey at the La Rasante club, was a ski champion and amateur driver at Ferrari. In the 1983 municipal elections, Jacques Vandenhaute was the victor and with his mayor's list he won the absolute majority over and over again in 2006. He was mayor of St. Peter's-Woluwe for 24 years. As a defender of the municipal interests, he was very close to the inhabitants, for whom he made an unconditional commitment. For example, he worked for the upgrading of public space, the development of sport infrastructure and the improvement of living conditions. He was also one of the driving forces in the air traffic pollution file in and around Brussels from 1991. When he had served for fourteen years in the Senate from 1981 to 1995, Jacques Vandenhaute was elected as a People's Representative. He served in the Chamber until 1999 and was also a quaestor. In the Federal Parliament, he was particularly active in the committees of the interior, agriculture and middle classes and foreign trade. We will remember him as a man of lively humour, who knew how to establish direct and sincere contact with all those who crossed his path. Jacques Vandenhaute was a hard worker, a man of records but also, despite a certain obstinacy, a man listening to the other. On behalf of the House, I have extended our deepest condolences to the family of the deceased.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u5	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I would like to associate myself with the tribute you have just paid to Mr Jacques Vandenhaute and to stress his commitment, first of all at local level as an agent invested in his commune, invested in a series of issues of economic development, trade and sport. He also played a role in this very important assembly. I also wish, on behalf of the government, to join in your expression of sympathy to his family and to all his relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u6	Let us observe a minute's silence in his memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u7	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, we learned with regret the death on Tuesday, January 6, 2015 of our former colleague, Louis Olivier. Born in Bastogne in 1923, Louis Olivier will remain in our memory as the last national minister of public works and one of the artisans of the regionalization of the country. After Greek-late humanities at the Collège Saint-Michel in Brussels, Louis Olivier studied law at the Université catholique de Louvain. Doctor of law in 1946, lawyer at the Bar of Neufchâteau before becoming a member of the Order, he then joined the Liberal ranks in politics. For more than ten years he was a county council member in Luxembourg. And from 1958 he was a city council member in Bastenaken, where he also became mayor on 1 January 1965. He remained until the merger of the municipalities in 1976. In the same year he also entered the Chamber and remained MP until 1991. Louis Olivier also resided in the Conseil économique regional de Wallonie, the embryo of the later Walloon Region. In 1973 he became Secretary of State for Administrative and Institutional Reforms in the Leburton Government. From October 1973 to January 1974 he was Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and remained responsible for Institutional and Administrative Reforms. He took part in the Steenokkerzeel Conclave in April 1974, which had the character of a "community-to-community" negotiation. This negotiation failed on the problem of the delimitation of the Brussels region, leading to the constitution of a minority Tindemans government in the House. In addition to his duties as Minister of the Middle Classes, he also obtained the State Secretariat for Forests, Hunting and Fisheries when this government opened at the Walloon Assembly. He will also be appointed Minister of Public Works after Jean Defraigne's departure, a position he will hold until June 3, 1977. Our former colleague joined the majority in voting for the 1980 state reform. From 1981 to 1988, he was a member of all governments led by Wilfried Martens. He was Minister of Public Works, to which the middle classes were added between 1983 and 1985. With the transfer of Public Works to the Regions in 1988, Louis Olivier was the last holder of that portfolio at national level. During his term of office at the head of that ministry he realised a series of major projects, such as the construction of the motorways E411 (Namen-Neufchâteau) and E25 (Liege-Bastogne-Luxembourg), the completion of the gas terminal at Zeebrugge, and the Berendrechtsluis in the port of Antwerp, to this day the largest lock in the world. The realisation of that project not only changed the image of the Antwerp port but also that of the Belgian construction industry, because it also used new techniques. In 1991, Louis Olivier put an end to his parliamentary career, to concentrate exclusively on his good city of Bastogne. He would then serve as a communal councillor for the opposition until 1994, and then put an end to his political career. Louis Olivier was a jovial and sincere man, a good living close to his fellow citizens who hid, under his debonary air, a character whose determination was inflexible. It will have marked the political life of our country for two decades. We will keep the memory of him of a very endearing personality. On behalf of the House I presented our deepest condolences to his wife and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we regret the loss of Louis Olivier, the great minister who, as you recall, has participated in many governments and attached his name to many achievements in the field of public works. He held almost all the positions at the municipal and provincial levels, in the communal executive in Bastogne, of which he became mayor in 1965. He also served as a member of Parliament, MP PLP at the time. He will be minister many times; you have recalled him. He also carried out very important projects for the country, but also for the province of Luxembourg, to which he was very attached. In particular, it is due to the E411 motorway, which was officially opened in 1988, to open up the southern part of our country. He was also an extremely committed man who marked the history of our country. His sense of humour, listening, analytical skills and optimism will be remembered; they will also have marked the Belgian political assembly. For the anecdote, Louis Olivier, former master of the highways, was a man of tradition, a man whose family had distinguished itself, especially in the breeding of horses and in the horse tradition. The Olivier House of its forefathers ensured horse riding between Paris and Berlin. Olivier was also a labour executioner, a man of remarkable memory, very attached to his family, including in times when it was hard tested by fate. We offer our sincere condolences to his family and to his many friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u9	The President (in front of the standing assembly) Colleagues, we learned with regret the death in Toulon on Sunday, January 10, 2015 of our former colleague, Richard Gondry. Born in La Louvière in 1929 in a working family of six children, Richard Gondry studied as a teacher at the Provincial Normal School in Morlanwelz and also attended accounting classes at the Middle Industrial School in La Louvière. Richard Gondry began his teaching career. He taught in Ecaussines, La Louvière and Morlanwelz and turned to special teaching that was particularly dear to him. He took his first steps in politics at municipal level, as a member of the PS. In October 1952 he was elected city council member in La Louvière and three years later he became a ship of Public Works. After the municipal merger of 1976, he became first ships of La Louvière. During that legislature he moved to the neighbouring municipality of Le Roeulx, where he also became a city council member in 1982, but ended up in the opposition. Our former colleague entered the Chamber in 1971 in place of outgoing MP Marcel Collard. He was also Vice-President of the PS Group and Secretary of our Assembly. He remained MP until 1987. He first put his shoulders on files with an impact at the local level. For example, he was particularly interested in social policy, health care and helping people with disabilities. By the way, he was chairman of the Fédération Francophone pour la Promotion des Handicapés, the French-speaking Federation for Handicap Care. In an effort to leave his place to younger politicians, he decided not to run for a term of office as a Member of Parliament in 1987. A vice-president of the Centre's Federation of Socialist and Trade Union Mutualities, Richard Gondry was also president of the Centre Audiophonologie et de Logopédie de La Louvière. This Centre, renamed the Richard Gondry Logopedia Centre, continues to operate in Haine-Saint-Paul. Richard Gondry was a humble and generous man. Militant in his soul, he never deviated from his socialist convictions. After leaving active life, he left to live in France near Toulon, where he died on Sunday, January 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, we wish to express our deepest sympathy to the family of the late colleague. We are also happy to endorse your words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u11	Let us observe some moments of silence in memory of our late colleague Gondry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 16,900 is the official figure communicated by the ONEM concerning the number of people who lost, on 1 January, access to the integration allowances following the three-year limitation decided by the Di Rupo government. Among these 16,900 people, there is an immense majority of Walloons and Brussels, there is an immense majority of women. This is unacceptable to us! Even more serious, Mr. Minister of Employment, among these 16,900 people, there would be 1,500 disabled people without other resources who, since 1 January, have been in a huge difficulty. According to the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, these are people who do not have the capacity to work because they are too severely disabled, especially those who are blind. Minister, this is particularly shocking. This is all the more so in view of the fact that the Council, on a number of occasions, with particularly reasoned opinions, has alerted your Government and the precedent to this announced disaster. Hence my simple questions, minister. Can you give us a picture of the real situation of these people? How is it possible that your government and the previous one have not reacted to these repeated opinions, to this particularly heavy situation in the context of a measure that we have always denounced? Above all, what measures are you going to take, and how soon, to guarantee income for the 1,500 people concerned from this month of January?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u13	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, following the reform of the system of integration allowances adopted under the previous government, 1,500 people with disabilities are now without income. The information has been confirmed both by the ONEM and by the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH). However, if I am well informed, there were exceptions: a period of adjustment and an extension, for two months, of integration allowances for all persons with mental deficits. You had even announced that, compared to those who would not have had confirmation of this extension, the measure could be extended by an additional two months. The objective was clear: after a transitional period, they should receive an allowance for adults with disabilities. But today, 1,500 people are without income, which for my group, and for you too, is not tolerable. On the other hand, it seems that a particular category has been forgotten, i.e. the category of persons who do not reach the 15 points in the disability scale or 12 points if they do not reach 66% in terms of working capacity. Deputy Prime Minister, how long have you known about this situation? What are you proposing as an immediate measure for these people to be able to earn income? Have you ever contacted your colleague, Mrs Sleurs, the CSNPH, the ONEM and the Regions to discuss together what structural measures can be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u14	Mr Minister, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, we are beginning to see the effect of the measure introduced by the previous government, limiting the eligibility allowance to three years. The measure is mainly intended as an activation measure to lead graduates who do not find work immediately to work. Strikingly enough, the figures we have received show that two thirds of those at risk of losing benefit live in Wallonia and that about 75% are over 30 years old. This indicates that this group needs other guidance measures than a benefit for newly-qualified graduates looking for work. The most painful finding is that about 1 300 people are at risk of falling between two seats and losing their income, namely persons with a very severe disability. They are also required not to be able to extend their benefit if they do not step into an accompanying course. That is, of course, unacceptable. It is not possible for those concerned to be led to the labour market precisely because of their severe constraints. In fact, they do not belong in the system of benefits, but they must receive income on the basis of their disability. The problem was also known to the previous government, but it was unable to work out a solution before the end of the previous legislature, with the result that this group is in danger of falling out of the boat. That is, of course, unacceptable. There's no way they'd fall without income. We therefore ask, Minister, that you find a solution to the problem very urgently, so that this very vulnerable group is not affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the problem of integration benefits has been raised. This is not the first time that we have had a discussion on integration allowances. The issue before us concerns a group of 1,185 persons with disabilities. 1 185 people are affected. It concerns 118 people in Brussels, 6 people in the German Community, 938 in Wallonia and 123 in Flanders. These are people who were admitted to unemployment on the basis of their studies, unemployed without earning capacity. This means that, based on their pre-existing severe physical or mental disability, they are completely unfit for work. In other words, there are 1 185 disabled people who have entered the unemployment system through their studies, but who are totally disabled. For the sake of clarity, there is an extension of two years of the integration allowance for a group of disabled people who meet two conditions: firstly, a permanent incapacity of at least 33% and, secondly, a positive contribution to the guidance pathway of the regional employment service. That second condition cannot, of course, be fulfilled by the group of 1 185 persons. It is a very specific situation. You are right that those involved fall between two seats. They have so far been in the integration allowance system, but are now threatening to lose that benefit by the decision to limit the benefit to three years. In November 2014, the RVA already provided a first list to DG Persons with a Handicap. On 19 January 2015, a second file was delivered about the beneficiaries of an integration allowance which are considered to be without earning ability. That's 1 185 people. I can tell you, also in consultation with my fellow Secretary of State, that the problem will be resolved in the next few days by the Directorate-General for Persons with Disability, which has the power to grant a different benefit to those who are no longer entitled to benefits if they are entitled to it. We will do everything we can to ensure that none of these people are at risk of falling without benefits. For this month everything is still in order and from next month they will be eligible for a replacement income allowance as a disabled person. In this way, we will solve the problem of the 1 185 people concerned in a good way, otherwise they will be threatened with no benefit. I hope you'll be happy to learn that a solution has been found for these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u16	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I do take note of this commitment to find a solution. You have not explained which or when it will be applied. So we will return to you. I am astonished by the late awareness of each other of the effects of this measure. A population of 1,500 particularly fragile people has been mentioned, but a total of 16,000 people are closer to poverty and insecurity than to employment. Yesterday it was Mr. Di Rupo, Mr. Lutgen, today it is the CD&V and MR colleagues who realize it. This measure is not positive; it is ineffective and costly for the people concerned. The only way to do this is to go back. That is the meaning of the bill that we tabled last week and for which we will ask for urgent treatment by the Committee on Social Affairs. We must succeed in creating activity beyond the specific solutions for people with disabilities. We will ask you again next week to find out the details of the solution you are proposing and whether it comes into force this January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u17	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I can only be glad to see that this matter has been of concern to the government, both you and your colleague, Mrs Sleurs. Thanks to your response today, we will be able to reassure the people concerned that they will benefit from a replacement income. Thank you for processing the case quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and, above all, for the solution you have provided and for the way in which you have dealt with the problem together with your colleague. It is a structural solution for a very vulnerable group. It once again indicates that this is not a socialist government, but a social government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u19	Mr President, Minister, our farms are not doing well. About 40% of our agricultural families earn less than EUR 25 000. They're working their asses off, and they're putting money on it. There are a number of reasons for this. One of these causes is the poor pricing of their products in the sector. We are all flooded with general stunt advertisements that propagate dumped for fresh food. Thus they create the perception that quality is for sale at the lowest possible price. In my view, this shows very little respect for the first link of the food industry. For five years, agreements have been made at the chain talks, but unfortunately they are not always respected by everyone. In this way, the chain talks seem to evolve into an empty box. In December of last year, an agricultural organisation took action at the distribution centres of some discount chains to make it clear that it is five to twelve, in order to survive our farms. There was some result because in the meantime, the discount chains were around the table with the agricultural organizations and there is a rapprochement and mutual understanding. A sharp price can, but not at the expense of suppliers and farmers. In fact, all market players have to follow. The agricultural organisations demand a clear commitment from all actors in the chain dialogue. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, the functioning of the chain consultation clearly needs new impetus. What initiatives do you want to take to improve relations in this chain and optimise the functioning of the consultation? Secondly, the agricultural organizations are asking for the appointment of an officially independent mediator, someone who can clarify and resolve ongoing and unexplained discussions on price formation in the chain. There is the good example of the mediator in the United Kingdom, who performs her task in a very objective manner under the wings of the government. Are you prepared to examine this slope and, if necessary, introduce it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gantois, I hear that this is the first time you have asked questions here. I congratulate you very much and will try to provide a very good answer to your two questions. Your first question concerns the chain talks. You call it an empty box, but that's a little sharp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u22	You may not say it's an empty box, but you said that the danger of emptiness is imminent. I have scheduled a short meeting with all the agricultural organisations and everyone who has been involved in the chain talks in the past in order, as you asked, to give a new impetus to this. After the social dialogue, we will also try to restart the chain talks. From my contacts with the agricultural sector, I would like to point out that, in addition to the importance of chain consultations, we are also quite satisfied with the fact that the chain consultations in the past have produced, among other things, the beef index and other positive agreements. Then what does one do with such chords? You have a point. The inter-professional agreements and codes of conduct agreed in the framework of the chain consultation can and must be extended. There is a basis for this in Article 164 of the European Regulation of 17 December 2013 which allows us to declare the agreements generally binding on the whole sector. We will examine to what extent we can do this, because we must also take account of the powers of the Regions and Communities and those of the federal level. You are also asking about the supply chain initiative from the United Kingdom. That is a bit different, because in Belgium there is the Prize Observatory, which can and must also play a role in the problem. However, I am prepared to examine everything, especially if you ask. However, I do not know whether we can or should simply copy the situation in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which makes me partially happy because you will be discussing the code of conduct. It is true that competition is the driving force behind all economic growth. The market must then function for all the links in the chain. That is not the case now. I hope that through your conversations, trust will grow through the chain. That confidence is needed to make the chain talks work. If the producer is the victim of the food chain, then something is very wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we congratulate Mrs Gantois on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in the last few days my phone has been overheating! I get a lot of phone calls from worried workers. Workers from ArcelorMittal, Ford Genk or other companies sound to me and say: "Raoul, I have been lied to. I was lied to because when I was given the right to pre-pension, I was told that I should not be available in the labour market. Today, however, I am contacted by the ONEM who tells me that, following a change in the regulations, I must be available." It was by going scratching a bit in the Belgian Moniteur that we discovered a royal decree of 31 December 2014, which passed a bit in catimini and which did not make much noise. He indicated that all the exceptions that were introduced for lay-off had been cancelled. I am obviously talking about the exception for 56-year-olds with 40 years of career, the exceptions for careers over 38 years, exceptions for 58 years and exceptions for restructuring. All of these exceptions were set aside by a royal order on 31 December. This obviously leads to very concrete practical problems. Let me give you an example. I got another call this morning from Fred, an employee at Evonik, close to Antwerp. He's been working since he was 14 and he's never stamped. He just quit work. He received his C4 on January 4, 2015. Fred is 57 years old and learned that he is now unemployed, but that he must remain available, first passive, but after one year active, in the labour market. Let me give a second example. It's about Ford Genk. In the various agreements, it was clearly stated to the workers of Ford Genk that they could waive an exit premium in order not to enter the employment cell. That's what we're coming back to now. Finally, as far as ArcelorMittal is concerned, it's the same thing! Workers were promised that they would not be affected by the pre-pension conditions. Today, however, they are asked to be active. What I have a problem with, minister, is the retroactive effect. Indeed, on December 31, 2014, you returned to rights that had been given to workers today. It is a legal uncertainty that cannot be maintained. Minister, do you intend to reconsider this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, you know very well that, at the end of 2014, we asked the social partners for an opinion and we reached an agreement with the Group of 10 on the problem of pre-pension. We have accepted this agreement. We accepted that agreement. In the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, we made the decision on the system of unemployment with single payment, which is commonly known as the bridge pension. That decision also includes provisions on the availability of unemployed and bridge-retired persons. Since 1 January 2015, the unemployed who benefit from that SWT system, i.e. bridge pensioners, should remain available on the labour market until the age of 65. We have taken into account the responses of the social partners and others and included in that Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 a transitional measure for the unemployed and bridge-retired persons who reached the age of 60 on 1 January 2015. That group should therefore not be available on the labour market. A further problem has now arisen. Like me, you will have found that the Group of 10, the social partners did not report this problem at the end of 2014. They are now identifying an additional problem concerning those who are under 60 and who must also be actively or passively available to the labour market. That's a problem that's gonna make your phone ring a bell, do I understand? If my information is correct, this item is on the agenda of the Group of 10, which is negotiating again. I have to wait with you for the Group of Ten to discuss this. This federal government does decide to implement those royal decrees. I understand very well that the active and passive availability causes a lot of commotion. Maybe we can wait and see what the Group of 10 talks will bring, and then we can continue to exchange views.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u27	Minister, you say that there is no effective agreement on that point in the Group of 10. That suggests a consultation problem. I know you have the authority to deal with that problem. However, since there is no agreement in the Group of 10, I find it a little surprising that the government is forcing a royal decision on such an important point. Mr Minister, what is circulating today in very interesting literature, such as the FEB newsletter that I will transmit to you, is even more serious. It is very clear that lay-off is being voted for and will be implemented in a very offensive manner. Mr Minister, I could plead for social consultation, sociaal overleg, that you are making a moratorium on the decision taken by royal decree on 30 December 2014, so as to give way to social consultation and not to go into force to try to make it appear that this government is a social government, when it is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u28	Mr President, Minister, this book, the Koran, is the cause of a great deal of disaster: the source of all evil, a license to kill and a few more of those things. This book, the Qur'an, the basis of Islamic doctrine, is confessed in a fundamentalist way in many mosques in our country. Our country has 295 mosques if I may believe the list of the Union of Mosques. Perhaps a third belongs to the Salafist jihadist spirit, radically Sunnitic, and there is to a lesser or more extent recruited for the jihad, there violence is preached and so on. Then we are talking about the Bilalmoskee in Verviers, then we are talking about the central mosque nearby in the Cinquantenaire Park, still run, financed and led directly from Saudi Arabia. Then we are talking about a Pakistani mosque in the Oranjestraat in Antwerp. Then we are talking about 67 mosques of the Diyanet network, which are ultimately managed and financed and for which imams are provided by the Turkish government's Ministry of Religious Affairs. Then we're talking about other mosques, too many to mention. What is the government doing about this in its plan on radicality? Nothing. It will be dealt with in relation to the residence permits of a number of imams, but it is forgotten that these imams eventually preach in mosques run by mosque associations with all kinds of adherents. My question is therefore obvious and clear: what signal do we send to this kind of mosques? Shall we restrain them? Shall we close them? Will we ensure that the jihadisation of our society, the recruitment of ISIS and its associated people eventually have an end? What is the government doing about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u29	Mr Dewinter, first of all, to answer your questions specifically: there are two types of mosques, recognized and unrecognized. Recognized mosques are recognized by the Regions. If there are problems with this, the recognition should also be withdrawn by the regions. I suggest that you address your questions to the Regions in this regard. Secondly, there are the unrecognized mosques. This is covered by the regulation of nuisances. If there's any inconvenience at those mosques, it's the mayor's job to take action against it. Here too, we have no federal competence and neither can I answer any federal colleague. Yesterday we had a very serene debate on our plan for radicalisation. You weren't there, I don't think you would have thought that was important. All the other parties were there and showed their solidarity in a very serene way, shoulder to shoulder, to tackle together the problem of radicalism and terrorism. You'd have been better there, too. I've got to get something off my chest. You are standing here waving a book that many people in this country respect and for whom it is even a holy book. You're putting all that community in the armor against you. You tell all the people who respect that book that it is the basis of radicalism. We all know that there are radical and too radical extremist elements in that community. We all want to fight this, but for the dividing line you draw between Islam and the rest of our community, there is no support in this hemisphere from any other party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u30	Mr President, if the politically correct multicultural hemisphere is applauded, I can answer the Minister. I know that I find no support in this hemisphere. What interests me is not this hemisphere, but the man in the street. I can assure you that the judgment of the man in the street over Islam is very different from that of those who are in this ivory tower of the Rue de la Loi. I know there are a lot of moderate Muslims, and I agree with that. However, this does not mean that there is a moderate Islam and that the Qur'an would therefore be moderate. All the radicals, all the terrorists who are currently committing attacks, are calling on this book and its content, and so we must also dare to have the debate on Islam as such. I was on the committee for a while yesterday. I did not speak there because there is no point in having a debate on a number of measures which are limited to combating terrorism. We must dare to debate the foundations of Islam. Only then will you be able to solve the problems. As long as we do not do so, it will continue to talk for the many times and the attacks will continue to occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we already know that at the end of 2015, Infrabel will have at least 556 railway workers fewer. At the end of this year, a minimum of 556 workers will retire and will not be replaced. "We won't touch the rural lines." "We'll increase our capabilities." "We will continue to invest in security and personnel." That's what you used to say a few weeks ago. Here, you have skipped our legitimate questions by escaping behind the advice requested from the SNCB Group. SNCB and Infrabel now announce color! And the consequences of the drastic budget purging imposed by this government are without appeal, both for commuters and for railway workers. This will be a postponement of work and investments in Greek calends and a decrease in the number of railway workers. One-off savings, structural savings, efficiency plan are words that you have widely used. Behind the words are most often hidden from men and women, railwaymen proud of their profession, railwaymen who have the impression, today, of serving as an adjustment variable. The savings on staff represent €26 million, or more than 15% of the budgetary effort requested from Infrabel. Minister, how should railway workers understand the reduction in the number of workers and therefore the inevitable reduction in public services that this results in? Do they, as we think, have to fear for their future and should they expect a structural reduction in staff that could only weaken the SNCB Group a little more?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u32	Mr President, dear colleague, in December 2014, Infrabel's Board of Directors decided to reduce various internal costs from different operational directorates in order to save just over €45 million. At the same time, it was decided that the pace of recruitment would be slowed. Infrabel therefore decided that next year, only highly qualified and in short supply profiles, including electro-mechanicalians and engineers, will be recruited. The objective of Infrabel's decision is to save around 26 million euros, as an exceptional measure in 2015 and without any redundancies. More specifically, the number of full-time equivalents not replaced in 2015 is 556 for Infrabel. It is noted that some non-replacements are not linked to the savings measures decided by the previous and the current government but are the result of rationalization made possible by some projects. The total attrition expected in 2015 is therefore 859 full-time equivalents, while the planned recruitments in 2015 are estimated at 303 full-time equivalents, representing a replacement rate of 35.2%. The evolution of staff for the coming years will be determined as part of the preparation of the 2015-2019 financial plan. This is an exercise that will begin shortly, following the efficiency plan. It is obvious, as has already been explained on several occasions, that the cuts in funding must be an opportunity for public undertakings to modernise rather than to reduce the necessary investments on rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u33	Madam Minister, you wanted to give back their pride to the railwaymen. You looked them right in the eye and told them that there would be no job losses, that the savings would not be about the staff. You lied to them! You lied to the users! A few weeks ago, you said nothing would be done against the staff. Today, you say that the measure is exceptional. Tomorrow, what will be the next step? The abolition of the Health Care Fund of the SNCB, the Social Solidarity Fund, which are financed by the railway companies themselves and which make it possible to better reimburse medicines, but also to organize holiday camps for children? Minister, your political responsibility is here. Whatever he says, this government is carrying out a real frontal attack on the status of the railwayman, which is an untenable privilege in your eyes. Minister, I ask you to take your positions. It's about the minimum respect you owe to railwaymen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u34	Yesterday, Minister, you had discussions with the civil servants' associations on the issue of civil servants' pensions in general and on diploma certificates in particular. Diploma bonus means that officials may add their years of study to their working years so that they can de facto stop working earlier than an employee or self-employed person who has actually worked for the same number of years. It is precisely this inequality that the government wants to eliminate, it is a very clear inequality that the government wants to eliminate, through the gradual abolition of diploma-bonification. The intention was to introduce this measure this year. The measure has been postponed until next year, which gives you time to engage in social dialogue. Social dialogue is necessary and important as long as it is constructive and the child is not thrown away with the bath water. Why am I talking about the child and the bathwater? The Open Vld Group is a little concerned about what was to be read in the press, namely that the pace of abolition would be delayed and that 55-year-olds should retain the bonification. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to deal with our concerns. I have two questions for you. Firstly, what are the next steps in the consultation after the meeting with the unions yesterday? When do you plan to land? Secondly, is what the newspaper says about slowing down the pace of abolition and maintaining the bonification for 55-year-olds and 55-plussers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your question, which once again gives me the opportunity to emphasise the importance I attach to the social dialogue with which the reforms that this government has decided must go hand in hand. For example, yesterday I received a delegation from the trade union representatives of the public sector who explained to me their concerns about the planned public service reforms. As far as pensions are concerned, I have assured them that it is my firm will to continue negotiations with the A Committee. These are negotiations on the first reforms they are the subject of. In this context, I have informed them that I have received the various comments made to me at the beginning of January 2015 and that I will examine with my fellow minister in the government to what extent we can give a favourable response to their comments. I asked the nuclear cabinet to assess the transitional measures proposed, on the understanding that the objectives set out in the coalition agreement remain unchanged. It is in this way that the time-bonification due to diploma, which is charged for determining the date on which a person may retire, will be completely abolished. However, the phasing-in with which that abolition will take place can be planned in such a way that the implementation of the measure takes place in a more uniform manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u36	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I fully agree that transitional measures are necessary and necessary for people close to retirement. We have every confidence in the way in which you will continue to negotiate and work out the dossier within the government and within the nuclear cabinet. We would like to give you a suggestion on the transitional measures. You may also be able to use the guidance given for the transitional measures on early retirement. In the area of early retirement, a person who at the time of the new rule was only one or two years away from retirement age must work in that system for one or two years longer. Perhaps that can also be an inspiration in the negotiations that you will continue to conduct. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u37	There are now two questions for the Foreign Minister to which the answer will be given by Minister Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u38	Mr President, Minister, we knew that Mr Reynders was on the move, but the issue seemed to us to be important enough for us to put it today. We had no doubt that an excellent colleague would be able to answer that question. On 17 January, the National Assembly of the Democratic Republic of the Congo adopted a bill that allows for a postponement of the presidential election scheduled for 2016 and thus allows President Kabila to remain in power longer, with the Constitution prohibiting him from running for a third term. This law was passed in the absence of the opposition deputies, who boycotted the session. It is planned to organize a census before the election, but according to experts, the census should take a long time in view of the size of the country, the state of its infrastructure and the conflict situation in the eastern Congo. As a result, the opposition on the street and, since the beginning of the week, violent clashes have, according to some sources, caused several deaths. We're talking about 12 to 50 dead. It is difficult to obtain information since social networks and radios have been blocked. It is therefore impossible for the opposition to organize itself or simply to communicate. Even if it is worrying, it seems that the situation has been calmer since this morning. Mr Minister, in view of the chaos there, I would like to know whether you have any information on the current situation. Can you make a precise and objective assessment of the situation? What is the human impact of violent clashes? Do you condemn this violence, especially live shooting at demonstrators? Is it true that the calm is gradually returning? What about the safety of our nationals on the spot? What is Belgium doing, which has a particular role to play in the Congo? Does it contribute to a negotiated political solution allowing a return to definitive calm? I fear that the Congolese opposition will continue to protest until we act, in one way or another, so that calm can return.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u39	Minister, Kinshasa is on fire, Kinshasa is on fire. Kabila's supporters and opponents are now fighting it out in the streets. Shots fired sharp and 42 people have already died. The Catholic world there calls for reconciliation and condemns what is planned today. I quote briefly the Archbishop of Kinshasa: "We reject any revision of the electoral law aimed at illegally postponing the date of the elections'. What exactly is the reason for all these riots? Well, people want to introduce a census to see if next year's elections could be good and correct. Colleagues, let's not call each other Lijzebet. In a country with 65 million Congoleses, the same size as Western Europe, on the eve of the elections, saying that people will see how many people are right is the same as saying that it may take a few more years. In any case, the question is whether one is able to carry out such a census. Colleagues, in 2011 I myself was an observer of the elections in Congo. Then the Congolese also stayed behind with a heavy hangover. The hopes expressed in the 2011 elections have turned out to be vain. Everything's gone down on a sisser. The Carter Foundation, Human Rights Watch, everyone said there was cheating in the game. As in the case of Congo's independence, the Congolese said: "Avant les élections égale après les élections" ("Avant les élections"). Nothing's changed. I call on the government to send out a clear signal today and to consider whether we want to continue funding these elections. Following Mr De Croo and Mr Reynders' visit, violence in the streets of Kinshasa must now be condemned very clearly and not in cautious terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I give you the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Didier Reynders. "The situation in Kinshasa is particularly worrying, worrying, and we are following it from time to time thanks to our embassy team. The embassy is in constant contact with the Belgians on the spot, notably via the SMS-MA distribution system, and our consulate in Lubumbashi is doing a similar job, even if the situation is calmer at the moment. Our threat assessment agency, OCAM, has reviewed the threat in the DRC on the rise, level 3. Based on all of this information, we changed our travel notice. The last update took place this morning. My services and all relevant FPS are in contact with our posts in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi to monitor the security situation. I expressed my concern about these events in my press release of 20 January, in which I recalled that Belgium was still conditional on its support for the elections, the publication of a clear and constitutionally consistent timetable and a coherent budget. I noted, therefore, that a shift in the electoral calendar due to the census imperative would be particularly undesirable. The group of special envoys for the Great Lakes is also expected to issue a communiqué soon. On the spot, our ambassador began, as early as last night, a series of démarches with Congolese parliamentarians to plead for a suspension of the examination of the electoral law and for the observance of a period of reflection, which should allow the resumption of political dialogue. He is supported in this by his American, French and British counterparts. The four ambassadors met last night with the Speaker of the Senate and were to be received this morning by the Speaker of the National Assembly, Aubin Minaku. Finally, I also hope to have the opportunity to raise the situation in the DRC during the general debate on Africa at the EU Council of Ministers on 9 February. If the situation continues to deteriorate, I do not exclude the possibility of taking other initiatives. In order to discuss new démarches, a meeting of the heads of EU diplomatic posts is taking place in Kinshasa today."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u41	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am glad to hear that if there is no solution at the first conciliation with the ambassadors, we will move on to a later stage. Given the importance of our political, historical and economic relations with the Congo, it seems to me unquestionable that Belgium must play a proactive role in the search for a negotiated political solution. In this region, our country clearly has the capacity to move things through contacts with leaders, diplomatic pressure, sanctions, conditional aid, etc. Belgium has a whole range of means which I hope can be activated if this is to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that Belgium plays as much as possible the role it can still play in the debate on Congo. Let us be clear, there is clearly no calendar for the next round of elections in 2016. The count has undermined that calendar. It seems obvious to me, therefore, that if there are no corrections from Kinshasa, the funding of the elections must be stopped. Let us not strike the same stone twice, but call in the conflict for more security for the Congolese and for our countrymen in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, various press reports have suggested that the federal government will use the so-called "positive ratchet system" procedure, as provided for in the Program Act of 5 August 2003. A brief reminder: in the event of a significant reduction in oil prices, part of this decrease is converted into an increase in excise duties and special excise duty on fuels. It was my understanding that this measure was under consideration, but that its entry into force was not yet determined. First, do you confirm that the government is considering implementing this provision of the 2003 Program Act? If so, from what date, within what time frame or from what reduction in oil tariffs does it envisage? Secondly, when it comes logically to an increase in taxation on the purchasing power of citizens, bringing us closer to the "taxation rate" denounced by some in its time, in the event of the activation of this cliquet effect, would you agree to transform the counterpart into a reduction in taxation on labour income? This could be a first gesture of a government's ability to finally move forward on this famous tax shift. These are my questions about the state of the government's debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u44	Mr President, Minister, in an excellent interview you gave to the newspaper Le Soir and published this morning, you rightly state that "the great challenge for governments is to reduce uncertainty and restore confidence". Let me tell you, minister, that saying it is good, but doing it is even better. However, in this area of the reverse cliquet, it must be noted that the statement you issued on the position that the government seems to adopt is not such as to remove the uncertainties or restore confidence. On the one hand, you state that "the reversible ratchet has not been the subject of any government decision", which creates an element of uncertainty. However, in the government statement, you stress how the uncertainty factor in the economic and fiscal environment is a bad signal and that it must be removed; this is one of the causes of the weakness of the Belgian economy. On the other hand, you add in this press release that "the system will apply to both diesel and gasoline". However, the government declaration still provides for the application of the cliquet system in respect of excise duty on diesel fuel. Minister, I have three questions. First, when can we expect a government decision on this, which is part of the government agreement? Secondly, do you confirm that petrol will also be involved? Thirdly, how do you intend to avoid the negative effects on the competitiveness of businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u45	Mr President, Mr Dispa, Mr Maingain, at my request, the Kern mentioned for the first time the possibility of introducing a reversible ratchet in 2015. In this case, no decision has yet been taken by the Kern or the government. Discussions are still under way. The same applies to the preparation of more technical proposals. Let me, however, describe a little of the context that leads us to take such a step. The drastic fall in oil prices leads to a very significant fall in fuel prices. So far, this drop in pump prices seems to have had a positive effect on the consumer and on economic growth. Two negative effects, however, threaten both in the short term and certainly in the longer term if oil prices continue to fall. Firstly, growth in consumption would have negative consequences in terms of mobility and certainly also for the environment. Secondly, a significant reduction in VAT revenues can lead to a budgetary slippage. That's why I proposed introducing a reversible ratchet. It works both ways. When fuel prices continue to fall, part of the fall is absorbed by excise duties. But this system also works in the opposite direction. When prices go up, excise duties can be reduced from a reference price to be determined, allowing this system to be tax neutral in the long term. Let me also stress that this measure does not in any way hinder competitiveness, because the significant fall in prices that we have already seen is a fact for citizens and businesses. In conclusion, I would remind you that this proposal is currently under discussion in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u46	Mr President, Minister, for someone who is a strong advocate of the principle of business competitiveness, I am a little surprised at your answer! It is well known that in the United States, for example, the significant reduction in the cost of energy has supported the revival of economic growth. It happens that, for reasons independent of your government's establishment, the prices of petroleum products are experiencing a significant drop that can benefit Europe and the euro area in particular, which is in great need of it for the revival of its economy! You propose to capture part of this advantage for competitiveness, in new taxation. I could still understand that if you had the audacity to use this very favourable circumstance to propose a tax reform which would, in fact, reduce taxes on income from work, even if to compensate for part of the tax on petroleum products. It would then be a clear signal. Here, in short, you tell us that you simply want tax revenues in addition! So it is a countercyclical choice that you are making!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u47	Minister, I have two points of disagreement with your response. First, you refer to the negative effects in terms of mobility and environment. One might be pleased that the government is concerned about mobility and the environment, that would be good news, but it must be noted that you have a very punitive view of ecology since the measures you are proposing to the government are aimed at hitting motorists, especially workers who have no choice but to use their vehicle, since the federal government's rail offer is obviously unsatisfactory. Secondly, the economic context is so bleak today that we could welcome the fall in oil prices and the fall in the euro against the dollar. There are two elements that would strengthen the competitiveness of firms. Rather than preserving these two positive elements, you choose, in whole or in part, to confiscate them to bail out the state's caisses! This is not a choice that favours the purchasing power of workers or the competitiveness of companies!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u48	Mr President, Minister, we have all seen on our iPhone that there has been an important press conference of the European Central Bank in which an operation of quantitative expansion has been announced for an amount of EUR 60 billion per month, until September 2016. A total of EUR 1 140 billion in government securities would be bought up. I read in the newspapers this morning the comments of many economists. You have once told me in a recent past: put two lawyers at one table and you have three opinions. I have to tell you: put two economists at a table and you have at least five opinions. However, I do not want to talk about this. I would like to talk about your interview in De Standaard in which you express your concern about an attack on savings. You also asked for respect for saving. This is, of course, a concern that my group shares. Interest rates are low. The Flemings are nasty savers. I'll come to my questions. What do you think are the expected effects? What will be the impact for the savers? How will you convey this legitimate concern to the ECB, given the principle of separation of central banking and politics? How do you feel about the statements made by your fellow Members? Your German colleague, Mr Schäuble, is particularly critical of the ECB, while your Italian colleague, Mr Padoan, is actually asking for unlimited printing of government paper. What do you think of that? Isn't this some kind of desperation act for the benefit of speculators and governments, but not of savers and entrepreneurs? I would like to know your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister, but I understand that he is looking for investment in Davos. I look forward to receiving the answers from the Minister of Finance. It is a bit the week of the budget and the figures. The week started with the 2014 result showing that the federal government's budget work has resulted in a larger deficit. The same applies at Flemish level. Mr Peeters is gone now, but the calculation of the past year is not correct. Yesterday, Mr Nollet asked a question in which he made it clear that a number of measures in the 2015 budget are being assessed differently, in line with the Court of Auditors' criticism of the budget. Today there is the debate on the ECB which is planning a measure to give oxygen to the European economy. Minister of Finance, I read a rather remarkable interview with you this morning in De Standaard. The title was scared for a moment: "Don't do anything" is always an option. However, very strange in the current economic context in which everyone is looking for measures to give oxygen. In that interview, you also criticize the planned actions of the European Central Bank, while the European Central Bank acts autonomously. I note, moreover, that I am not the only person in our hemisphere who is concerned about your determination in this matter. Mr Van Rompuy has already put a question to the Finance Committee this morning. The first part of my question is in fact perfectly in line with the question put by Mr Van Rompuy. Minister, are you not afraid that your statements will undermine the confidence of savers? You create an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty, while we just need security, clarity and stability. Mr Van Rompuy also wonders, as he wonders, whether your position is shared by the government. That part of my question is about the ECB and I think it is important that you clarify that. Secondly, with your statement that doing nothing is also an option, I absolutely disagree. You must also ask yourself what you, as Minister of Finance, can do here with the Belgian Government to give oxygen to our economy. Budgetary control is on the way, and in our opinion it must be an investment budget with a tax shift, to give oxygen here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a press conference has indeed just been held by the ECB. The ECB has just announced cash injections for around €60 billion per month until September 2016. The Belgian share as a whole amounts to 3.5 percent, which means an acquisition of approximately 39.9 billion euros via the National Bank of Belgium of government securities, which go to investors and large funds. EUR 39.9 billion is a very important cash injection for these entities. In a press statement on the impact of this measure, the Minister has already expressed concern and doubts about its impact on Belgian savings, among other things. Minister, it is clear that such an operation has advantages and disadvantages. Of the disadvantages, you have listed some of them in the newspaper. There are also advantages, because a cheaper euro, which will result in this, must support lending and our exports. If we look at the growth rates in Europe, it is clear that we need additional investment and additional growth. The Juncker plan that Europe is putting forward can help us to do this, and the QE operation announced today will also help us if the money flows smoothly into the real economy. That's where the calf is bound. We must also make public investment in growth sectors and crucial infrastructure possible in budgetary terms, for example by neutralising them in the budget. We certainly do not need uncertainty, fear and mistrust, Minister. Economic growth where job creation is central can only be in a spirit of fundamental trust and fair partnership. Any communication we do then can be considered. Over the last few days, we have already made a bad impression in Europe through the blackmailing and passing on the debt in the story of the budget deficit. Therefore, Minister, I wonder whether your statements, as expressed, among other things, by the Reuters press agency, Belgium's finance minister favors down ECB QE... will boost Europe's confidence in our country. Minister, I have a number of questions for you. Firstly, do you confirm that, through the National Bank of Belgium, the ECB will indeed make some EUR 39.9 billion available for the acquisition of Belgian public debt? Secondly, can you tell us how the EUR 39.9 billion of cash that will come from investors and banks will end up in the real economy and finance investment? Thirdly, was the opportunity examined to go directly to the real economy according to American example? A fourth small question, quid private shareholders at the National Bank of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u51	Mr President, Minister, today, in the newspaper Le Soir, you explain that doing nothing is also an alternative. If so, what are you doing, Minister of Finance? It's January 2015. Let me remind you that the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers took place on September 15, 2008. Since September 2008, the response of a number of governments in Europe has been to impose on states a tight fiscal straitjacket, an orthodoxy that has suffocated any possibility of recovery policy. This has been a lack of clear vision in terms of financing investment, particularly public investment, and a particularly strict monetary policy which, as can be seen today, has had no positive effect, but on the contrary! In other words, for more than seven years, the necessary policies at European Union level, relayed by a number of conservative chapels, have failed to produce any result. Today, what do we have? We have the beginning of a change that will certainly prove to be historic, since on the one hand we see the Juncker Plan, more than 300 billion in financing, progressive and essentially public investment and, on the other hand, this decision by the European Central Bank, which wants to reinject some liquidity through the redemption of state debts. It is therefore perhaps the beginning of a change of direction which Germany does not like, we understand, and which, obviously, you do not like either, Minister. Indeed, when you are asked if the solution is not to do anything, you answer that doing nothing is also an alternative. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know today what other solution, in addition to the fall in the price of oil you are holding on to, is for you the way out of the economic and social crisis in which we are?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u52	Minister, I was going to ask a question about the letter on the budget sent by the federal government to the European Commission. This morning, however, I read to my great dismay: Minister Van Overtveldt fears an attack on savings. We are both economists, and we may differ, but you are now Minister of Finance. I therefore find it strange that you, as Belgian Finance Minister, criticise the European Central Bank, which, after months of discussion, decided that a policy of buying-in government bonds should be pursued to stimulate the economy, to reduce deflation, to lower interest rates and to encourage lending to the economy. We can differ as economists. You used to be a journalist, but now you're Minister of Finance. A finance minister has no right to say that the European Central Bank, which is wanted by the institutions and which is independent, is pursuing a policy that would be an attack on savings. I find that unacceptable! That is why I tabled a question this morning, as chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget, because I know that we can have an intellectual debate on this. However, you do not have the political right, as a representative of the majority in this House, as a representative of Belgium in the European Councils, to criticise the European Central Bank, which has been prepared for months. I have also heard that the governor of the National Bank of Belgium, Mr Coene, fully supports that policy of the European Central Bank. This must be indicted in Parliament. Your statement that the policy is actually an attack on savings is not acceptable. I would therefore ask you, in your reply, to clearly distance yourself from the statement you have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u53	Mr President, I think there are some misunderstandings about what I have said. I'd like to advise anyone who's referred to those interviews to read them exhaustively. I said very clearly in both interviews that I respect strictly the separation between political decision-making and the decision-making of central banks. However, as central banks often comment on what belongs in the political decision-making process, I refer to the many statements made at various levels within the structure of the European Central Bank on what should happen, for example, in the budgetary field. I think that a politically responsible person should also think about the possible consequences of certain monetary decisions. That has no repercussion or implication for non-respect of decisions taken in this case by the European Central Bank, or by central banks in general. I would like to strongly contradict the fact that I oppose or strongly criticise certain decisions which seem to have been taken in the meantime. I just wanted to call on you to think carefully and consider the consequences of a particular policy. What led me to that? I think we all have an analysis of what is going on today. At least I have it for myself. Ultimately, when we look at the difference between what is happening today in the European and American economies, for example, we see a clear difference in confidence from consumers, producers and investors. Reference has been made to the creation and supply of credit, but there must also be demand for credit. One can take the horse to the water, but the horse must want to drink. There is no central bank that can in any way require a system to effectively absorb the credit volumes made available and, preferably, for the productive investments we would all like to see. I made the reference to savings because any intervention by a central bank, and we all know that, affects both the price level and the level of interest rates. The level of interest rates, more specifically in the context of the operations envisaged, I refer to the examples of the United States, Japan and the United Kingdom, on which we are about to learn that long-term interest rates will be further reduced as a result of such operations and will therefore have an impact on savings. As you all know, there is a lot of savings in Belgium. My only intention with the statement this morning was to point out that I am not responsible for titles placed above articles in the newspapers if the European Central Bank pursues a policy of what is called quantitative easing, this has repercussions on savings, which, as you all know, is abundant in Belgium. The quantitative easing is often referred to the examples of Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom. However, there is a fundamental institutional difference: each of these countries has one central bank, one government and one treasury. The euro area has one European Central Bank, 19 governments, since 1 January, and 19 treasuries. The environment of such a policy is therefore different from that of the countries quoted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in the meantime, in the United States in particular, there is a great deal of study material, including from the Federal Reserve itself, in which the impact of quantitative easing measures on economic growth and inflation is seriously questioned. So I would like to emphasise once again clearly that with my statements this morning, I did not wish to question or in any way undermine the autonomy or decisions of the European Central Bank. Apparently, even the words "gunned down" were used by Reuters. No, I only wished to express my reservations about the possible consequences of the European Central Bank moving to the actions now planned, in proportion to the amounts mentioned by Mr Van Biesen. As far as I can estimate it at the moment, I would first like to take a closer look at the details of what the ECB has decided on a concrete basis: 1 100 billion, of which about 20% would be done by the ECB itself and 80% by the national central banks. It is not clear to me at the moment, and on the basis of the very brief data, what is the situation in terms of potential risk derivatives arising from the measure and the risk distribution used in it. I will be happy to return to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u54	Minister, I hear some fellow Members saying that you are now Minister of Finance. I won't tell you that; I suppose you know that. As Minister of Finance, you are clearly entitled to an opinion. As Minister of Finance, you can obviously also make analyses. And obviously freedom of expression also applies to you, and you may do the same as your colleagues abroad, who also carry out such analyses. Mr Minister, it is important that this is at the heart of the matter, and that you have confidence with the consumer, with the investors, with the savers, with the companies, and you have to do so through structural measures. I and my group are confident that you will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u55	Mr Van Rompuy, you have seen with me that the Minister does not in any way renounce his statements in the newspaper today. I am really looking forward to your reply and I hope that you will not express a personal opinion, but the opinion of your group as a whole. With CD&V they send Van Rompuy on the road nowadays, he must be angry and then shut up CD&V. Will that be the case again today? Minister, you are no longer editor-in-chief, you are Minister of Finance today. A measure may have advantages and disadvantages, but that measure calls it an attack on savings, upsetting the whole country and creating an atmosphere of fear, is just creating mistrust, while you yourself say that we need confidence at the moment. You, as Minister of Finance, clearly do not contribute to this. A statement that I find even more problematic, if possible, can be found in the title of the article: "Doing nothing is always an option." You cannot blame the journalists who chose the title, because you say it in the article itself: "Doing nothing is always an option." In the current economic context, doing nothing is not an option. As Belgian Finance Minister, you must assume your responsibility and, for example, ensure that oxygen is taxed, with lower labour costs and a shift towards the greatest capabilities. You must do something, you are no longer the editor-in-chief, you are Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u56	Minister, you are one of the ministers best placed in the government; indeed you have already been able to put a clear stamp on the government. In my view, you have just struck the culpa for breaking the line between politician and finance minister on the one hand and editor-in-chief and specialist in macro-economics on the other. A line that one does not see soon, you have unfortunately crossed. Please, let us leave that point out. Most importantly, EUR 39.9 billion will be invested, cash will be made available to investors and pension funds to invest in our real economy. Let us now put all our hands on deck to work on that. The stock exchanges today, we show tomorrow and the day after tomorrow that the concrete mills are turning again in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Raymond Devos could have said, "Nothing is already something!" I will not say that we have made much progress in listening to you, but let us go to the essentials! Let us be constructive! What we expect of you, Mr Finance Minister, is to explain to the European Commission that the investments to be financed by the Juncker Plan will not have to be accounted for in their entirety in the same fiscal year as regards the government's debt measure. It's fundamental! You are a member of the Eurogroup and the ECOFIN Council, and that is where it must be said! As far as the ECB is concerned, I do not understand your argument on savings. If the rates proposed to savers were record rates, I could understand your concern about the negative effect of the European Central Bank's policy on interest rates, but in this case, unfortunately, they have reached floor levels. So your argument doesn't hold! Finally, budgetary easing is a necessity; it is also important to say so to the European Commission. Of course, you are not in a position of strength! We told you from the top of this rostrum: for at least half a billion euros, your tax revenue in your budget is bogus. Today, it is the European Commission that tells you that it is not structural efforts! Savings-pension, liquidation reserve, secret commissions, stop with these budget gadgets! Finally, take real measures, such as fairer taxation on capital! Go to the Commission! Tell him you're a good student and ask him for a fiscal relaxation to finally revive the economy!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u58	When we heard Mr Obama's speech a few days ago, he said that trust is essential. In America, confidence has been regained by the Federal Reserve Bank's policy. I have no predilection to know better than our European Central Bank, which is made up of the finest heads responsible for monetary policy and who believes that that political confidence will be possible. We have zero economic growth, in America that is 5%. We have zero inflation, the danger of deflation is imminent. The bank has made an analysis; let us support her politically, let us give that confidence. I am convinced that the economy can only revive if there is an atmosphere in which the national Member States also react in a similar way to the European authorities. I stand by, Minister, you are not speaking here as an economist, we are not bringing in free stands. We are not making any political considerations here, Mr Vuye. There's a big difference between being a minister of finance. The Minister of Finance has his opinion, like everyone else, but he is responsible for the policy supported by a majority in Parliament. That is important and I hope that it will be a lesson, Minister, that such statements will no longer be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u59	Mr President, thank you for your intervention so that we can also be heard. Minister, I have had a fairly long career in politics and have been active at various levels. To the question of which legislation I believe is the most beautiful, the most efficient and the most clear, I answer the federal legislation on OCMWs. This legislation instructs local government to ensure that everyone can live a decent life, whether one is poor, old, sick or a combination of these different elements. In the 1970s, a bipolar structure was created at local level. This had a very clear intention, in particular that OCMWFs, independently of classical party politics, could take a number of social decisions and set up a social policy in the interests of the people. Now the OCMW has its own perspective. It works much more professionally and often much more efficiently than the city or city administration and it does not function as a classic administration. I'll ask my question. This week it has become known that the Flemish government apparently decided last Friday that the OCMWFs will be abolished in 2018. This means that federal legislation must also be amended. Has the federal government reached agreement on the changes? By when does the government intend to take a decision, because there must also be a period for implementation? Has there been any consultation between the Flemish Government and the federal legislator on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u60	Mr Minister, we read on Monday in De Standaard, an important Dutch-language newspaper, that the OCMWFs will permanently integrate into the municipality or city, at least in Flanders. We know that this is in the Flemish coalition agreement. There is a passage in the federal government agreement that states that we will remove the barriers in order to make that possible. In French-speaking Belgium, too, this integration is envisaged, albeit at a much calmer pace and voluntarily. Mrs De Coninck just referred to Article 1 of the OCMW Act. I do not think it is in question that a local entity should remain responsible for the well-being of all. However, it is mainly about Article 2 of the OCMW Act, which actually stipulates that there is a separate organisation in each municipality of our country such as the OCMW. Actually, it's a little more complex. The whole area of competence is laid down in a special law of 1980 which lays down what the Communities can do and what the federal government can do. I am also the chairman of the OCMW and in fact I have been somewhat disturbed by Monday's coverage, as if everything is already so affirmative. After all, the OCMW Act must first be amended at federal level. In addition, there is a discussion on whether the special 1980 law should also be amended. This requires a special majority. That's not so obvious. My question, Minister, is twofold. Do you recognize this problem? Is it enough to amend the OCMW law to do what the Flemish government wants? Do you think that the special law of 1980 should also be amended, by a special majority? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u61	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, Mr Lachaert, there are two aspects to this. Firstly, the federal government agreement provides that the federal government will adapt the legal framework to allow for the organic integration of the municipal authorities and the OCMW. In doing so, it is ensured that the current tasks of the OMCW in relation to social services respectful of the privacy of the data subjects and the necessary guarantees regarding the professionalism of the service remain ensured. I have recalled this action in my policy paper and policy statement. In order to adapt the legislation, it is necessary to carry out a thorough legal review of the necessary changes and their consequences. I expect first legal advice from my administration by the end of the month. You understand that I cannot give the right timing until I know what steps need to be taken. In addition, the intentions and plans for the integration of the OMCWs differ from Region to Region. It is therefore my intention to consult with the Regions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u62	Minister, I can't get rid of the impression that it's going to change in time. In practice, the OCMWFs often work together with other authorities, so also with the municipal authorities. They are looking for ways to work more efficiently and therefore cost-effectively. For the record, we are not against that. But if the only argument is that cooperation is more effective and cost-effective, then I wonder why state reform is needed in Belgium. That also has a certain reason, to be sure of a number of things. Well, one can maintain the same reasoning for the OCMWFs. I am afraid that the main aim is to encourage privatisation and commercialisation. However, I am breaking a lance for the OCMWFs. They are also actors in the field and guarantee quality for a piece. If a decision is not taken quickly, the real effect is that the OMCs will not be able to do anything in the years to come and will not be able to invest. That will be at the disadvantage of all people who are old, poor or sick. Don't forget, the ageing of the population is on the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u63	Mr President, you will not be surprised that I am a little less negative than Mrs De Coninck. In itself, I do see an added value. Integration of the OCMWFs into the municipalities can lead to effective improvements. However, I do have some difficulties with the communication process that is starting today. I note that the Minister says that there is a political will to amend the federal law so that the Regions can do what they want to do. However, the Minister also acknowledges that there is a legal difficulty which needs to be examined. As long as that is not cleared up, it is very dangerous to send signals to the field, from any level of policy, as if it is already certain that the OMCW will integrate into the municipalities. That brings with it a lot of uncertainty on the workplace, for the thousands of people who work in all those OCMWs. I therefore hope, Minister, that you will be able to consult quickly with the various relevant ministers and that it will be clear soon. The concern is justified and the OCMWFs would like clarity. It'll be soon 2019. The OMCWs can take it positively, but they should have time to prepare in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I know that the question was already put in committee on 7 January, if I remember correctly. Since then, new figures have been released. They're alarming. Indeed, 10 suicides were recorded in the army in 2013 and 16 in 2014. This represents an increase of 60 per cent. It should also be noted that, over six years, 87 suicides have been recorded. There is therefore a need to give serious thought to the situation, especially in the light of the fact that the rate of suicide is twice as high in the military as in the civilian population. Dr.Colonel Marc Lemmens was already making a first approach to this in 2011, pointing out that there was a real need to be careful. Recently, he spoke in the press about the issue. According to him, there may be a lack of psychosocial follow-up for members returning from missions abroad. At the same time, a number of initiatives have been taken. Minister, I know very well that you took up your duties only three months ago. But the initiatives taken are not sufficient. Today, we are talking about the merger of parastatal organizations, or even a complete reorganization of the defence social services. Minister, do you confirm the figures I have put forward? What's your analysis? What are the new initiatives you plan to take? The government agreement provides for a merger or reorganization of the military's social services. Can you give me further information on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u65	Mr Thiéry, thank you for your question. As you know, I care about the well-being of our people. At the committee on 7 January, I indicated the following figures: 16 suicides in 2009, 18 in 2010, 14 in 2011, 13 in 2012 and 10 in 2013. It is important to note that these figures relate to serving members, voluntarily suspended members of the military and civilians working in defence, a total of 32,000. For 2014, I would like to tell you that contrary to what has been written in the press, according to the figures of the staff, we deplore 13 suicides and not 16. This is still a relative increase over the previous year. But we find ourselves in the law of small numbers. In fact, out of 32,000, it is difficult to draw percentage conclusions for an increase of 10 to 13 suicides. I have already said it, but I will repeat it again: the Defence has undertaken many actions in this area in recent years. Before any operation, members receive specific training to learn how to manage the psychological and social challenges associated with their future mission. During the operation, Defence has a team of Mental Operational Advisors, Moral Advisors and Chaplains. For military families, Defence organizes family days and provides social workers and a dedicated telephone number. Staff members with mental disorders may be monitored by the mental health centre of the military hospital. The centre also provides a brochure for military personnel facing attempted suicide. As you can see, concrete measures exist in the field of prevention. Nevertheless, I asked the Defence Staff to present me with a study for a structural framework upon return from mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. Suicide is, in my opinion, above all a tragedy. It's a human drama, it's a social drama, it's a family drama. Ultimately, it is also a failure for everyone. I think a number of suicides are completely preventable. We must also give ourselves the time and the means to counter this scourge. I hear your initiatives well, they are commendable, but I wonder if they are sufficient. Much more thought is needed in order to counter this phenomenon. In this connection, I would like to say that Mr. Ducrame, Piedboeuf and I have tabled a bill to identify and deal with CF members and former CF members who are victims of post-traumatic stress. Probably it would be interesting to put it on the table for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u67	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week the nuclear cabinet resumed the social dialogue with the Group of Ten. That is a positive thing. However, social dialogue is not just for the private sector: equal consultation is needed for the public sector. The savings for our government apparatus are no less. I refer to the policy and budget statements: more than a quarter less resources in five years, which is a drastic saving. You understand that the officials are worried. The demand for social dialogue, as in the private sector, is a sound demand. The savings will be clearly tangible for the public staff. As has already been said, pension reforms, redundancies, but also day-to-day operation and investment are under threat. It is therefore difficult to further maintain the quality of service. Moreover, there is growing uncertainty among civil servants. As an example, there is the publication of the figures of the Flemish teachers, who record more TBS than before. In addition, in March the additional budgetary control will once again threaten the public administration. You will probably no longer be able to count on the interdepartmental commission, which has probably been spent three times already. Minister, your party itself stated in an answer that the margin for saving on public administration is very small. They said we're already on the bone. Social dialogue is essential at all times, but certainly in this context. I refer very briefly to the letter from the social security directors a month ago. I give two quotes: "It is clear that the proposed savings will cripple some services completely."Supports and servicesThe proposed savings will have a tangible effect on the institutions of social security and jeopardise the functioning of a number of services. Mr President, can you give me the state of play regarding the consultation on pensions and the selective replacement of staff? What is the state of play regarding savings and their impact on the quality of service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u68	You have exceeded your time, Mr Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u69	Mr President, let me ask you this question. Can you confirm that there is indeed no more room for savings in public administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u70	Mr President, Mr Top, when I took office as a minister, I had contact for the first time with all the representatives of the government trade unions. I also explained to them how we would work. My cabinet has had informal contact with them several times since. A number of important decisions, which we took last year, were communicated in advance to them. I think the line this government is following is pretty clear. A number of very important challenges and objectives have been identified in the coalition agreement. I believe that it is up to politics to develop a vision of this, to prepare decisions and to take them. It seems clear to me that my cabinet today is working hard to transpose some of the provisions of the coalition agreement into concrete decisions. It seems obvious to me that we will contact all stakeholders when we are ready to make the final decisions. Those stakeholders are our customers or the users as you prefer to describe them. We will contact the customers, the citizens, the businesses, but certainly also the representatives of the civil servants, in particular the trade unions. As far as your specific question on budgetary control is concerned, I would ask you not to take the lead in the whole story. Today, the services themselves are working on completing the savings imposed on them. We will discuss this with them shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u71	Minister, I am somewhat surprised at your answer. There was also the answer from the Minister for Pensions, who clearly indicated that he wanted to give room for discussion on the measures relating to pensions within the framework of the savings imposed. However, you do not answer my questions. I referred to the fact that there is a great deal of concern among staff about savings and how they will be introduced, but much more about whether the savings will stop and whether the bottomline has been achieved. You can continue to save blindly, but you still need a minimum of staff to provide the quality of service. In addition, if you do not provide the officials with certainty, you undermine the motivation of the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u72	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u73	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Deseyn, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (678/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (678/3) The draft law has 38 articles. The bill has 38 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u76	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nahima Lanjri, Veerle Heeren, Franky Demon, Sarah Smeyers, Denis Ducarme, Katja Gabriels
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first read out the report on this proposal. Then I will intervene to give the position of my group, the PS group, on this project. Ms Nahima Lanjri, the main proposer of the bill, explains that unaccompanied underage foreigners are young people who come to our country without parents or guardians. Those minors are vulnerable and need protection. Ms Lanjri, the main author of the bill, begins by retracing the history of the MENA problem in our country. In recent years, their number has dropped from 2,000 minors to 1,400 young people per year. This is a relatively small group which, however, needs special protection. The bill under consideration intends to take a new step in the protection of MENA. Today, an adult refugee candidate can introduce several procedures simultaneously, unlike the MENA, which must choose between an asylum application and an application for subsidiary protection. So far, the MENA cannot combine the two procedures. This prohibition carries the risk that the MENA, which sees its asylum application file refused after long processing, will often arrive too late to still seek protection. By combining the two procedures, however, this protection will be guaranteed at all times. The proposed regulations do not mean that each MENA will obtain a right of residence. The purpose of the bill is not to grant them a right of residence, but to provide them with optimal protection. Ms Lanjri stressed that UNHCR also explicitly advocated the extension of protection. In addition to the legislative amendment, it is important to ensure the smooth running of the procedure. With respect to the proposed concurrent submission of applications, it is also necessary to check whether one application could not be worked on. The Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) and the Office of Foreigners could then jointly process the application and, for example, organize the interview together, with CGRA taking special responsibility for the asylum component and the Office of Foreigners in the protection component. For adults, it is still the CGRA that deals with the processing of the file, both for asylum applications and for subsidiary protection. In the context of lifting the ban on cumulation for MENA, it would therefore be logical to move towards a single procedure. This would benefit both minors and the services concerned. In a number of cases, reunification with parents in the countries of origin is the preferred solution. In such cases, more emphasis will need to be placed in future on accompanying parents and the family. One can only speak of a sustainable return when both the young person and his or her family benefit from such accompaniment. During the general discussion in committee, our colleague Mrs Monica De Coninck spoke. She indicated that she was the lead author of the proposed law amending the 1980 Act to better protect unaccompanied foreign minors, which was originally attached to the proposed law under consideration. The proposal for a law introduced by the intervener aims to give the young person the freedom to introduce a procedure while automatically guaranteeing him the benefit of the protected status until he reaches the majority. It thus allows for the faster and more efficient processing of files relating to the target group that most needs to be fixed on its fate by a quick and clear decision. The two bills mentioned above have the same purpose, but the bill introduced by Mrs De Coninck is the one that offers the simplest solution to this problem. It therefore deserves at least a debate. I come now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the PS Group on the text. The PS will support the text. MENA are a particularly fragile group and it is necessary to support any proposal that improves their protection. For my part, I shall abstain, in line with the line I have defended in committee. Indeed, I believe, like Mrs De Coninck, the main author of the proposal, of which I am a co-signatory and which we have separated from the text voted on today, that this text could have gone further by automatically guaranteeing the protection status of these unaccompanied minors. That is what our bill provided for. And if I abstain today, it is also to express our regret that, in our view, the conditions for a calm debate on the two joint texts with a view to deepening the proposed measures were not met at the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u79	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Lanjri, the principal proposer of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Kir has just said, unaccompanied minors are a particularly vulnerable group. Every year, so many young people come to our country. Last year it is estimated that around 1 500 unaccompanied minors were found in our country. The latest full figures on unaccompanied minors date from one year earlier, from 2013. In that year we saw a drop in the number of unaccompanied minors and that number has actually been falling sharply for a few years. In 2011 there were 3 848 unaccompanied minors, in 2012 there were 3 355 and in 2013 there were 2 150. In 2014, that number fell even further. In a first phase, unaccompanied minors are taken into custody in a federal observation and orientation centre. They are assigned a guardian to deal with the procedures and the well-being of these young people. The guardian will also take the necessary steps to ensure that the younger person is in good administrative order and can apply for the necessary statutes or, where appropriate, a residence permit. They may include a protection status, an asylum procedure or subsidiary protection when the person comes from a conflict area. If the young person is given the special status for protection, we have that possibility in the previous legislature, then the best solution will also be sought for that minor in the best interests of the child. A sustainable solution is therefore being sought which can take different forms, such as family reunification with parents or families, return to the country or region of origin, or possibly decide to grant the child a residence permit in Belgium if that is in the best interests of that child. In 2013, the Foreign Affairs Office made 499 decisions regarding the special protection of unaccompanied minors. In 89 cases a sustainable solution proved to be family reunification in the country of origin, in 258 cases the search for the best solution was continued and ultimately 152 young people were found to be the sustainable solution as a residence permit in our country. When an unaccompanied minor lodges an asylum procedure, it is usually no longer eligible for that special protection, on the one hand, because there is no combination of the two procedures at the same time, of that protection and another procedure, and on the other hand because the time is too short to qualify for a protection status when the asylum procedure is over. That is how it happens, and this has been the case with Navid Sharifi, for example, that young people who have lived in our country for a long time and who are well established are still expelled after their 18th birthday, because they are no longer eligible for that protection. In 2013, 468 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in our country. You know that part of them had to go back to their country of origin because they had been deported. They could no longer rely on that protection status because it was too late for them to be eligible. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is now this legislative proposal which is widely supported within the majority, which we have tabled together and which has also received the support of the opposition in committee. I would like to thank everyone for making this possible. We can give these young people better protection and a better future. Finally, we have now taken an important new step towards improving the protection of unaccompanied minors, but I would also ask the government to address at the same time a number of issues that should not be regulated by law but should be regulated in practice. In this way, I would like to ask that the procedure be improved. If we go to a single system of protection and asylum, then I think it is logical that the procedure of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless should be carried out at the same time as that of the Office for Foreign Affairs, so that one can decide in one interview what is in the interests of the young person. In a number of cases young people will have to return to their country of origin and it is also in the best interests of the child to be reunited with his family. It is therefore important not only to work with the younger self, but also to work with the environment to which the child is returned. After all, this is not happening today and it is difficult for a lot of young people sent back there to be accepted. They are sometimes evicted, with all possible problems. So I want the government of these two things, the procedure and better guidance of the return, to do some work. For the rest, I would like to thank everyone for their good cooperation, of course the fellow Members who supported the legislative proposal, as well as the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u81	The term unaccompanied minor stranger is so extensive that we sometimes forget who we are actually talking about. Unaccompanied minors are and continue to be foreigners who, for various reasons, have fled their country and have ended up without parents or guardians in a foreign country. They are children who are vulnerable and need help and protection. At the moment, the law ensures that unaccompanied minors can only run one residence procedure at a time, unlike adults, who can start different residence procedures at the same time. Therefore, if they wish to benefit from the protected status, they must not have any other procedure for protection or admission to stay or establishment in our country. In practice, therefore, they must choose between either the asylum procedure or a protected status. We can't go through both procedures in parallel. First of all, one procedure and then another, too often it is not an option for minors, purely for lack of time to go through the two procedures one after the other before one is 18 years old. Such choices are not evident to a minor and certainly not always lead to the best possible protection we can offer them. The present bill strengthens the protection of the unaccompanied minor stranger. The proposal will now allow them to combine procedures in such a way that they are protected and can be helped in a faster and more efficient way. However, this does not mean that every minor foreigner will automatically be granted a right of residence, but that they will be protected in the best possible way, while investigating possible solutions. In particular, sustainable solutions should be sought, with the best interests of the child at all times. Any permission to stay is one of them. On the other hand, efforts must continue to be made to reunite the minor with his family in the country of origin. The right guidance is important here. Colleagues, this bill is in line with the government agreement and the policy paper of Secretary of State Theo Francken and results in a faster and more efficient investigation into a good solution and better protection of unaccompanied minors. So it is a very good initiative. I would like to draw the government's attention to two more points. It should be stressed that the legislative proposal increases the role of the guardian. The importance of good training for guardians is thus also increasing. In addition, good cooperation between the guardians and the various authorities involved is important, such as the Voogdij Service, which belongs to the Minister of Justice, Fedasil and the DVZ. This cooperation will need to be strengthened. Great is also the importance of good contacts in the country of origin in order to facilitate the search for any family in the country of origin. All of this can contribute to the development of the European Union. This is an ever-recurring formulation of a sustainable solution for unaccompanied minors. Allow me to raise a threat and also to formulate counter-arguments. I hear from the left and right that there is a risk that the application for a residence scheme, together with an asylum application, will cause problems in contacting the authorities in the country of origin in order to receive the appropriate identity documents, whereas that contact in the context of the asylum procedure can be regarded as an indication that the alleged fear of persecution is unfounded. The DVD may have contact with the authorities of the country of origin or with the minor's family in the context of the examination of the residence permit, while the person concerned has invoked the fear of persecution, which may lead to conflicting risk assessments in the proceedings. But I don't want to knock those risks up and at least nuance them. First of all, in the legal field, the new rules allow the minor alien or his guardian to combine the two procedures. There is no obligation to do so. It remains therefore primarily the responsibility of the minor, his guardian or lawyer, to determine whether or not the two procedures will be combined and which elements or documents are used in the proceedings, hence the greater importance of the guardian.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u82	Mr Smeyers, there used to be a risk of finding parents for the safety of parents. That is why the choice was made not to combine the two procedures, but in the meantime the detection techniques have changed and it is possible to proceed with caution and thus combine the two procedures. That is also what the UNHCR has put forward. It is also the reason why the UNHCR itself has called for young people, like adults, to be given the opportunity to combine the two procedures. It used to be a risk, but with the new methods the combination must be possible without endangering the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u83	That is true and it is an additional reason why the risk of the asylum procedure being declared unfounded or compromised is avoided. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I can only conclude that it is a very good legislative proposal. It is completely in line with what has been agreed at the negotiating table and is included in the federal government agreement. We shall therefore vote unanimously in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our colleague, Mrs Lanjri, for setting out in a clear and detailed manner this bill, on the content of which I do not think I should have to go back in detail, as it is true that there is a broad consensus here, within the framework of the protection which we all wish to see improved in favour of minors staying in our territory. Currently, an unaccompanied foreign minor can only qualify for special protection status if he or she does not have any other procedure for his or her stay. In other words, there is a prohibition on cumulation of procedures. This proposal for a majority law aims to address this problem by providing for the application of the protection status to all unaccompanied minors, whether or not there is an ongoing procedure, i.e. also to the benefit of those who have already applied for asylum. This will effectively prevent the expulsion of young boys and girls who have already been well integrated and present in Belgium for several years. From now on, they will no longer have to make a choice between an asylum application and the specific protection granted to unaccompanied minors. Additional protection is granted. They're rights, they're security. Moreover, the possibility of combining the two procedures will allow the minor to apply for this status and then, if necessary, to start an asylum procedure after taking the time to put everything back into perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement had made the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors a priority, and the interests of the child must take precedence. A lasting solution must be found each time and this solution can be either to stay in Belgium or sometimes to return to the country of origin. Each case is unique and will therefore have to be examined individually. What is important is that, apart from the budgetary debates and the vote on the programme law a few weeks ago, this text is the first that we voted in the Committee on the Interior on asylum and immigration. It is a positive text, it is a human text that grants additional protection to the often very vulnerable public of foreign minors. In this respect, it fully reflects the philosophy of the government agreement on asylum and immigration, namely, on the one hand, that Belgium is a welcoming country that meets its international and moral obligations, but where abuses are not tolerated and, on the other hand, that Belgium develops a humane but firm migration policy with clear and rapid procedures. For all these reasons, the MR Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are very pleased that this legislative proposal will be adopted, albeit with a slight adjustment. We would have liked to go a little further in our legislative proposal, as Mr Kir explained earlier. We had already tabled the proposal during the previous legislature, but at that time there was no majority in favour. After all, it was fundamentally unfair for a majority of children to be able to rely on two procedures at the same time, while an unaccompanied minor or a minor tout court could not do so. As a result, even in the previous legislature, we have seen a number of very poignant cases of children and young people who were perfectly integrated into our society, but were ultimately obliged to leave the country. Although we wanted to go a little further, we are nevertheless pleased that legislation will be introduced so that we can also give perfectly integrated minors the opportunity to further develop their lives here. Just now, Mrs Smeyers pointed out that custody is becoming even more important. It was already important, but it's getting even more important now. I would therefore call on the government to take custody seriously. We know that there are still guardians today who have received almost no payments for two years. The delay in the relevant invoices, which are not met by the Justice Department, is considerable. We urgently need to tackle this problem. Minister, I am glad you are here. I repeat that Mrs Smeyers has just mentioned that custody by the legislation in question is now becoming even more important. It is therefore essential that, firstly, we extend custody further. After all, there are now guardians who have more than 30 children in their care, which, of course, will no longer be possible in the future. Secondly, however, we must, above all, ensure that the agreements made with the guardians are sometimes met only in a reasonable period of time. By this I mean within two or three months, but no longer within the year. I am counting on the current majority to do something about this. I therefore expect that in the budgetary negotiations that will follow in the course of budgetary control in March 2015, the issue will be an essential part of the budget vacuum of the Justice Department and that the budget will respond to this greed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is it about? It's about unaccompanied underage aliens. In ordinary human language, illegals under 18 years old. This assembly has seen a lot of legislative proposals passed in the past. The group concerned had no special protection in the past. Why would it be? At the time, the policy wanted the future of illegal minors to take place in the country of origin, not here, for the following reason. The group is small, 1 500 or 2 000 persons per year. Many of these underage children are consciously sent to Europe by their parents, including our country, because they know that the chance that they will be able to stay here permanently, through the status of asylum seeker or possibly regularised through a special protection statute, is perhaps a good opportunity. Under pressure from many action groups who have abused the situation and who have tried to relax asylum legislation, migration legislation tout court, various legislative proposals and drafts have finally been made. A circular letter was issued for 2011. The Law of 12 September 2011 amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals and the granting of a temporary authorisation to reside as unaccompanied minor aliens have given data subjects a kind of protection status. This means that if a young person cannot be reunited with his parents or if reunification is not in the interests of the younger person, he or she will have a permanent right of residence in Belgium after a maximum of three years. It is remarkable that this is also the strength of change, Mr Secretary of State, after reading the report of that discussion, that the N-VA did not want to go as far as it currently stands. The N-VA was not in favour of this law at all, quite the contrary. Mrs Dumery climbed the speaker's chair and even tabled three amendments to a law, the text of which is now a relaxation. At that time, only one procedure could be invoked at a time. It is either asylum or the special protection status. Well, the amendments tabled by Mrs Dumery of the N-VA were clear. She said that there should not only be proof that they had gone to school, but that they should also have knowledge of the language of the educational institution where they had taken lessons. In her second amendment, Mrs Dumery felt that the regulation was not strict enough, because under-age foreigners could not then be questioned by youth protection law and so on. She thought that should be the case. There was a third technical amendment. The law wasn't strict enough for the N-VA back then. Today, the N-VA co-subscribe to a bill that still softens the 2011 law. I don't understand. I'm glad the chairman of the N-VA has arrived. He'll probably be able to explain. This is a symbolic law, I know. It is only 1 500 to 2 000 minors per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u87	Mr Dewinter, we are talking about a good 1,000 minors a year. So you should not exaggerate, there are not 2 000 or 2 500. We are just trying to avoid the fact that minors have grown up in their proceedings over the years. They then run school, know Dutch and are well integrated, while in the end it turns out that they have to go back to their country of origin. It is not because we are now making it possible for them to accumulate the procedures, that they are therefore all entitled to a right of residence in this country. Avoiding poignant discussions is one of the reasons why these procedures should now be combined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u88	Mrs Smeyers, I know your argument. I can only note, however, that you are giving in to the pressure of the asylum and migration lobby, which, of course, repeatedly abuses the sometimes poignant cases in order to further relax asylum legislation and migration legislation. In the end, that is what is happening now. It used to be either the asylum procedure or the protection procedure. Now one can do the two. I will conclude, Mr President. Now we can start the two procedures, which in practice we all know will mean that the finality will never be in the country of origin again. Everyone will be evident from the first moment, the law allows it to use the two procedures and one will always stay here. If the refugee status is not obtained, the protection procedure for a lasting solution will be invoked. One will be integrated, playing in a football team or be with the youth movement. In short, the person concerned must remain. That is what it will mean in practice. I'm just surprised you didn't help pass the 2011 law. You were against that at the time. You even tabled three amendments to tighten up the law at that time. Today, you're in favour of relaxation. Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u89	Mr Dewinter, every Member is free to speak in this Chamber. I do regret that neither you nor your group were present in the committee where the debate took place. We could have expanded there and you would probably have learned a lot about the procedures. If you had listened earlier, you would also have heard that I said that the number had decreased over the years. If people are entitled to protection regardless of whether they are young people or adults, they are entitled to protection regardless of their number. Whether it's 10 or 10 000, I don't care. There are certain human rights that will always apply, regardless of the number. I gave you numbers earlier that you apparently didn't want to grasp. I said, among other things, that 152 people called for the protection procedure last year, which we introduced together with the N-VA, among other things, in the previous legislature. So that's really not that much. I have also said very explicitly that many young people are eventually reunited with their families. Children themselves do not choose to move to another country and live apart from their parents. Often this happens because of pure misery, because their parents have died or for many other reasons. If these parents are still alive, those children will be reunited with their families. I said this, too. These are all matters, Mr Dewinter, which you seem to be reluctant to hear. You will then come to the plenary to say a number of things. You'd have better come to the committee. I will invite you, Mr Dewinter, to come and have an extensive debate in committee next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u90	Mrs Lanjri, it is strange that everyone is always afraid to have the debate in Parliament's plenary. I've been a Parliamentarian for about 27 years. I would like to have the political and also the ideologically underlying debate here, where it should be held at the time of the vote. That is embarrassing, because usually there is already a consensus with all kinds of agreements among the majority and related opposition parties, and then people do not like to have some more difficult questions asked or difficult comments made. I do, however, take very little of your comments in this regard: I will continue to do so. I can only observe that we are coming from a situation without protection, about a circular letter, a law in 1980 and a law in 2011, which the N-VA was opposed to and has tabled an amendment to tighten up, to date, yet another relaxation which, in practice, means yet another regularisation procedure for illegal immigrants. Illegals who do not even get the status of political refugee will now be able to use that protection status at the same time, which will allow them to remain. That's the essence, in normal human language. Admit it. If that's what you think, if that's your point of view, if that's what you're trying to do, that's okay, because that's political. But admit it! That is the reality, and you must dare to do so. My fear is that behind all those crocodile tears that are constantly being padded on every file used and abused to ease asylum legislation and foreign law for such minor illegals, this is yet another new immigration channel when there is a relaxation. This is a regularisation of minors who do not get refugee status and this can create a new suction effect. We will look at the figures over the next few years, whether we are talking about an average of 1 500 as is currently the case. It may well be that after this relaxation the tamtags in Africa are ruffling again and another opportunity is being seen to send underage children to Belgium. It is then certain that if they enter here as a minor and cannot be reunited with their parents in the country of origin, and do not obtain refugee status, there will still be the protection status, so that their sandwiches are baked and they can stay here for eternity. That is the reality, and you must bear that in mind, Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u92	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (377/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (377/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee to amend the Law of 15 December 1980 on the admission to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards the granting of a temporary authorisation to reside to the unaccompanied minor alien." The Court of Justice of the European Communities decided to stay in the territory of a Member State other than that of a Member State of the European Communities and to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling. The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u94	Pursuant to Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties, replaced by the Law of 2 April 2003 and amended by the Laws of 23 March 2007, 18 January 2008 and 6 January 2014, I inform you that the Audit Board was installed on Tuesday 20 January 2015 and that this was reported in a report signed by the President of the Chamber. Pursuant to Article 1, 4°, of the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as on the financing and open accounting of political parties, replaced by the Act of 2 April 2003 and amended by the Acts of 23 March 2007, 18 January 2008 and 6 January 2014, I inform you that the Monitoring Commission was installed on Tuesday, 20 January 2015 and that this is reflected in a report signed by the Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u95	Following the retirement of Mr Romain Lesage, the Chamber should appoint a new councillor for the Dutch Chamber of Accountants. Following the retirement of Mr Romain Lesage, the Chamber must appoint a new adviser to the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the establishment of the Court of Auditors, the Boards are appointed by the Chamber. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors, the advisers are appointed by the Chamber. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 January 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 January 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u96	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 January 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Criminal Code as regards the criminal liability of legal persons, No. 816/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u97	- the bill (Mr Benoît Dispa and Mr Benoît Lutgen) amending the Code of Income Tax 1992 to promote investment in the real economy, No. 819/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u98	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 January 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposed law (Mr. Raf Terwingen and Ms. Sonja Becq) amending the Criminal Code with regard to the criminal liability of legal persons, No. 816/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u99	- the bill (MM. Benoît Dispa and Benoît Lutgen) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, with a view to promoting investment in the real economy, No. 819/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u100	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u101	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 13 January 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 013/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 013/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the expenditure budget of the French Community has, for many years, included appropriations to subsidise a non-profit organisation which thus finances a French-speaking private school in Voeren. That's probably been going on since 1992. Officially black and white since November 2005, as from the 2006 financial year it is a fixed item in the expenditure budget of the French Community. As you all know, the French Community does not have the power to subsidise education or other institutions in Flanders. That is a flagrant violation of the Constitution. I was therefore pleased that the government is so committed to federal loyalty, but this is a flagrant violation of it. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court can test the federal loyalty. With this motion, you ask the government to appeal to the Constitutional Court and put an end to the flagrant violation of the Constitution. If you support the simple motion and move on to the order of the day, you will show that a flagrant violation of the Constitution does not really bother you and above all that the federal loyalty serves only to make the Flemings fit and clearly not to tackle French-speaking incivism. It's up to you! I am very interested in your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u103	Mr President, on this vote, as on other votes resulting from the inquiries by the Member who spoke, we shall abstain. We will abstain for a simple reason: it is out of the question for us to support the position defended by the Vlaams Belang. Moreover, as an opposition party, we are also not prepared to give confidence to the government, especially in the light of a number of responses given by the government, notably by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon. Since the theses mentioned by Mr Jambon are sometimes extremist and do not respect the Constitution, we cannot give him any reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u104	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u105	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 13 January 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 007/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 007/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u106	Mr President, allow me to explain my vote for the three motions together, because all three of them deal with different aspects of language legislation. My first discussion was about the fact that appointment files and promotion files of the Brussels police are no longer checked for their conformity with language legislation by the Vice-Governor of Brussels. Of course, we call on the Minister responsible for the Interior to change the language legislation to that effect, so that it does, because that is much needed. A second aspect of the language law is that the same vice-governor in Brussels does not suspend appointments where flagrant language legislation is violated. Even though he knows it's not okay, he's running a policy that doesn't suspend short appointments. In doing so, he naturally encourages the lack of bilingualism in the provision of services. The Minister of the Interior of the Government is also responsible for dealing with this problem. We therefore call on the government to act with the motion of recommendation. A third interplay was about the fact that the Council of State has already had to suspend many disciplinary sanctions against Brussels police officers this year, precisely because language legislation was flagrantly violated in the course of that disciplinary procedure. In these police colleges there are also politicians, executive officers and they do not know enough of both country languages to be able to judge properly in disciplinary proceedings, which, of course, is not in line with the rights of the defence. Measures should therefore be taken to bring together the police colleagues only from persons with sufficient knowledge of Dutch and French who have also taken a language examination at Selor to prove that. Language legislation is a federal matter, which falls within the remit of the Minister for the Interior. If you really want to change the pathetic bilingualism in all those services in Brussels, then you have no choice but to support all those motions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u107	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 81 Yes No. [[26]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u108	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 13 January 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 008/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon and Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 008/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Franky Demon and Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u109	The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u110	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 13 January 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 January 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 012/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 012/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u111	The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 100 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (678/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (678/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u113	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 125 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (377/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (377/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-22-54-plenair-ip028x.u114	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 29 January 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the meeting on Thursday, January 29, 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 January 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 January 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
