ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, during the great holiday Microsoft launched its new operating system, Windows 10. I then stayed by the sea and inspired these and other questions. Many users who had Windows 7 or higher could upgrade for free, with my apologies for the many English terms. However, there is a danger, with a standard installation all tracking and data collection options are checked. The privacy statement of the new version also predicts little good, as it states that Microsoft collects a whole laundry list of personal data. Firstly, what is the Belgian Government's position on this privacy statement? Secondly, is this privacy statement in accordance with European and Belgian privacy laws? In the meantime, you are already a bit specialised in this. Third, did the Privacy Commission investigate those new statements? If so, what is its decision or analysis? Fourthly, how can federal institutions monitor citizens' stored data if one would switch to working posts with Windows 10 as an operating system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to add my voice to Mr Van Hecke's question. Indeed, it is true that the upgrade to Windows 10 may be a breach of privacy, especially since Windows would store all visited websites, favorites, mobile hotspots and the like. In de privacyverklaring van 45 pagina’s lezen wij het volgende, opnieuw in het Engels helaas: ”We will access, disclose and preserve personal data, including your content (such as the content of your emails, other private communications or files in private folders), when we have a good faith belief that doing so is necessary to protect our customers or enforce the terms governing the use of the services.” It's about a good faith. That is quite vaguely defined in the regulations. Are you aware of Microsoft's data collection and its privacy statement? Have you asked for advice from the Privacy Commission? What's the conclusion? How does it react in other countries? What is the European Commission's view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u3	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. I am pleased that you are inspired by the sea, Mr Van Hecke. I sometimes need that, too, but I'm too little at the moment. Any processing of personal data is indeed subject to the law of 8 December 1992. This means that personal data must always be collected in a targeted manner. So it is not possible to collect data in the wild. The data shall not be re-used for an incompatible purpose. If data have been collected for a given purpose, then the same data should not be used for another purpose. They can't be excessive. They must therefore be proportionate to the initial objective. It is not intended to collect as much data as possible to find a needle somewhere in a haystack. It can't be. The data subject must also be informed and must have given consent. This is stated in the Law of 8 December 1992. I am indeed aware of the privacy statement of Windows 10. I've contacted the Privacy Commission about this. They informed me that they received the representatives of Microsoft for a first exchange of views on 14 September. It is true that Microsoft could not immediately answer all the questions of the Privacy Commission. The Privacy Commission has made a new appointment. They're gonna keep talking. There will be additional questions as we proceed with the investigation. Belgium is not alone in this. After all, we are talking about a multinational. Fourteen other European data protection authorities have had similar consultations with Microsoft. This shows that Microsoft's privacy policy also applies in those countries. At the meeting of 23 September, the day of your inspiration, Mr Van Hecke, the so-called G29, the Article 29 working group of the European Data Protection Authorities came together. It was decided to launch a European and coordinated investigation. So Belgium is not going to do that alone, but together with the privacy authorities in the other countries. In the first instance, a questionnaire will be drawn up to address the various issues of this new privacy policy. I look forward to the analysis of these privacy experts. This study will have to show whether the federal institutions need to take additional steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I understand that the issue will be examined with colleagues at European level. That seems to me to be a good thing because the same statements may be linked to the new Windows 10. It seems obvious to me that we are moving forward, but once again: should the European be a little lazy, we expect you to take matters into your hands and not to wait endlessly for research to be carried out. The past experience shows that the spirits have matured, that it is known that it is sensitive and that it must be improved. That is a good thing. I hope we will see results soon. As far as the fourth question on the federal institutions is concerned, you say you will wait and see. Suppose there are upgrades to Windows 10 in the administration, wouldn't we better give concrete instructions on what to check out or not? It seems clear to me that we can already give preventive directives to our administrations and Cabinets, because not everyone knows perfectly how to deal with such matters. The step to Windows 10 may not yet be taken within the federal administration, but I assume this will happen soon. I therefore call for this aspect to be emphasised and for directives to be spread preventively. That may be the responsibility of your colleague in charge of civil service matters, but I think you have a role to play in this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u5	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I have an additional question. It is good that this is brought to a European level. Has the G29 provided a timing to give its opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u6	Mr Geerts, I will answer the last question first. I lay down authorities to which I have nothing to say no timing. As you know, the Privacy Commission is still an organisation of this Parliament until today. I cannot give a single order to this, nor should I under the law, let alone the European G29. I can only ask them to work as quickly as possible. Mr Van Hecke, you're right. For your information, I will inform my colleague in the civil service that he may be well advised to take the necessary preventive measures. However, as you know, it is not my competence. Privacy covers the whole of society. I am, of course, watching over all society, Mr Van Hecke. However, I will certainly inform my colleague in the civil service. That's a very good suggestion. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, when I originally tabled the question, it was only the opinion of the European Advocate General. In the meantime, there's already a verdict. That is why I have amended my question and forwarded it. In Schrems' case, in fact, a case on the safe-haven protocol....................................................................................................................................................................... There would be too easy and too wide access for the security services. Among other things, the Snowden case has brought this to light and was decisive. That way the safe-haven protocol has been suspended. One has a certain short time to return the data to European servers. This will of course affect Facebook, the most well-known example, but also its own companies that have developed applications for American servers, such as Amazon and the like. It may also have a positive effect on domestic hosting companies and domestic data centres, but this will not happen in the short term. You announced that Facebook will have to comply very clearly with Belgian privacy laws. The storage of private data in the US is therefore no longer possible. Can the Privacy Commission verify that? Does it in any way have the possibility to check whether companies do not store the personal data of European and Belgian citizens in the US or other countries? What means do you provide to support that control and from what envelope? Which companies or applications do you think are covered by that ruling and what consequences does that have?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, on 23 September, the Advocate General at the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered an opinion calling into question the validity of the so-called Safe Harbour Agreement, an agreement concluded between the European Union and the United States. As a reminder, U.S. companies can import personal data from European citizens to the U.S., provided they do so in accordance with European legislation. The system is imperfect, particularly in that it is based on self-certification. After Edward Snowden's revelations in 2013 about the mass espionage of Europe by the NSA and the active collaboration of US private companies, the suspension of the safe harbour was demanded by many European officials. A clause in the Safe Harbour clause certainly allows the US authorities to access the personal data of Europeans in the event of a threat to their national security. But in 2000, when the agreement was concluded, Europeans did not imagine that the Americans would misinterpret it. The Advocate General considers that it allows for "massive and non-targeted" surveillance. This is all happening while the safe harbour is in the process of renegotiation. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, will the government ensure that the transfer of personal data to US companies is terminated without delay? How do you intend to proceed in such a way? What is the status of the negotiations on the new safe harbour? Have the negotiators considered the Advocate General's findings? What is Belgium's position on this issue? Are there any disagreements between the European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, the introduction given by my fellow Members was quite complete. I will not repeat them. What does this ruling of the Court of Justice mean in concrete terms, especially for our country? What control and enforcement mechanisms are opposed to this? Does the Privacy Commission have sufficient resources to take up this assignment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u10	If the European Court of Justice follows the Advocate General's conclusions, what will be the consequences in terms of the transfer of personal data to the United States and third States? Has Belgium already started a reflection on the transfer of personal data from citizens to third States? Could measures be taken to ensure respect for citizens' rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In the history of privacy, October 2015 will remain engraved. A European decision on which more than 4 000 American companies have been based for 15 years has been invalidated because the decision no longer adequately protected the privacy of European citizens. This is a major event both for privacy and for the economy. I have always argued for a balance between privacy and the economy. Today, I believe even more strongly in a synergy between the two aspects. Not only will privacy be strengthened, but the same rules will apply to US and European companies, so both sides of the Atlantic are on an equal footing in terms of privacy protection. In fact, I am satisfied with that progress in both areas, privacy and economics. The destruction of one day of the safe harbour decision can, of course, have profound changes for companies. Although the long-term effects are positive, in particular by improving the protection of European citizens' data, a transition period will be crucial in the short term. That's what this means. This means that this transition is now in the hands of national data protection authorities, including the Privacy Commission. Following this introduction, in which I make it clear that there must be a balance between the protection of private data and economic interests, I shall deal with the five points raised in the questions. 1. Firstly, Belgium's participation in the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. I have been very attentive to the Schrems case and, since I took office, a year ago. On my initiative, Belgium intervened at the Court's hearings. Belgium supported the view that a data protection supervisory authority should be able to effectively monitor the correct application of the data protection rules and, where appropriate, take action. We have defended before the Court some conformity with the European level in order to avoid a different protection between the Member States, but if the level is not sufficient, the Member States must be able to assess and take the necessary measures, because the decisions on adequacy, such as safe harbour, must be able to assess themselves in the light of all the circumstances which may evolve and change over time. 2. What is the ruling of the Court of Justice? The judgment confirms Belgium's views, namely, firstly, that any European decision must respect fundamental rights and thus the right to privacy; secondly, that the existence of a safe harbour decision cannot in no way restrict the investigative powers of the national privacy authorities; thirdly, that national privacy authorities should be able, over time and in the light of events, to assess whether the safe harbour decision is compatible with fundamental rights. The judgment goes even further, in that it declares the safe harbour decision invalid. Finally, I would also like to stress that the judgment ultimately equates US companies with European companies in terms of compliance with privacy laws. This creates a level playing field. This will hopefully encourage US companies to consider storing their data in the European Union in order to process them. 3. What about the data transferred today? As long as safe harbour is invalid, data transfers can no longer take place under the cover of this agreement, which only concerned transfers between the European Union and the United States. Should all data transfers to the United States be suspended? No, because there are other ways to transfer the data. At your request, I will give you details of the other mechanisms resulting from the 1995 Directive: standard contractual terms with the recipient of the data in third countries, binding corporate rules, and, in some cases, the fact of invoking one of the exceptions, e.g. the consent of the data subject, contained in Article 22 of the Law of 8 December 1992 with regard to the processing of personal data. On the question of suspending flows to the United States, the government's role can only be to formalise a decision on the European Union's data protection tools, of which the Privacy Commission is a member. As a reminder, the national data protection authorities are independent and I want to respect the separation of powers. The Privacy Commission already has some investigative means. During the reform of the Commission Protection of privacy brought about by the adoption of the Regulation in January – if the Netherlands and Luxembourg agree – these issues of means will again be addressed. 4. What actions are we planning to take to accompany the companies in order to strengthen privacy protection? I am aware of the potential legal uncertainty of this judgment for businesses and citizens. That is why I have expressed this concern to the European Commissioner for Justice, Mrs Jourová, who confirms that I will make it a priority. I would also like to emphasise that the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is a judicial decision that applies to everyone. At European level, the safe harbour decision should be replaced. At national level, we will guarantee the independence and investigative powers of the national data protection authorities. I come back to Group 29, which brings together the data protection authorities of the EU Member States and has adopted the following position: "A common approach to the implementation of the judgment is important. We ask the Commission to negotiate a new safe harbour decision before the end of January 2016. During the three-month transition, the impact of the judgment will be further analysed in the other ways of data transmission. Those other ways shall remain valid during the transitional period, without prejudice to individual evaluations by the control authorities. We will also encourage the control authorities to organise awareness-raising campaigns for the benefit of citizens and businesses. We welcome the initiative of our own Privacy Committee to organise an information session in the Federal Parliament next month, on 27 November. The chairman of the Privacy Commission, Mr Debeuckelaere, asked me to be there as well. 5. What will be the consequences for the negotiation of a new safe harbour between the European Commission and the United States? The European Commission informed the Member States at the JHA Council on 8 and 9 October that the commercial part of the new safe harbour has been finalised. However, the results of the negotiations on the security aspect were put on hold pending this judgment. These discussions will resume with a common will to finalize the agreement, given the urgency and for the purpose of legal certainty. The Commission highlights three priorities for this new decision: 1. Ensure that citizens' data will be effectively protected when transferred to the United States. 2. Ensure the continuation of data transfers to the United States. 3. Ensure coherence and coordination with national supervisory authorities. I come to my conclusion. I call for a harmonised European approach and a continuity of data protection while respecting privacy. I agree with the conclusions of Group 29, which supports the same approach, by providing for a transitional period until January 2016. For a long time now, therefore, I have been in favour of a wide range of national data protection authorities. I am quite clear in all areas. In the Flemish Parliament I was in favour of a very strong media regulator, and in this Parliament I have been in favour of a strong privacy regulator ever since I joined. Pending the regulation that will strengthen the powers of the authorities and of the European level, I will carefully analyse the investigations of the Privacy Commission on cross-border data flows and the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed reply. As I said, this has a dual effect in the short term. This may be a problem for our application developers using US infrastructure, but in the longer term there are opportunities for our economy, especially for our hosting companies and data centers. I follow you when you say that we need to tackle this together, that there must be a harmonised approach and that we do not need to ride a bike in between. After January, after the end of that transitional period, we will have to take our task to heart and we will have to stand there with our enhanced privacy regulator. We're gonna have to work on that. In this respect, I remain curious about the resources you will reserve for this purpose. Working out the regulator function is one thing, but it must also be able to function, and for that money is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your extremely detailed answer. Be aware that I will not fail to dissect the five points that you have put forward. With regard to the transfer of personal data to U.S. companies, you have stated that, given the fact that safe harbour is suspended, Directive 95/19 prevails and that the consent of the person is required. How can such consent be given in practice? Is there not a risk associated with this transition period? On the other hand, you talked about the balance between economics and privacy, and the importance of having continuity in the flow of information that will be transmitted. It is pleased that Europeans are far more protective of data dissemination than the United States. Every effort must be made to safeguard this fundamental right of European citizens. We will wait until January to see how things will come about.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed reply, which I will look into further. I believe that this is a European story in legal matters. In my last question, I asked you if the Privacy Commission has sufficient resources to carry out its mission. I understand from the statements made by my fellow Members that the Budget and Finance Departments will support you. This aid cannot therefore be doubted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic257x.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the completeness of your answer.
