ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u2	Mr President, I am a little surprised to discover the list of oral questions, as you have photocopied and transmitted it, since our group had chosen to question the Prime Minister about the political situation in which we are following the various comments made by members of the majority on the nuclear issue. If I refer to the Rules of the Chamber, Rule 124, point 3, makes it clear that the questioner designates the minister concerned and indicates the purpose of the question. This morning, we tabled a formal question to the Prime Minister. It was not indicated that the Prime Minister would be absent today. We therefore wish to ask this question to the Prime Minister. The situation is serious enough to raise this issue with him. I conclude by quoting a sentence that the Prime Minister himself uttered when we interviewed him last week. He said: "I also want to tell you the government's commitment to avoid inaccuracies and misunderstandings in the communication." I think that today the Prime Minister must explain himself on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u3	Mr President, I hear Mr Nollet's remark and I do not understand it. Last week, the Prime Minister responded to no fewer than seven inquiries. We exchanged for more than two hours and the Prime Minister was extremely precise. Of course, this issue is important, but it becomes, in the head of a part of the opposition, a real obsession. I repeat, we spent two hours there last week. Interpellations have been developed. Today, it is expected that the responses will be provided by the relevant ministers. That seems self-evident to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u4	Mr President, I would like to go back to Mr Ducrame's remarks. Mr Ducrame, this is not just any question. It concerns the safety of our people, in a case where the government has committed a lot of mistakes. We ask the Prime Minister to come and explain himself, not for the pleasure of disturbing him, but because this is an important matter. We want to understand how Mr. Bens, the boss of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAA), was able to make such serious comments. I would remind you that he described Mrs Marghem's project as "a somewhat bizarre legal acrobatics", that he relativized the Fukushima accident and that he spoke of corruption in Kazakhstan. Well, it's not a big deal, you'll agree. Hearing the Prime Minister about this would, I believe, be important. Secondly, yesterday we heard differences of appreciation between the parties of the majority. In a Belga dispatch, comments by the N-VA and the CD&V which were not in favour of Mrs Marghem's position were developed. It would be important for the Prime Minister to explain this. Finally, we would like to understand why this government refuses to hear the boss of the AFCN in committee. Mrs Lalieux asked for it in the Committee on the Economy; it was refused; Mr Thiébaut asked for it in the Committee on the Interior; it was refused. This chapter of lead and the government's refusal that we hear a man who is essential to nuclear safety is the responsibility of the government as a whole. Beyond the application of our Rules of Procedure and Mr Nollet's very relevant arguments, but for our country's place on such an important issue, it is essential that the Prime Minister does not hide behind his ministers and that he come and explain himself to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u5	Mr President, the importance of the dossier has been demonstrated many times, both in committee and here in plenary. We don't need to talk about that anymore. It is indeed about the safety of our country's citizens and not just about safety, but about nuclear safety. It is not the first time we have had a discussion on this subject. If government members make different statements on the same file, if different parties of the majority make different statements, then it is obvious that we can ask questions about this to the Prime Minister. Once again, it is not the first time that the Prime Minister is absent, but unannounced, and passes the matter on to the relevant minister or ministers or State Secretary. Of course, this is not often about the opinion of specific ministers, but about the fact that different statements are made and that final responsibility lies with the Prime Minister. He must explain the situation and tell us how we will deal with the dossier in the future. I called you to see what happened. You claim to have consulted, including with someone from my group, and then it was said that the ministers will reply. It's not about the ministers, they have to answer. If a Member has any questions for the Prime Minister, specifically about, for example, disagreement in the government and something as important as nuclear safety, then I think it is obvious that he is responding and nobody else is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u6	Mr President, I certainly do not want to minimize the importance of the subject, quite the contrary. I don't think the majority does either. With regard, among other things, to nuclear safety, we also had a debate here last week with the Prime Minister, in the presence of the relevant ministers. This shows that the majority also attaches importance to the dossier. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall rarely or never intervene when colleagues from the opposition stand up for their rights. Everyone is already part of the opposition. Sometimes that's educational. They take lessons and are sensitive to them, even when they are part of the majority. I suggest you take a look back. In previous legislatures and, for example, during the previous legislature, and you all know how much I respect and will continue to respect the previous Prime Minister, the times when the Prime Minister has had the Minister responsible answer are countless. Don't forget that, colleagues of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u7	Mr Verherstraeten, I question what you say about the presence of the previous Prime Minister. He was present almost every Thursday. You are right to say that there is a job that must be respected and that it is the ministers directly responsible who answer the questions. But, as I said, since last week, two new elements have intervened! On the one hand, the incredible statements made by the boss of the Nuclear Agency and, on the other hand, by the majority, different sensitivities on a more than hot dossier! Therefore, given the importance of these new elements, we simply ask that Prime Minister Charles Michel be present and respond to Parliament. What's the problem with him? We are not trying to attack or destabilize him; we simply want the Prime Minister to be able to explain himself and calm the game, in view of the new elements I have just mentioned, in a matter that has been happening for weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u8	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, you are making a very strange argument. It is true that the Prime Minister was here last week and answered questions. However, that is also his job, Mr Verherstraeten. Meanwhile, new facts have surfaced this week. Mrs Onkelinx just mentioned them, in particular the statements made by Mr Bens, who are not gratuitous. I'm sure you'll agree with that. There were also statements by several members of the majority parties who contradict each other. That too is a new fact. It is not because the Prime Minister came to Parliament once that he should not come next time. It's his job to be here. It is also his job to answer them, if there are any questions, also questions from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u9	Mr. Speaker, I note that the Prime Minister refuses to answer the questions asked of him. (...): He does not refuse!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u10	Mr President, my neighbour has just given an important sentence. Indeed, to hear it, he does not refuse. In that case, maybe he's on his way. Mr President, you are very familiar with the Rules of Procedure. According to the latter, it is the member of the House who appoints the minister concerned. In this case, given the subject matter of the question, the Prime Minister was appointed. I do not understand how, as Speaker of the House, you can accept that he is not present when the question is addressed to him. This is the simple application of the Rules of Procedure. What is the rule you are referring to? Don't appeal to Mr. Patrick Dewael! You're the president in office. As president, Mr. Patrick Dewael belongs to the past!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u11	I assure you, Mr. Nollet, I have no problem with Mr. Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u12	Mr. President, I am addressing you. On the basis of Rule 124, 3 of the Rules of the House, it is the member who designates the Minister whom he wishes to examine. So I ask you to bring the Prime Minister in. It is quite possible to consider starting the oral questions with the other questions that have been tabled and concluding with the question that is the subject of our discussion. If this is just an agenda issue, we can be flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u13	Before taking the floor to Mr Denis Ducrame, I would ask those members who wish to speak again to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u14	Mr President, I will let you make the right decision. Do we have to hear in this Parliament the Prime Minister being questioned on the same subject several successive Thursdays, while the answers he gave last week during what was basically a mini-debate touched on our energy independence, our supply, the need for and the requirement of safety in this matter? All the answers, very clear, have been given in remarkable calm in view of the parliamentary habits that have been taking place in recent months. Mrs Onkelinx, you deprived us of a debate yesterday, you left the Chamber and said, almost authoritarianly: "We suspend the debates." However, it had been agreed in the Conference of Presidents that all committees should be abolished because the plenary meeting was to be held. You deprived Parliament of the work it was supposed to do on Wednesday afternoon. With a little humor, some even wondered if it was because of Roland Garros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u16	Mr President, is it possible to speak freely and without interruption in this Parliament? Another thing: by depriving us of debate yesterday, Mrs Onkelinx, you did not allow all the parliamentarians of the majority and, in particular, their group leaders, to speak again on these issues. We have therefore taken the liberty of producing a press release, signed by the majority group leaders, to reaffirm that we will stand by in terms of energy policy, in particular for the two dossiers put forward by Mrs Marghem, and that we will stand by. We know that you will reuse all possible strings to delay approval of these projects, perhaps even endangering our energy supply for this winter. Then you will be the one responsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, I am going to stand up for a moment, because you think that is more impressive. This opposition has been asking for a debate for weeks now. Well, then, have the debate! We were here yesterday to have the debate. You didn't! You have re-examined procedures and regulations. In the meantime, we know this opposition. Mrs Onkelinx, you know yourself because you have also indicated your desire to change style. Mrs Onkelinx, until today, you are not doing very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u18	I give the floor to Mrs Onkelinx for a personal fact and then it will be Mr Hedebouw's turn. And then I'll say something myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u19	Mr President, first of all, on yesterday's debate, you know that it was possible to hold it. If the majority had decided, the debate would have taken place! Contrary to what you say here and there, it was not an element of fliber, but a healthy opposition. When we know how long we have been kept from the advice of the Council of State, which is murderous to the bill, having the opinion of the Council of State in general discussion seemed essential to us in order to carry out a good debate in this body. In other words, it was this desire to conduct a quality debate that led us to work on the basis of the scheme: amendments – Council of State – plenary assembly of the parliament. Mr. Ducrame says, "We'll hold!" It's not up to him to say that! It was eventually the Prime Minister, or there was a change of role that I don't know! Mr Ducrame, you are not yet the head of government I know! It may come one day; wait, be patient! I say and I repeat that the Prime Minister must come, that he is not afraid! It's not that hard to answer to parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u20	Mr Hedebouw, it shouldn't take too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u21	Not too long, not too long... Let me begin, Mr. President! We're not gonna turn around the pot! The question of who answers the question is a highly political question. It's not a technical question. The question is whether, in the question asked, there is a government-wide responsibility, not just the minister, or whether the responsibility is confined to a single minister. It is therefore a political choice that a parliamentarian makes when, in the morning at 11 a.m., he puts his question to the Legislative Secretariat. What I cannot stand, Mr President, is that it is the executive that decides the political relevance, namely who is asked the parliamentary question. I propose, Mr President, that we respect today – and I agree with my colleague, Mr Nollet – the request of the parliamentarian and that we allow the Prime Minister to answer the opposition's questions. I'm sure he'll come with his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express myself only in Dutch because I can be most precise. First of all, the government is one and indivisible. In principle, it is enough for one minister to respond and that binds the entire government. That is the principle on which we agree. I understand very well that the statements made by the Director of the FANC are worth discussing in Parliament. I have also been in contact with the Prime Minister, who pointed out to me that he is not competent in this matter and that the responsibility for security lies with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Interior. Mr Bens, of course, has also said other things about elements falling within the competence of the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem. The idea was therefore to have the questions answered by the relevant ministers. Moreover, Mr Nollet, there is no problem at this stage in the government. That is a substantive assessment for which I put my hand in the fire. Apart from that, I must also point out to you that these are the last two elements that I would like to put forward. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u23	It is up to the President to ensure that the debate is conducted as effectively as possible. I'm trying. I admit that this is accompanied by a substantive assessment, and I take full responsibility for that. However, I can also point out to you that you can at any time interview the Prime Minister on this matter, on anything, and that, if you really want to do so, you can request the presence of the Minister in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Well, you'll have to do that in due course, so now. I would also like to point out to you that, of course, I have held discussions on this subject, including with a prominent colleague of your group, Mrs Temmerman, to whom I said that the Prime Minister would not reply, but the ministers responsible. As far as he is concerned, and he is not the first to be the best, if you will allow me to say so, there was no problem. Mr Calvo, you have the floor, but we are not going to prolong the discussion ad infinitum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u24	Mr President, I would simply like to ask how you distinguish between prominent members of this Chamber and non-prominent members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u25	You're right about that. I did add...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u26	Mr President, this is particularly sensitive to the opposition. We had this debate a while ago. At that time, we had reached the agreement that you would consult the various groups if there was cause for conflict or ambiguity. You didn't do that today. You simply referred my question to the Prime Minister about the division of this majority in this difficult, sensitive dossier unilaterally. While my fellow Members are examining the possibilities offered by the Rules of Procedure to advance the Prime Minister, I would like at least to invite you to meet the commitments made in the future. That is a first point. Secondly, I do not want to prolong the procedural debate indefinitely, but I have noted very well that you say that you understand very well that Mr Bens' statements give rise to a parliamentary debate. You said that a moment ago, and I fully agree with that. Well, pending the removal of the Prime Minister, you might at least agree that the Chamber and the relevant sub-committee of Mr Vanvelthoven may hear Mr Bens before the final vote on the draft Objective. This question has been asked several times by several fellow Members, including Mr Lalieux. We want to be able to consult Mr Bens on these statements, in addition to the questioning of the politically responsible. This is systematically denied by this majority. In order to be able to work in a serious way, it would therefore be a good thing, first of all, that you fulfil your past commitments. Secondly, the Prime Minister should be here today to deal with such a difficult dossier. Thirdly, we could at least decide that Mr Vanvelthoven could invite Mr Bens to the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee next week, before the final vote. Mr Vanvelthoven can check availability. That is what I think we should at least be able to decide in the light of this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u27	Mr President, I agree with what my colleague Kristof Calvo has just said. We all respect Mr. Vande Lanotte, who is an eminent member of our assembly. We are proud that he is with us on the benches of the opposition. But we still find that all members of this House, whatever they may be, must be considered in the same way by the President! Mr President, you did not contact my group leader, you did not contact the political secretary, you did not contact us. It's not a nice or polite attitude! Mr Calvo also made a proposal. He recalled that the majority refused to hear Mr Bens in the Committee on the Economy. The majority refused to hear Mr Bens in the Committee on the Interior. It seems to us that, on such disconcerting comments on a subject that has occupied parliamentarians for months, this Parliament has the right to all transparency, serenity and information, as the Prime Minister said last week. Today, he is not entitled to this! There is no Prime Minister today or Mr. Bens' hearing. I ask that you commit yourself now, personally, at the request of Ecolo-Groen, to holding a hearing of Mr Bens before next week in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u28	Mr President, it would be logical for Mr Bens, who has repeatedly come to explain his policy in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, to come forward with an explanation in the subcommittee which this Chamber has authorised, all the more so because I understand that his statements are not only in the press and in this Parliament but also in the governing board of the FANC. In other words, it would be a good thing for this House to hear Mr Bens. I am, of course, prepared to look for a date next week so that the subcommittee can meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u29	Firstly, the committees are in charge of their own work, and I do not wish to interfere. The committee may decide to do so, but I am not going to impose all kinds of work on the committees myself. Secondly, in connection with the consultation, I have to tell you that I did not see the problem coming, and I actually thought that the Prime Minister's proposal was better than that which was originally on the agenda. So I think it would be better if the two competent ministers replied instead of the Prime Minister himself. But I have only consulted with Mr Vande Lanotte and I apologize, I will call everyone next time. I was not aware of the problem, but that will not change much on the substance of the matter in this case. I also propose that we move on to the order of the day. I repeat, one can interact and progress and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u30	Mr President, as has already been the case on several Thursdays, I regret to say that I am once again outraged. Besides, I'm not alone with my indignation. Today thousands of people were present at the trade union demonstration against various measures taken by this government. I would like to speak specifically today about one measure of it. I'm sure you read the example of the single mother in De Morgen. This is a single mother who has been working part-time for 9 years and who will see her income guarantee paid in half from 1 January 2017. Minister, you know that the income guarantee scheme has just been created so as not to push part-time workers into poverty. You also know that the majority of people with part-time jobs are women, and often they are not willingly in that situation. In committee, you defended your measure by saying that you will encourage employers to offer more hours to part-time workers. I also asked you: Minister, do you really believe that by taking a benefit you will encourage employers to hire more people? At least I don't believe any of that. I read that you said you wanted to start an investigation into the consequences of this measure. Does that mean that you have realised that this measure is not good and that it will only bring people into poverty? What concrete steps will you take to prevent part-time workers from poverty? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u31	Mr President, Minister, many of the socio-economic measures taken by your government, which we constantly denounce, will, as we all know, have an extremely negative impact on workers, pensioners, the unemployed and patients. Today, I would like to draw attention to a particular target of women: working women, unemployed women, retired women, sick women. As we know less, it is women who will be more affected by your actions. Moreover, it is this policy of social regression towards women – and let us not be afraid of words, it is really a policy of social regression towards women – that denounced the demonstration that I participated in this morning. If you want more specific examples, if you question my word, I will give you a few steps taken by your Government. The tightening of the conditions for access to early retirement pensions and the postponement of the statutory pension age to 67 years will affect part-time workers. Who are part-time workers? Most of them are women. Changes in the calculation of public sector pensions will also have a greater impact on women, since it is mainly women who work in the public sector. Another measure is the reduction in maternity leave. Again, it is women who are affected, as no postnatal support measures are foreseen. But one of the measures that I really find unfair is your government's decision to halve the income guarantee allowance. This allowance enables women who work part-time involuntarily to receive an essential complement to meet their needs and those of their families. Minister, I will go right to the point by telling you that 40,000 women are affected by this measure. If I ask you about this problem, it is because you have announced to the press that you want to refine this measure. Have you finally realized the harmful impact of this? Do you intend to revisit this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u32	Mr President, Mr Kitir and Mr Winckel, you know that the government agreement provides for two measures on income guarantee payments, the IGUS. We have negotiated two measures under the Government Agreement. The first measure is a new method of calculating the surcharge, in particular a return to the method of calculation prior to 2008. This new method of calculation has been applicable since 1 January 2015. The second measure, which you have both discussed, is the measure on half the supplement after two years of part-time work with the grant of that income guarantee benefit. That measure will apply from 1 January 2017. The figures, which we have also requested, are very important to give. After all, we see a sharp decrease compared to the 2014 figures. At the end of 2014, we counted 51 124 workers with income guarantee benefits. On 30 April 2015, there were 38 838 workers with such benefits. That is, a decrease of no less than 12 286 compared to the end of 2014, or 23.5 %. I could add more figures, but I have to keep an eye on the speaking time. Mrs Winckel, you are right to say that the situation for women is serious. I have the figures here: a total of 29 413 women and 9 425 men. One element I would certainly like to take with me is the reason for that second drop. The second measure has not yet been taken. Why did that figure fall so strongly? Where did these people go? With regard to the halving of the IGU allowance, I am aware that it has an extremely important impact on the income of part-time workers. In addition, you are right to say that it is mainly the single woman with child burden. Mrs Kitir, you have rightly referred to this. The halving of this benefit certainly cannot or must not create a new unemployment trap. There are four consequences for which I am very sensitive. Firstly, part-time workers end up in full unemployment. Secondly, the expenditure on unemployment will increase. Thirdly, the demand for part-time workers in the labour market will not be met. Finally, the income of those concerned is falling sharply. Mrs Kitir, it is true that I have instructed the RVA to closely monitor and monitor developments. We examine the consequences and the impact that a halving could have. On 9 June 2015, I have a meeting with the Women's Council and the Feminist Socio-Economic Platform. On the basis of the elements of the RVA and on the basis of the approach of the various organisations, we will examine how we will further address the measure and, where appropriate, implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I would ask you, on behalf of the entire sp.a. Group, not to do that half cut. Mr. Secretary, do not execute them. If you are afraid that you will lose face by withdrawing that measure again, I would like to inform you that in the past, in other cases, you have already proven that you are sensitive to the complaints and to the call of the people on the street. Just think of the Mantelzorg dossier and of the exemption dossier for the SWT. The measure will only bring people into poverty. I therefore call on you once again not to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Like my colleague, Mrs Kitir, I will speak on behalf of my group. We ask you not to take this step. In particular, the government agreement provides for the fight against poverty. I have already called on the Secretary of State, Mrs Sleurs, on numerous occasions to apply gender mainstreaming at the level of government measures. We know that these measures will have an impact on women. You quoted numbers. Do you know that in Belgium, 860,000 women live below the poverty line or at the poverty line? This number speaks for itself. It is therefore important to look back and work together on policies in this area. Minister, I will allow myself to come back to the matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u35	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr.Minister, last week I called the Prime Minister to this rostrum. I understood that he would become more involved in the management of this case. He seemed to be taking things in hand. He doesn't. I did not participate in the previous procedural debate, I did not fight about it. But the contents of the file are calling me. I have some concerns about the validity of the Prime Minister's statements last week. Let us come to the facts, Mr. Minister of the Interior. In an interview given to the daily Le Soir, Mr. Jan Bens, the director of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, spoke of unlikely corruption while on mission to Kazakhstan for Tractebel in 1995. During this session, he himself proposed envelopes. Mr. Bens goes on to add to the newspaper Le Soir that, yes, he was offered envelopes. That's surprising! The boss of the AFCN also makes other remarks that limit the number of Fukushima victims to two dead. One fell from a crane, the other drowned. No collateral damage. Admit that the statement is surreal! As a reminder, the AFCN is the institution of our country whose possible authorization to extend the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear reactors operated by Electrabel is expected, but also the report on the cracks of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. AFCN has already authorized the restart of Doel 4 after sabotage, the author of which is still unknown. This restart seemed dangerous to us in the light of the situation. Jan Bens reminds Le Soir newspaper that AFCN will not give the green light if Electrabel does not undertake to carry out the work necessary for Doel 1 and 2's life extension. Minister, what credibility can still be given to the Director of the AFCN after these statements? Mr. Bens admitted to receiving and delivering envelopes. Does this not call into question the fact that the Director of the Agency is totally independent and irreproachable? Shouldn't we be certain that the guarantee of the safety of our power plants is unfettered? Minister, could you commit yourself to communicating the results of your analysis of the situation as soon as possible? I'm concluding...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u36	No, sir de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u37	Yes, Mr President; I ask our colleagues to wake up, including colleagues from the majority... [[mic cut]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u38	It's over. Mr de Lamotte, we must not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u39	Mr President, I shall first address Mr Ducrame. Mr Ducrame, I am very pleased that you have drafted a joint statement with the leaders of the majority. If I believe my experience, it is only when a problem arises in the majority. I'll come back to my question. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, you must admit that the draft law is a constant surprise. We cannot allow Mr Bens' statements to be passed. He has said that a number of envelopes have been given and that a number have been given. Afterwards, he returned somewhat to his statements, but admit that this is a curious statement for a Director-General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, if it is not already criminally prosecutable. He also mentioned two deaths. Someone fell off a ladder in Fukushima and someone drowned. That's it! If this is the level of assessment of what we need to be protected against, then this is also questionable. Moreover, he has this law an "acrobation juridique, un peu bizarre," as if acrobation is not enough in the legislation. According to Wikipedia, acrobation takes place in loose or consecutive contiguous tricks in the circus. A fourth element has not yet been mentioned. I think it's weird that people don't say this. From heer Bens verklaart: "For the first time, it seems realistic to start in November". Hij heeft het dan over "a potential revival in November of the two plants". As head of the FANC, he says that both cracks can be restarted in November. You should also know that during the discussion of the draft law, it was said all along that we must assume that restarting is not possible. I'll be very brief. What will the government do with someone making such statements? You said yourself that the FANC is the barometer you want to base on. You have rightly said this and we have accepted it. We are talking about the agency that will decide for you what needs to be done. Surely that agency should be above any question of partiality? How are we going to at least return the impression of impartiality?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u40	Mr President, I will speak to the Prime Minister, as if he were there, because it is important that he speak on behalf of the government. After more than a month of debate, it can be said that the balance sheet on this issue is without appeal: hidden documents, repeated lies, a bill atomised by the Council of State, a decredible minister, a fissured majority and, now, as my two colleagues have reminded us, a totally destabilised nuclear gendarmerie. How far are we going to get into this file? How far will the government go? Last week, the Prime Minister supported the method of work. He supported non-compliance with the opinions of the Council of State and the AFCN; he supported legal insecurity, insecurity for citizens, and insecurity of supply. He has not even convinced his own majority, which is now totally cracked. Should I recall what Mr Wollants said? Mr Wollants, you said Doel 1 would not be in operation this winter. I believe you. We've been saying that for weeks. Mrs Dierick, thank you for saying that this is a real improvisation. I do. We support you. And we say, what amateurism! But what amateurism! What improvisation? The terms are even harder. Mr. Vande Lanotte, you're right. When group leaders make a press release, there is a real problem in the majority. Today, however, the government was faced with this problem. What is even more serious is that the boss of AFCN, today, is no longer credible. He said: "Yes! I got envelopes and I gave envelopes." "The Fukushima nuclear accident is almost nothing because there were only two deaths." And he's also talking about a little weird legal acrobatics. It's even better than an acrobatics! Yes, it was time for the Prime Minister to come and explain himself. I would like to remind the majority that it is not us who put cacophony in this dossier. The statements of Mr. Bens, the statements of the CD&V or the N-VA, are not us! We are not inventing the situation and cacophony. We are simply reacting and asking this government for a new moment of lucidity. Remove your project! It is time for serious work on security of supply in this country. As I said last week, you will then have the support of the opposition, which has alternatives to propose a completely chaotic project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u41	Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister for Energy, 'windmills are more dangerous than nuclear power plants', 'eurocent cracks', which subsequently turn out to be 18 centimeters tall, the declaration that only two deaths have occurred, while local Japanese authorities are talking about 1 656 deaths in Fukushima as a result of the nuclear disaster, to have given and received the testimony envelopes, all of which are statements, not from spokesmen of the Nuclear Forum, the nuclear lobby, but from Jan Bens, Director-General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The C stands for control and should never stand for corruption in our country. After the Energy Minister has accumulated the political errors and the falsehoods, after the entire majority, all Members of Parliament from the first to the last, have organized the intransigence, after they have kept the pot covered in this difficult, sensitive dossier, there is a new delivery. A new energy manager makes mistakes in such an important dossier, the approach of which will determine whether the lamp will be lit by our citizens and businesses in the coming winter. That is what we are trying to do in recent weeks: if we have tried to do our work as opposition and bring things up, then it was with the ambition that our country deserves better than such old political culture. Our country deserves the light to burn. Of course, we have to ask questions. Of course, the Prime Minister should reply to this. It is strange that there is a discussion about this in our assembly, in Parliament. That is why I am asking the people present two specific questions, which I hope, Mr Jambon and Mrs Marghem, you will both give a concrete answer to. Firstly, it is inevitable that the functioning of Mr Bens will be questioned. Tomorrow there will be a board of directors of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. You have a government commissioner in there. What will be your position? I'm just making a simple suggestion. Let us organise an audit on the operation of the Director-General and the Management Committee. Is that what you want or not, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? As far as you are concerned, Mrs Marghem, we have stood on our rights as a Parliament and asked for an additional opinion from the Council of State. That'll give you a chance to do your homework. Are you prepared to come up with a winter plan within that five-day period, in which the various alternatives on the table have been worked out, to ensure that the lamp will burn in our country? That is what our citizens and businesses deserve. I hope you will respond to that suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to say that Mr Marghem will reply immediately on the legislative work. I will try to answer the other questions. Like all of you, I also took note of the interview with Mr Bens in Le Soir last Monday. The interview of a page covers a number of topics, including his activities in Kazakhstan at the time, when he worked for Tractebel. First of all, I would like to repeat what Mr Bens said in that interview. I quote. I quote: "I found myself the great boss of a box of ten thousand people, with implausible corruption." In reply to the question whether he had also used envelopes, he replied: "Oui, et joeben ai proposé à dioautres'. It is evident that such statements by someone in such a position raise questions and that this requires explanation. The Agency responsible for nuclear safety must, in all circumstances, be able to demonstrate full and irreproachable credibility and integrity. Its director must of course be a reflection of these fundamental values. That is why my firm, after reading the interview, contacted the Chairman of the PSAN Board of Directors directly and asked him to clarify these statements as quickly as possible. Article 23 of the Act of 16 March 1954 on the supervision of certain public interest bodies, including the AFCN, provides that "where the general interest or compliance with the law or regulations so requires, the minister concerned or, where appropriate, the commissioner of the government delegated for that purpose, may require the managing body of the bodies of categories B, C and D, to deliberate within the time limit set by the Minister in respect of any matter which it determines." The management powers of AFCN, a Category C organization, are entrusted to the Board of Directors. Mr Calvo, as a minister, I do not wish to intervene in the deliberation of the board of directors. My government commissioner will be there tomorrow, but without a director. The board should be able to hear Mr Bens, judge him in all his neutrality and then come to me with an opinion. What else does the law say? I think there are two possibilities for the Minister responsible. Either I can follow the advice of the board of directors of the FANC, and that's the decision. Either, if I disagree with the advice of the board of directors of the FANC, it will be on the government table. I will follow that procedure in that regard. My government commissioner will go to the deliberation of the board, but without executives. We leave the board of directors to judge freely and in all wisdom. I will then take note of the assessment and the opinion of the Management Board. The ball is therefore initially in the camp of the board of directors. Mrs Lalieux, as far as government policy is concerned, let us be very clear, and we have always said so in committee: we will first vote on the bill and then the AFCN will conduct a security inquiry. I myself as the appropriate minister and the government as a whole will follow the advice of the AFCN. We've always said it and we're keeping it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u43	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so we have been discussing this in committee for a few weeks and I would like to point out, to make it clear to all Members of Parliament, that in this matter, in order to provide the legislative framework for the extension of Doel 1 and 2 which is the implementation of the government agreement to ensure security of supply for the country for the next winter - a short-term measure - there were three possibilities, three legal reasonings that we could follow. The first, the one we follow, is to say that Doel 1 and 2 have received from the outset an individual operating authorisation which is of indefinite duration. The 2003 law, which provided for a deadline for the release of our nuclear power plants by 2025 and at the earliest when they reached 40 years of age, provided for a kind of switch. Under this switch, Doel 1 finished injecting electricity into the electricity grid of that country on February 15, 2015. The government's view, on which we do not agree in committee, is that the legislative framework that we want to submit to you and which we want to discuss with you, is the switch that will allow Doel 1 to leave, knowing that the initial authorization has never ceased to exist. This is contained in the texts. There were two other possibilities. Retroactivity: ensure that by means of legal fiction, we go back in time to ensure that the law comes into force on February 14, 2015, the day before the switch controlled by the 2003 law no longer allowed Doel 1 to inject electricity into the grid. I have been led to communicate it to you and it has led to criticism on your part, but we have communicated it. You have had the opportunity to go through the text of the Council of State's opinion on the government's draft amendment, with all the necessary explanations, including in the presence of my colleague Jan Jambon, on this government test of the second legal position, which was retroactivity. As my colleague Jan Jambon pointed out in committee, the government had indicated that it would not follow this second possibility if the Council of State were not in favour of it. That is what we have done since the Council of State was not in favour of it. The third legal reasoning that we are not following is that of a new authorisation and that is what you are advocating. Indeed, from the outset, we believe that the authorizations have not ended, that they have been granted for an indefinite period of time, and that the legal logic is that we act in accordance with the legal logic of our bill, a legal logic that has been used and recognized, I see. I am not going to comment on a court decision, but you have seen that Greenpeace brought a legal action against the Belgian State before the Brussels Court of First Instance for interim relief. The judgment came out on 1 June and in this judgment the magistrate follows the legal logic of the government, namely that the authorizations that are provided to the power plants, in the case Tihange 1 (it is Tihange 1 that is under attack in this case) and Doel 1 and 2 (because Greenpeace extended its action during the proceedings), are authorizations that are provided for an indefinite period and that only the permission to produce electricity and inject it into the network has ceased and can arise again through a legislative framework. That's the explanation. As far as the amendments you have tabled are concerned, we will see what the opinion of the Council of State is, and we will have an opportunity to discuss them at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, Parliament and Belgian citizens have the right to transparency and clarity in all areas, which I do not think is the case here. Mr. Minister of the Interior, is it possible to adopt the system applied in committee and give permission to the majority to hear Mr. Bens to come and explain about the statements he has made. Indeed, this would be the best way to ensure that all the clarity is made in this area. Mrs Marghem, your interpretation of the texts is contested, and that interpretation will be debated in the course of your consideration of your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u45	Mr President, I have just asked the Deputy Prime Minister a question. If the board takes a decision saying that it no longer trusts Mr Bens, the matter will be over. Then so be it. I'm assuming you won't overrule that. I understand that if the board believes that Mr Bens can function normally, then the government still exercises the right, which it has legally, to think differently. I'll follow my colleague in that. Mr Bens must have the confidence not only of the board, but also of the government and therefore of Parliament. When the Governing Board finds that there is nothing going on, I think that we need to hear Mr Bens here, together with you, so that the government hears Parliament's concerns about this situation. I've listened to you very carefully. I trust that when the board says that there is nothing going on, we will come back to it and, if necessary, Mr Bens, we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u46	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I do not, of course, question the procedures you mentioned. We share the principle. On the other hand, this Parliament can legitimately ask itself: what is there to hide? Why was Mr. Bens' hearing refused twice? I would remind you, as you have done quite rightly, that it is the AFCN that will have to give its green light. In addition, the government has completely changed its mindset with respect to all previous governments. Indeed, no independent foreign expert will give his or her approval prior to the authorization of the AFCN. In addition, you do not accept that the person who has destabilized this institution be heard in Parliament. This seems unacceptable to me! On the other hand, we did not intervene here to discuss an umpteenth legal analysis of this bill, but to find out what was happening in the government. Once again, I ask you to shoulder your responsibilities in order to avoid legal and supply insecurity for the country and insecurity for our citizens. That is why you must withdraw this completely chaotic bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u47	Mr President, I would like to raise two points. Mr Vice Prime Minister, you are the light of day in that dossier. This has a lot to do with the actions of Minister Marghem and Mr Bens. I do appreciate the fact that you said with us at the beginning of this week that Mr Bens' statements cannot be made. However, I am disappointed that you are not using your options on the board of directors, which will meet tomorrow. On the board of directors is a government commissioner, and that is a cabinet member of your own. You can send him on a very clear mission by saying that at the FANC the current situation cannot, that something must change. You do not use that instrument, while the Commissioner for Government has been appointed to that purpose. The minimum minimum is that you say that the questions should be asked, that an audit should be drawn up and that this nest should be cleaned out. I am sorry that you do not accept that suggestion. Madam Secretary, for the thirty-seventh time, you say that this is your personal legal advice. However, that is not entirely true, because you did not write it yourself, you wrote it over. You will now read that advice again, but you will not respond in any way to my suggestion that a winter plan should be drawn up. You're Secretary of Supply Security, aren't you? It is your responsibility to keep the lamp on. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have fifteen days. During that period we can do what Mr Wollants asked in the newspapers. Let us do what any reasonable person would do at the moment, in particular to identify and develop the existing alternatives. A winter plan can then be submitted in Parliament, so that Parliament has security and prospects for energy supply. Madam Secretary, that's your job, and that's what you're paid for. It's time you did your job, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u48	Mr Minister, we heard from the press that a few weeks ago photos appeared showing unacceptable behavior of persons after the autopsy on the remains of two jihadists who died during the action in Verviers. The photos show how those people in the autopsy room hold a bottle of champagne. They are photos that we certainly all call distasteful. The photos would have gotten mixed up with the official autopsy photos in the autopsy report. The persons concerned have not yet been identified and the investigation is ongoing. The general police inspection will now investigate, among other things, whether there were police officers involved in the incident. What exactly happened at that autopsy will show the investigation. However, one thing is clear, namely that it will have repercussions: increased vigilance is needed and citizens may turn against our police again, which may also jeopardise the core tasks of local police. In concrete terms, were you already aware of the photographs that were present in the autopsy report before the press article appeared? Were there any similar incidents in the last five years? How's the investigation going now? Who will carry out the investigation and what are the possible sanctions? What measures will be taken following an increased level of threat as a result of photocopiers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u49	Mr Demon, let me be very clear: like you, I am outraged and I find such behaviour unacceptable. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. As far as your specific questions are concerned, I have only been informed of the photographs at the time they were published in the La Dernière Heure newspaper and also in other newspapers. Of course, I've made inquiries. As far as I am aware, such facts have never occurred before, or at least have not been known to us. Fortunately, this is a one-off fact. I had an investigation started immediately. When we saw the photos, there were no policemen on them. However, I immediately had the AIG, the General Police Inspectorate, carry out an investigation to see if there were any policemen present in that room, how such photocopiers ended up in the investigation and how everything came out afterwards, because that too is a serious fact, which will also be investigated by the AIG. In addition, the Attorney General is conducting an investigation to determine whether sanctions for inappropriate conduct should be imposed within his area of competence. As far as the threat measures are concerned, I have asked the crisis centre and the OCAD to consider whether additional measures should be taken by publishing the press releases on the photographs. The analysis happened the same day. Immediately, the necessary measures have been taken, and I shall not, for obvious reasons, publish those measures in order to ensure the safety of all agents, staff and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. It is important that you make it clear to your people in the police and the staff that you should be informed immediately, if such photocopiers or such material were to appear in a file. This does not only undermine the security but also the credibility of our services. It is good that you have taken immediate action. It is a good thing that immediate action has been taken; we must learn lessons from the incident for the sake of the credibility of our authorities and transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u51	Mr Minister, the Nation Group, a well-known extreme right-wing group - a group of small nazillons - has shown itself on several occasions in recent weeks and in an intolerable way a few days ago. We were all shocked by the violent assault on a homeless man in Luxembourg. It must be admitted that, in this context, inquiries were carried out with the help of military personnel who were in fact close to the European Parliament. We have been struck, if not by this resurgence, by the existence of radical groups, violent extremist groups, who are acting against the weakest. This completely intolerable fact is no doubt an opportunity to put the magnifying glass back on what we must produce against all radicalisms, these extreme right radicalisms, these violent radicalisms. It is also a struggle that we must wage, perhaps in a particular way. How, with your services, do you intend to step up the fight against these groups, monitor them more, probably prevent them even more? More generally, you indicate - but will not be able to reveal certain information in this regard - that the radicalism plan, at least its new version, is in the process of being finalized. We naturally urge that the fight against these radical right-wing groups, such as the fight against extreme left-wing violent groups, remain one of our priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very clear: this government is fighting against every form of extremism and any extremist group which is a danger to the security of the citizens of this country. As is the case with this government, security is one of my priorities. We cannot accept that certain extreme right-wing groups, extreme left-wing groups, etc., are a threat to our country. The Nation Group is monitored by both the police and the intelligence and security services. It also continuously assesses the threat posed by this extreme right-wing group and monitors its actions and, in particular, the incidents it causes or could cause in confrontations with extreme left-wing groups or persons or radical Islamists. Actions may be administrative or judicial in nature. It may also be a question of gathering information. On the occasion of evaluations of this group, carried out on request or on its own initiative, the OCAM may also propose certain measures to the authorities. LOCAM follows several extremist groups. They may be national or foreign groups when they mingle with the former or are present in our territory, in general, at meetings or demonstrations. If another example can be cited, one will mention the groupuscule l'Assaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u53	Minister, I thank you for confirming the government's priorities in this area and your willingness to continue to intensify the fight against those groups that attack the weakest. Indeed, in view of what has happened in recent days, this is the most striking aspect. I would also like to thank you for concentrating all the means of the competent services to extend this essential action.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u54	Minister, the VSOA's cell fire department, the largest interprofessional fire department, has filed a strike notice for all fire zones in the country. As a reason for the action, the VSOA refers inter alia to the non-respect of the legislation relating to the statute, the non-respect of the legislation relating to the employment regulations and the non-respect of the acquired rights. Minister, in March you gave a very detailed account of the state of the fire reform in the committee. You also said that there was still a lot of legislative work to be done and a lot of implementing decisions had to be taken, including training, specialization allowance, the statute, both administrative and pecuniary, the ambulances and so on. Meanwhile, a lot of problems have also emerged since the fire department reform came into play, such as volunteers who are not paid out or who are paid out wrongly. There are all kinds of problems, which means that we run the risk of demotivating and perhaps even abandoning volunteers. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. I understand that, two months after the presentation in committee, Question Time does not allow us to have an equally comprehensive state of affairs, but I would like to know what has actually happened in the meantime on the points raised by the VSOA. There are obviously problems in this regard, if that is a reason for him to threaten a strike. How will you try to prevent the strike? If she does, how will you guarantee safety? In short, Minister, how will you put out the fire?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Pas, thank you for your question. First, since 1 January 2015, 31 of the 34 fire zones referred to are already operational in the new system. This also means that the 31 zones that are now operational in that system are 31 employers of the voluntary and professional firefighters in their area. I'm not their employer. The college and the board of those zones are the direct employers. It is correct that we are currently in three of the areas of conflict between the employees and the employer. The conflict is not about the fact that the law would not be there, but about the way in which the employer, in the opinion of the workers, misapplysed the legislation. For this reason, one of the trade unions, the largest trade union, as you have rightly pointed out, has now given an undertaking to strike. What did we offer? Firstly, we have indicated that 2015 is a transitional year for us, in which we will assist the zones by inspection, rather we mean coaching and assisting them here, in order to make the reform a success. Secondly, in those three specific areas, we want to intercede between employers and employees to ensure that the law, which is effective in the areas mentioned, and the existing royal decrees are applied correctly and thus try to resolve the conflict. The inspection services are coaching the zones. There are now three areas where there is a problem. We will try to resolve this problem through conciliation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your specific answer. I'm glad you're taking the coaching and mediation to heart. After all, they are needed. I do not know whether you are familiar with the trust index, which is a kind of barometer for popularity and with which the population indicates which professions it considers to be most credible and in which professions it has the most confidence. Every year, the fire department is at the top of that list. The fire department is on trial at 96 percent at the top of the list and rightly gets the greatest confidence from the population. This contrasts with the politicians, who, thanks to the power parties, are dwindling at the bottom of the trust index in terms of credibility. However, the fire department deserves not only the respect of the citizen, but also of the government and of the local authorities. Therefore, Minister, I urge you to listen to the needs of the fire department and do everything you can to find solutions as soon as possible. We will monitor the problem closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the weather is beautiful today, and many people may already feel like vacationing. Some are certainly looking forward to a holiday abroad, but what they are not looking forward to is the mobile bill they will get on their return if they have been surfing the internet there for a while. These costs are, of course, caused by the fact that the operator abroad, on whose network one is located, charges far too high a rate to the home operator. These costs are even higher than what the customer pays. That's not like this anymore. This is not only not fun for those who travel, it is also, and above all, detrimental to our economy. 94 % restricts its use of telecoms abroad and many people even turn off the data function on their mobile phones. As a result, the operators lose a lot of income. A study by the European Commission even shows that they miss out on up to 300 million customers at European level. The European Parliament and the European Commission want to put an end to this, but at yesterday's meeting of the European Council they were coldly told by the European Council. Even a strongly weakened proposal to reduce tariffs could not be made before the European Council, and certainly not before 2018. Mr. Secretary, why is that? What exactly happened there? What can we do about it? Are they still the same countries that stand in the way, the southern holiday countries, the Club Med countries, where there is always talk of European solidarity, but apparently this is only seen in one direction? What exactly is going on and what will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u58	Mr Dedecker, as you know, our country has been in favour of the rapid abolition of roaming charges from day one. We were supported by Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and the Scandinavian countries. As you say, it is the holiday countries who have been dragging the process for months. They want roaming charges to be abolished only after June 2018. I am therefore pleased that this unnecessary delay is repeatedly rejected by the European Parliament. It is clear to me that in this case the interests of European consumers are lower than the interests of certain Member States. I think this is a big mistake. When talking about a digital single market, I do not understand why people are building a kind of tariff walls on the digital market, which has a lot of potential for economic growth and job creation. Now what? Next week, the European Telecoms Council will meet in Luxembourg. I can only hope that there will be a new dynamic there, and I want to give it every opportunity. At the same time, I believe that it is time for our country and for the Benelux countries to play a different role. As you probably know, the Belgian and Luxembourg regulators have made arrangements to avoid additional roaming costs. There is today a commercial offer between Belgium and Luxembourg. The Belgian, Luxembourg and hopefully the Dutch regulators should try to sit together as quickly as possible and to see how we can once again play a leading role. I believe that the role we play in Europe is one of positive and constructive cooperation. If it can be done faster at Benelux level, I am certainly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your voluntarism in this matter. Indeed, the importance of consumers is underestimated. However, it is much more important than the consumer. The negative impact of such roaming charges on the economy in general is underestimated. I gave you a number of figures, by the way. It is a huge income that is missing in the European economy as a whole. There is indeed a Belgian-European initiative, in particular a virtual operator who does not charge roaming charges between Belgium and Luxembourg. I do not know what initiatives the regulators have taken in this area, but I look forward to the debate in committee and to further initiatives on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns what we have read in the press, namely that Belgium has put Luxembourg on the list of tax havens. This concerns the fact that certain countries are classified by the OECD as non-admissible debt securities, non-compliant. A letter would also be sent about it. My question is this. What initiative will the government take in this respect? This problem has been raised for several months by opposition members Hedebouw and Temmerman. I actually expected them to ask this question. I thought you'd be pleased that the government is taking this initiative. Belgian companies will therefore have to declare transactions of more than EUR 100 000 in their tax returns this year. I think this is important. My question is about the rulings. We have had a number of questions about this in committee, including Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Hedebouw and Mr Van Hees. It was claimed that the Belgian ruling committee was illegal because it concluded rulings with Luxembourg. First of all, what timing will the government use in relation to that letter of conversion? Secondly, what exactly is this about? Will rulings no longer be possible? Thirdly, I read in the press that in a few months' time Luxembourg might be moved from the list of non-compliant to the cooperative list, working together. What exactly is going on there, Minister? The press uses all kinds of interpretations. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u61	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, since the 2010 tax year, persons subject to corporation tax or to the tax of non-resident companies have been required to report payments to persons established in certain states. I refer to the fifth paragraph of Article 307 of the WIB 92. This measure includes States which do not effectively and substantially apply the international standard on transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes. I refer to Article 307 (1) of the same code. By including in the legislation an objective criterion which is also assessed by an independent supranational body, in particular the OECD, there is a margin of discretion. I think it is important to mention that the OECD assessment takes place in two stages: firstly, an assessment of the legislative and regulatory framework and secondly, an assessment of the practical functioning of that framework. Only after both phases of the assessment have been completed will the Global Forum award a final assessment and a rating. On 27 May 2015, 78 jurisdictions received a final assessment on behalf of the Global Forum, with four jurisdictions receiving the final assessment non-compliant, as you said, and thus failing to comply with international standards. These four jurisdictions are the British Virgin Islands, Cyprus, Luxembourg and Seychelles. Those four jurisdictions are therefore subject to the reporting obligation just mentioned. All payments made directly and indirectly to persons established in one of those four jurisdictions shall be reported for all taxable periods starting from 1 December 2013, except where, for a single taxable period, the Global Forum would consider that a particular jurisdiction is no longer non-compliant. The FPS Finance will publish a circular on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's a good thing the letter is coming, because that's important. As far as the incidences of the ruling practices are concerned, we need to look more closely in committee at the outcome of the circular in which the Luxembourg Government regards Luxembourg as non-compliant. We will look at these potentially important consequences, because we are in the whole discussion of the rulings with LuxLeaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u63	Mr President, Minister, on two occasions I had a painful duty to sit on a parliamentary committee of inquiry, particularly following the detestable Dutroux case. For all those who have lived this time in parliament, they know how much it was a moment of strong emotion but also of an obligation to result in the fight against sexual crime. It should be recognized that the recommendations of parliamentary commissions of inquiry have undergone a number of legislative extensions and initiatives at the level of the judiciary and the executive branch, including the establishment of support centres to support sex offenders on parole or who are monitored by the courts. The latest annual report of the Brussels Support Centre (CAB) should be read to see the importance and quality of the Centre's work, with small teams that often rely on mental health centres supported by other levels of authority. However, the management of the CAB is rightly concerned with the government's announcement to cut operating appropriations quite substantially - by 20%. The Centre is currently working with a subsidy of some €180,000, which would be reduced to €147,000 under this decision, which has often been criticized, of budgetary restraint measures applied in a linear manner. In its 2013 annual report, the CAB specifically requested two measures: firstly, an increase in its subsidy to enable the commitment of a full-time equivalent in order to be able to cope with the influx of cases; and secondly, the resorption of the period within which the subsidies are paid to it, as it is obliged to borrow from banks and bear debt burdens. I read in your policy statement that "special attention will be paid to the repression and treatment of sexual offenders and perpetrators of domestic violence". Minister, when we are aware of the campaigns that have been conducted by Amnesty International or other specialized agencies, such as SOS Viol, that more than a third of women have ever experienced sexual violence and more than 66% of them have been sexually harassed, I think you need to take into account the needs and the call made by the Brussels Support Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u64	Mr. Chair, Minister, I felt that you and this government wanted to save justice from the linear cuts in public service costs. I also thought I heard you say that there would be no linear and blind measurement. I also thought that your intention was to limit incarceration and work more on alternative interventions. Similarly, it seemed to me that the fight against domestic violence was a priority. If I remind you of these statements, it is because recent events are proving the opposite to us. Support centres provide support to sex offenders outside prison facilities. When properly monitored, the recidivism rate decreases significantly. That is the objective pursued. However, the three centres will be targeted by budget cuts. The Brussels budget is particularly sensitive because of a very modest budget allocation of around EUR 180 000, which is likely to be reduced by EUR 140 000. The impact is huge for his team, which includes a psychologist and a half and three half. The service will therefore have to put the key under the doormat. For the past ten years, this centre has had to claim its subsidies, which are also not indexed. Therefore, the argument of a necessary evolution does not hold. Finally, the bailiffs are already at their door, because they did not receive the balance of 2014 or the first instalment for 2015. Does the federal government still intend to fulfill its obligations to these centres? Or is it a manoeuvre to get rid of their funding by handing it over to the Communities, while they are still institutionally dependent on the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u65	Mrs Gerkens, Mr Maingain, you are doing very well to ask me this question. In the course of the government negotiations, we decided to use a 20% savings on what is known as the voluntary allocations referred to in Article 2.12.4 of the Budget Act and to apply this reduction linearly. In the 2014 budget, €902,000 had been provided for all three institutions. Only 834,680 were actually granted as subsidies. This year, EUR 730 001 was voted in the original budget. In the Justice Plan, there is a need for more efficient and better services. You know this line. But I understand very well that the situation you describe is extremely difficult for organizations that do very important work for Justice. The evaluation report of the Criminal Policy Service of the FPS Justice indicates that the work of the organizations mentioned in relation to the treatment and support of perpetrators of sexual offences is of great value. This also applies to the Brussels Support Centre. The report highly appreciates the specific situation of the CAB, which functions as the central operator between Justice and specialised bodies. I am also saying a lot of good, as is the report, of the University Forensic Psychiatric Centre in Antwerp and of the Legal Psychopathology Unit in Tournai. The situation of the CAB in particular is very delicate, in particular because of its structure of ASBL stand alone. I am therefore quite prepared to discuss with my colleagues federated entities whether there are other possibilities for support. You can put the question to me in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u66	Minister, thank you for saying that we did well to ask you the question and that we would do well to rest it for you in a few weeks. But your answer leaves me somewhat perplexed and even critical, to say the least. If every time the federal government is faced with its own budgetary choices, the answer is: "I'm going to go and consult with the federated entities to see if they can replace the federal budget failures"... We have already heard this speech in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u68	Oh, yes! You will consult with the heads of the federated entities, you said in your answer, that I listened well. It's obviously an easy escape. No! Funding for what is within your jurisdiction remains the responsibility of the federal budget. I heard that not all the appropriations were used last year. I do not know which institution did not benefit from its entire subsidy. Nevertheless, needs must be met. Let us be careful, Minister: it is a policy choice that you must make! Either you consider it useful to have these kinds of institutions that prevent recidivism and thus the burden of the cost in prison of sex offenders, which is still an interesting budgetary objective for you, or you consider that the work is not necessary and you will have to assume tomorrow the budgetary burden of additional prisoners in prison. I think you're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u69	Minister, the annual budget of the CAB to accompany the follow-up of 300 people represents the burden of three people in prison for one year. You have to choose. You can release some sex offenders and you'll have better funding for the Support Centre. I find your reasoning vicious. Because, as I said in my question, the CAB did not receive the last tranche of 2014 or the first of 2015. Of course, the whole budget is not being used! The administration is well aware of this service, its difficulties. The failure to pay the subsidies on time, the failure to prevent a budget reduction at the end of April, is mistreatment by the administration. By your answer, I consider you to prolong this abuse. You say that you will see and that we are right to draw your attention; that's good. I hope, then, that you will intervene. There is no reason for you to waive your federal responsibilities, that you do not pay properly. I would remind you that there has been no indexation and that this decrease is not only blind and unjustified but also abusive. I cannot accept that your answer is limited to: 'I will consult the Communities to see if they cannot intervene in the financing'. This is not on the agenda because you are 100% competent in this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u70	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, this was not done under this Parliament, but you know that the criminal transaction was extended to fiscal and financial crime. As a result, large financial criminals are treated somewhat as if they had committed a parking error. By paying a small sum, they are exempt from prosecution. This is notably the case of Omega Diamonds, Chodiev and, more recently, Charleroi's businessman, Mr. Wagner. Mr. Minister of Justice, you would like to extend this transaction further. However, the Court of Auditors has issued a report in which it raises problems with regard to the uniform and transparent treatment of these transactions by the tax administration. I also go back to a former document from the College of Attorneys General which is not public but which I have obtained. The content is quite murderous towards the criminal transaction in financial matters. The statistics mentioned in the report indicate that it is the major financial crimes that benefit most from this criminal transaction. Several magistrates cited in the report say that "the people who have the means to pay for the transaction are clearly advantaged. Class justice: yes!" The report still states that there are formal meetings as well as informal meetings. It states that the amounts are fixed in "vogelpik", the term in the report. It also states that we are a little bit of carpet dealers, which is also referred to in the report. This is quite challenging about how criminal transactions are conducted. At the PTB-GO, we are clearly not for the extension of this regime but rather for its removal. Minister, will you take into account all the murderous opinions in the report of the College of Attorneys General?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u71	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, the remarks of the Court of Auditors of 13 May 2015, as you have just stated, relate only to the treatment of transactions by the tax administration. In any event, without wishing to take over the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance, a circular from the tax administration dated September 29, 2014 is intended to try to bring the various transactions concluded by the administration into convergence and to ensure that these transactions are governed by uniform guidelines. As far as the extended criminal transaction is concerned, you have another reading of the Prosecutors General's report than I do. I refer in advance to the answer I gave to Mr. Van Hecke, on 5 November 2014, also on the basis of this report. On the occasion of this reply, I recalled that the Attorneys General stressed the added value of the extended transaction, which avoids lengthy proceedings while being subject to internal control within the Public Prosecutor's Office, allowing compensation for victims and returning significant sums to the Public Treasury, in addition to the payment of tax and social claims. I read in this report that a fundamental change to the law was not considered desirable. I think we are talking about the same report. As far as I am concerned, I have announced that I will continue to consult with the College on the follow-up it intends to give to the conclusions and recommendations made in its first assessment of the extended transaction. As I have already announced, I want to answer two questions without waiting. First of all, I hope that the extended criminal transactions will now be entered in the criminal record so that the prosecutors and the head office cannot ignore, in the context of a case, that a suspect or defendant has already entered into such a transaction and of which leader. Secondly, I understand the discomfort that such a transaction may cause when a conviction has already been handed down and it is pending before the Court of Appeal or even the Court of Cassation. I consider that this procedure should no longer be allowed after a final judgement or judgment has been delivered on the criminal provisions, even if the judgement or judgment is appealed to the Court of Appeal or the Court of Cassation. I intend to propose this reform in a future bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u72	Minister, we have read the same report. If you have it in its entirety and have not simply read the conclusion, you know that there is a very great difference between the content of the report itself – I am thinking in particular of the passages written by the magistrates or, in any case, which are quoted – and the conclusion which can be described as an influential conclusion or a conclusion on request which, on the basis of very clear facts, is totally contrary to the content of the report. The report as a whole must therefore be read. You seemed surprised when I pronounced the terms "vogelpik", "carpet dealers", etc. Read the report, these terms are black and white. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, Minister, with regard to the issue of the extended criminal transaction, your past, as the founder of a law firm that defends clients who have obtained these criminal transactions - I am referring to Omega Diamonds - should push you to more restraint in this kind of highly political case. You should be careful; it is unbearable that justice, as reflected in his report, is ultimately seen as in bad police films, in which offenders negotiate with magistrates in the backyard. It is not such justice that we want or that the country needs!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u73	Minister, we could have said viva FIFA a few days ago. We all know how it ended. Around the award of the football World Cup in 2018 there has been a hint of corruption for quite some time. Honesty in sport, however, is essential. As former chairman of the Flemish Athletic League and member of the Belgian Olympic Academy, I have always kept an eye on the fact that there was not only fair play on the field but also next to the field. Soccer is obviously big business. However, the practices of bribes, fraud and scams are of such an order that we must ask not only questions but also questions from a political point of view. Sport is healthy and unites people. However, all this will come under pressure if the main sports federations are not integrity. In concrete terms, our country, together with the Netherlands, put in a prayer and put in for the 2018 World Championships. In 2010, the governments of our country made important commitments. They sometimes went very far, for example in the areas of tax exemptions, safety, logistics and stadium construction. They even asked for a separate lane on the highways for FIFA staff. The political authorities then made efforts to ensure that our candidacy could be applied as effectively as possible. The cost was estimated at 4.5 million euros. However, we would show ourselves to the world. If it is now apparent that there are irregularities, I believe that we should at least be symbolically associated with a complaint to review the investigation. Minister, I have four questions. First of all, do you think we're disadvantaged parties in the affair? Secondly, can we take a particular legal initiative to safeguard our interests? Thirdly, how can we cooperate in the Swiss investigation and possibly in the FBI's investigation in the context of transparency? Are you planning consultations with your Dutch and regional colleagues? Fourthly, what other initiatives are you planning to take to tackle corruption in sport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u74	Mr Janssens, you will agree with me that the time between the knowledge of the relatively superficial facts and the question of whether Belgium can be a disadvantaged party was very short. I am therefore afraid to comment on whether it would be advisable for Belgium or certain Belgian authorities to take a bourgeois case before the competent court. I do not think that the Belgian courts have jurisdiction in this area, or at least prima facie. On the question of what we are doing in the context of the investigation of the US and Swiss judicial authorities, I can answer that the competent Belgian authorities do not have an investigation that is related to the FBI's file, nor have they received any complaint or declaration, nor any question for international legal assistance, rogatory commission or any other question for the interview of witnesses or suspects. Of course, the judicial authorities will act as soon as they receive such a request. The Belgian State cannot, of course, prevent sports associations which have formally applied for membership from taking an initiative vis-à-vis the judicial authorities. I would like to be kept informed of this, but I would understand very well that these authorities are taking steps themselves. In connection with contact with the Dutch Government's fellow Members, I will not hesitate to ask them in detail when I meet them next week in the framework of the European Council and to see if we can plan a joint initiative. I hope to have more information by then. In relation to the fight against corruption in sport, that is not an exclusive competence of the federal prosecutor, it is wider than that. Our parquets work well in this area and have been very efficient in the past several times. I will also look into this question further if international developments show that we need to put either a broader criminalisation or better prosecution on the verge of doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u75	Minister, I am glad that you share some of my indignation. I really hope that the research will have a purifying effect for all possible sports organisations. Whether it is about doping in the Tour of France, the well-being of workers in Qatar or the economic impact of the World Championships or Olympic Games in the Brazilian Rio, we must never close our eyes to unethical practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u76	Mr. Chair, Minister, this Monday, at a meeting with the Prime Minister, representatives of cities and municipalities called for assistance from the federal government. Indeed, our communes find themselves in great financial difficulty, especially because of the cost of pensions for their officials. In Wallonia alone, 918 million will have to be found by 2015 to finance the pensions of municipal civil servants. Two main factors are at the root of the problem. The first relates to the cost of aging the population. You are well aware of this issue, since you, as Minister of Pensions, have made difficult but necessary decisions. The second element relates to the status of our officials. Depending on whether a staff member is contractual or statutory, municipalities are required to contribute at different rates: 8.86 % for contract workers and 33 % for statutory employees. However, an agent who, during his career, was contractual and then statutory is now considered to have been statutory throughout his career for the payment of the pension. In practice, this means that he will receive a higher pension than that for which he has contributed during his years as a contract worker. This has the effect of widening the deficit. This morning, you presented in the press two avenues of solution. The first consists of a mixed pension scheme designed to stop assimilating years as contractual to years of statutory status. The second is to generalize the second pension pillar for local staff. Currently, only 3% of municipalities use this system in Wallonia and Brussels, compared with 65% in Flanders. Minister, what specific measures do you intend to take to ensure the financing of pensions at local level? How do you plan to promote the use of the second pillar for our municipalities? Do you have any leads on how to negotiate and how to put it in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u77	Mrs Thoron, thank you for this question, which allows me to go back to the problem of financing local pensions. Indeed, the calls made in recent days by the unions of the cities and municipalities, in particular the statements of the President of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of Wallonia, clearly show that the problems persist, despite the law of 24 October 2011 on the financing of local pensions. This law clearly did not solve the problem. It has only spread out the costs, but it has not made it possible to slow down the evolution of the overall burden of pensions for local governments. It is also important to find a solution today to this problem, which is reducing communal finances. The aim is to set up a mixed pension. This means that those with a contractual career will receive a pension calculated on the paid sector for the years in which they are contractual. When appointed, they will receive a pension calculated on the statutory sector. Today, we know that, at times, contract workers are appointed at the very end of their careers, while they have contributed to the wage-earning sector and receive a full public sector pension. This is untenable in the long run and the responsibility lies with the municipalities. Everyone must realize that at some point the balance must be reached between contractual and statutory. If this mixed pension is to be realized, it is clearly important to also allow access to the supplementary pension for contract workers. Otherwise, their combined pension for employees and the public sector will be less than the total public sector pension. In this context, compensation should be allowed through access to the second pillar. I will make proposals very quickly on this subject, which will be subject to social consultation. In the meantime, I will take a royal decree, which I will submit to the Council of Ministers, aimed at somewhat reducing the contributions in the public sector of local administrations, so that the reserve funds currently available in the ONSSAPL, now the ORPSS, which manages the public sector pensions of local administrations, can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u78	Minister, thank you for your clarification and for your interest in this issue. As a mayor, it is quite obvious that I will be very attentive to the development of this issue. Beyond the solutions to be found at the local level, it is indeed the whole pension reform that is receiving attention; I would like to congratulate you on that. We need to put in place a dynamic around this issue in order to sustain our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, it may stink in the streets of Ghent, but the cesspool that is now opening on our tracks smells even worse. Today, Eurostation's audit has been leaked in the press and what it says confirms the suspicion that we had already had a long time ago. A lot of things went wrong at Eurostation. I'll give you a list. The list is endlessly long: megalomaniac station projects, loss-making projects in Sri Lanka, Jamaica and India, hundreds of thousands of euros worth of restaurant costs, hotel costs of 2 000 euros a day. Purchases for which tenders were never submitted in advance, large contracts without the approval of the Management Board. I can go on like this for a while. What is the added value of this for the rail passenger, for the rail worker and for the Belgian taxpayer? We believe that Eurostation has used public funds for the personal joy and pleasure of the management. The Eurostation train, in our view, is completely perfect and can no longer be repaired. Madam Secretary, this is just the tip of the iceberg. We want this dossier to get to the bottom of it. After all, to whom were all these suspicious contracts awarded? You are now considering whether legal action should be taken and the SNCB's board of directors will decide on this on 19 June. We think the least you should do is deliver these facts to the court. Who could object to that? Madam Secretary, what is your response to the disclosure of the audit report? Will you forward the results of the audit report to the court? When and how will you inform this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u80	Madam Minister, the management at the top of the SNCB Group is not on the right track. Unfortunately, that has become clear in the last few days and weeks. Is staying in a hotel room for 1 500 or 2 000 euros per night punishable? No. Is it reprehensible? Yes. Are restaurant costs of an average of EUR 7 000 per week, paid with tax money, punishable? No. Are they ethically irresponsible? Yes. Now, Madam Minister, after the audit with the real estate subsidiaries of the SNCB Group, it is clear to my party, the Open Vld, that there are at least the following problems there. First of all, conflict of interest with some top guys, resulting in waste. Secondly, internal control procedures that are either non-existent or on a dead end. How else is it to explain that such things could happen? Thirdly, award procedures, which must be strictly followed, have been trampled on. Is it necessary, more generally, for the subsidiaries, for all these structures? Action is urgently needed. One possibility is that you insist that the board of directors do not do so, the board of directors must decide this.. would report the facts to the court. In the short term, we expect you to give a strong impetus, a strong signal, to the parent companies SNCB and Infrabel, that it will no longer be possible to do so and that we must put things in order in a thorough and correct way. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. First of all, do you share our analysis after the audit? I refer to the problems I have listed. Secondly, what will and can you do as a minister? Thirdly, will you ask the board to report the facts to the court? Last, but not least, what lessons do you draw from this for your modernisation plan, which is now becoming very urgent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u81	Madam Secretary, you are now being asked by a member of the real opposition. My group shares the indignation of the other speakers and, by way of enlargement, the whole of Parliament. As Mrs De Coninck says, we were able to read today in De Tijd that part of the audit was leaked. I have a very specific question. A committee is scheduled for Wednesday. Can you hand over the documents on Wednesday or give access to them to the members of the committee? It concerns, on the one hand, the audit carried out by Ernst & Young and, on the other, the advice apparently requested from the law firm DLA Piper. As far as we are concerned, the investigation must certainly be conducted. You should see what action you can take, including with regard to the position of the chairman of the SNCB Board of Directors. I already asked that in committee. That is also what I say to my fellow questioners. However, the investigation must not distract attention from the fundamental issues. An audit and benchmark involving EUR 100 million in efficiency gains has been carried out. However, the government agreement states that SNCB and Infrabel must save EUR 633 million. That is the fundamental debate. My question is therefore, Madam Minister, when the government comes forward with its proposal to conduct this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u82	Colleagues, as a result of the correspondence between the CEO and the President of SNCB, I wrote a letter on 9 March 2015 requesting that SNCB and its administrative bodies carry out an audit on three subsidiaries of SNCB, namely Eurostation, Eurogare and Euro Immo Star. Following a public market consultation, SNCB entrusted Ernst & Young with the contract on 30 March. The audit covers an analysis of the financial flows between SNCB and its three subsidiaries, compliance with the legal provisions of internal governance and the clear rules of good governance. On Thursday 28 May, the day on which SNCB's board of directors met, I received the final report. I immediately repeated, by return letter, that it was my duty to obtain transparency about the said subsidiaries. I also asked the Management Board, which took note of my letter at its meeting, to confirm the truth and to evaluate the seriousness of any facts or actions that would appear to be interpretative. Once again, as a sovereign body, it is up to the Board of Directors of SNCB, and only this Board, to draw the appropriate conclusion. This is why the Management Board has sought legal advice on whether further steps should be considered in addition to the internal measures proposed by the delegate. The internal measures include, as you could read in the press, the dismissal of two Eurostation managers and new rules on governance. The next Management Board will have to assess the legal opinions received and the follow-up to be given to them. The Management Board will also have to complete the review of governance. Although, as a minister, I am not allowed to interfere in the internal administration of public undertakings, I repeat that I want transparency across the board of SNCB. That is why I will continue to work on a modernisation plan, or rather, on a true strategic vision for the coming years. After all, there is the past, which I constantly discover and which inspires me to define that vision. A radical change in the vision of the railways and the current business culture is needed. My intention is to provide customers with a perfect service, which is the core task.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u83	Madam Secretary, we are very pleased that you take the problem seriously. This case needs to be investigated to the bottom. I would just like to respond to what Mr Geerts said. Mr Geerts, your party is in the opposition in Parliament, but with SNCB it has been in power for many years and it is the current government that is bringing change for the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u85	Mr Geerts, Eurostation was always a branch of SNCB-Holding, led by your party colleague Mr Jannie Haek. Mr Descheemaecker was CEO of SNCB and had to work within a political framework. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u86	Yes. We are pleased that this dossier is finally being examined to the bone. We ask that the file be delivered to the court, which can also play its role in this matter, possibly through hearings, and that an audit be carried out by the Court of Auditors. Finally, we want to go one step further. We want to have the debate on the core tasks. After all, is the exploitation of a real estate branch at all a core task of our railway company?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and congratulate you on your initiative. At the beginning of March you ordered an audit and now this request is more than justified and necessary. I would also like to thank you for the radical change you are announcing and for your voluntarism in this matter. You want to get rid of the past. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. "Si on me laisse faire" was the head of a commentary in De Tijd last week. That must be the message today. Let everyone who means well with our railway companies do their job and get rid of the waste that has emerged from the audit, among other things. Madam Minister, I still have to say that I find it reprehensible to note that the railway company can, or could, be thrown away with money, while for budgetary reasons services are cut down, often not in a transparent manner. You were talking about transparency. Well, I refer to last week's press report that more than 30 points of contact will be closed, while the mayors and residents concerned do not know anything about it. I believe that the tax money paid annually by citizens is more than EUR 3 billion per year..... is not used for candy trips, but to provide punctual trains, smooth connections and accessible platforms for the train traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u88	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I have not learned much. I absolutely agree with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's reply when she says that the essence of the matter is that the traveller has sufficient offer. All waste must be avoided so that resources remain for the core tasks. However, the government must at long last take a stand on how the savings will be achieved. We believe that these savings are unrealistic and cannot be implemented without affecting the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u89	Secretary of State, the press and citizen mobilization – almost 12,000 signatures at the bottom of a petition – have largely relayed the dramatic situation of a little Rwandan boy welcomed by our country in 2010 to receive medical care and who has just received, with his family, an order to leave the territory, while his treatment is not finished. Behind this dramatic case is the question of the right to health, and more specifically the right to receive appropriate medical care for hundreds of people who seek, for medical reasons, a residence permit in our territory. There is also the question of compliance with certain international conventions, including the rights of the child. I would therefore like to hear from you on several points. On the basis of Article 9ter, the expertise carried out by the doctors of the Office of Foreigners is often contested. Is your decision, which is discretionary, the result of other expertise and counter-expertise on the files before you? There are remedies available to the Aliens Litigation Board. Is this opinion decisive in the procedure? I would also like to ask you about the "carousel" effect of withdrawing the decision of the Foreign Office in order to amend a few words and thus avoid an appeal. This practice seems quite common. This effect has been half-confessed. More generally, do you accept that people of whom it is known that they are condemned return to their country to go towards almost certain death? In the case of this little boy, but also in the case of many others, these people cannot be dismissed, since this is simply a violation of human rights as we know that they will not receive the necessary care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u90	Mr President, dear colleague, in December 2011, all parties voted in favour of a medical filter for regulation based on Article 9ter, because there was a lot of abuse. This bill was introduced by your colleague from the CDH, Mr. Melchior Wathelet, then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Generally speaking, I trust the doctors who work with the Foreign Office. If they are of the opinion that a return does not represent a real risk to life or physical integrity, or inhuman or humiliating treatment, my administration may refuse a request for regularization on medical grounds, Article 9ter. I can inform you that the support committee and the mother of the minor in question will be received tomorrow by the Director General of the Office of Foreigners to examine the various possibilities related to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. The purpose is not to challenge the procedure that has been implemented. But I haven't really had an answer to the question of whether the Foreign Office or you, who finally make the decision, sometimes make use of other expertise for very complicated cases. You have not confirmed to me this "carousel" effect of preventing someone from accepting a request. According to our information, this practice is often applied at the level of the Office of Foreigners. I thank you, anyway, that this little boy can be received with his family. This is a dramatic case that needs to be seriously considered. Behind laws, regulations, circulars, there are human situations that deserve special consideration. I hope that you and your administration will pay particular attention to this one, but also to other people who are known that, if they return to their country, they are going to a certain death.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u92	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 May 2015, the name of the Committee for Trade and Economic Law Issues will be changed into the Committee for Trade and Economic Law. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 May 2015, the name of the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law is amended in the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u94	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1041/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1041/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u99	Mr President, I refer to my written report. However, I would like to speak on behalf of my group on this subject. As my colleague Grovonius said during the debate in committee, in view of the socio-economic and political situation in several countries affected by this draft, we will not support this text. Indeed, while we can express the importance of encouraging and strengthening diplomatic exchanges and of developing economic exchanges with the countries of Central America, as is the case here, for our group, the Belgian and European trade agreements must not lead to a levelling down of social, health or environmental standards. Nor should these agreements threaten jobs and our businesses and sacrifice them on the altar of supposed growth or free trade in principle. We take this same position for all trade or free trade agreements. Similarly, we do not want these agreements to be used to reinforce or even reinforce threats to social and environmental standards in the countries we deal with, as is the case here. Under the guise of potential virtues of such agreements and the search for growth, we cannot accept everything and close our eyes to the already effective infringements of social, trade union, human and environmental rights in certain countries concerned by this agreement, such as Guatemala or Honduras, to name but a few. That is why our group tabled a motion for a resolution on the negotiation of such agreements a long time ago. Under the previous legislature, we had also tabled a text on Qatar, adopted by the House. We had demanded from the government guarantees of social standards. The news and everything that revolves around the FIFA scandal have given us reason once again. Our group had replicated the exercise by submitting the recommendations at the hearings. Unfortunately, this exercise has been rejected by the current majority. However, these important recommendations were aimed at demanding transparency in the TTIP and any other free trade agreement negotiations, involving and informing the European Parliament, national parliaments and civil society more. It also sought to require, in the context of the negotiations of a free trade agreement, including with the United States, the inclusion of binding social, health and environmental standards, with mechanisms for monitoring and sanctioning non-compliance with those standards. Finally, it sought to ensure the exclusion of public services and services of general interest from any commodification and to advocate at European level to preserve the high quality and diversity of public services and the ability of States to legislate in this field. It must be noted that, once again, none of these recommendations are included in the draft before us today. A quick overview of the text shows us that it speaks of social cohesion. Social norms are completely absent from this text. Similarly, the explanatory memorandum was conscious of the political, economic, trade union and environmental situation in those countries. This approach is in complete contradiction with the majority's government agreement, since it advocates inclusions, fundamental labour rights and social standards in this type of agreement. However, this text does not contain any serious clauses to effectively enable respect for fundamental labour rights and international environmental standards. While the references, in particular to the International Labour Organization (ILO), exist in this text, there is no effective monitoring mechanism. Even the similar agreement between these countries and the United States provides for a dispute settlement procedure to enforce workers' rights, a mechanism that the United States used in September 2014 for the first time in its history. How, then, can we understand that Europe is less demanding than the United States on crucial points, so much infringement of labour rights and trade union freedoms is strong in some of these countries and even causes many deaths? Economically, however, we very much fear that competition from Central American imports will once again lead to lower production in Europe, for example in the fruit and vegetables and electronics sectors, as illustrated by the impact assessment requested by the Commission. However, these sectors are essential sectors for our economy. On the tax side, we know that Panama is often presented as a tax haven. The risk is therefore that this agreement will lead to tax revenue losses for our country. Of course, we could go back to the risks in terms of land grabbing, ILO standards, deregulation, food speculation and public service supplies in Central America and Europe. None of these points are dealt with seriously in this agreement. Finally, as in the discussions we have already had on CETA or TTIP, we fear that this agreement will once again limit the flexibility of States to legislate both in terms of our socio-economic model and in terms of natural resource management. How far will we go? For all these reasons, but also for the total lack of transparency around this type of agreement in which parliamentarians are always faced with the fait accompli, our group will reject this text, at least as it stands. Such treaties should also be used to improve the situation in the countries concerned, which is currently not the case. We will therefore be very attentive to developments on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement we are discussing today was negotiated by the European Union and concluded in 2012. As has been pointed out, it concerns six Latin American countries. After the European Parliament and other parliaments in Europe, our Assembly is entering the ratification phase after all the political groups in our country present in other regional assemblies have already ratified it. It was, in my opinion, useful to remind him, Mr. President. Of course, it was wise to update and deepen the legal framework, which dates from 10 to 20 years depending on the subject matter. It must be noted that all well-thought-out minds are currently focused on relations with North America through the famous negotiations or non-negotiations – we do not know very well – of TTIP and the future ratification of CETA. However, it is important not to neglect the possibilities of collaboration with Central America, which continues – let us recall – to need our attention and not to lock itself in a face-to-face with Washington. The construction of a privileged political partnership with this region remains all the more relevant as we still, unfortunately, have proactive messages to convey in the areas of democracy, peace, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. We can, through various bodies, including the Geneva Human Rights Council, assess progress on these issues. Belgium, like the European Union, can and must have a critical dialogue with the six governments referred to in this agreement. It is a completely caricatural vision to think that governments are impermeable or indifferent to any criticism or bad publicity emanating from the outside. On the contrary, I believe that political dialogue is an excellent instrument for advancing a situation that needs to be improved in these regions. The Association Agreement also contains a broad trade component whose new legal framework will allow for intensification. A number of criticisms have emerged about this association agreement which, according to some, would not go far enough to put pressure on the Central American States, not far enough to defend trade union rights in those countries, not far enough to take into account small farmers. I support our Foreign Minister's approach, which I call positive because our country will be vigilant in implementing this agreement. We will use all the instruments contained therein to advance socio-economic rights and opportunities in the region. We will welcome the benefits and be critical of the dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u101	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to reply to Mrs Jadin. Mrs Jadin, like you, I listened to the Minister's statement in committee on respect for human rights and social rights. It was regrettable that he had not been able to answer the question of what the red line would be not to be crossed by these six Central American countries in the non-save of these fundamental rights. He could not tell me what kind of abuse it was necessary to commit in order for Belgium and the European Union to exercise this safeguard clause. Unfortunately, with regard to human rights in those six countries, the situation was catastrophic and would worsen further as a result of that agreement. The main problem is human rights. This is the case for Guatemala, which is the second country after Colombia, where trade unionists, environmentalists and defenders of indigenous peoples are the most repressed. They are locked up; they disappear; they are intimidated and, sometimes, some of them are killed, which has caused some resignation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u102	Dear colleague, I don't understand. You're calling me and apparently not busy making your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u103	We don't understand, but here we go! Did Mr. Reynders answer you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u104	As I mentioned in my speech, of course, progress must be made in these regions; of course, it is important to remain vigilant, but I am not convinced that the moralizing or penalizing body is, at present, the best element, not more so than your colleagues, Mr Hellings, since they have ratified and passed this text, which we are about to ratify, into regional entities. But I will let you finish your speech, which was not an inquiry to me if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u105	In concrete terms, Minister Reynders did not announce the red line to activate the safeguard clause. Therefore, this treaty has many dimensions of respect for human rights but without any binding clause for States to apply. In other words, if States do not apply these clauses, they must be punished, but Mr Reynders did not mention the rights violated that would allow the activation of this safeguard clause. That is why we remain extremely critical. As our Socialist colleague has said, there is now an agreement between these countries and the United States since 2008 and the United States, in view of the question of these trade union rights and human rights, have operated a safeguard clause procedure against Guatemala. We will now sign an agreement with the same country, Guatemala, knowing that the safeguard clauses are not being respected. Honduras, another country concerned, is the most dangerous country for journalists and peasant associations. Here too, the same question arises. Another problem is the economic model. The aim of this type of agreement is to open up markets to our European multinationals strongly, so that they can invest in them, and vice versa, so that these southern countries can import raw materials. It's about everything that comes from the mines, but also nuts, fruits, oil. These products, these raw materials, are not processed in the countries of the South and the added value for the countries of the South is minimal or no. Is this policy able to reduce inequalities? It has been in force for 30 years, but its effects in this respect in the countries of the South and at home are, agree, limited. To answer your specific question on the vote of the Brussels Parliament. It is true that, after the European Parliament, it has voted on the ratification of this agreement. My party, with the exception of two Members who abstained, voted in favour. You will see that it is still not on the agenda of the Walloon Parliament or that of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, on the initiative of our colleague Nollet, who at the time was vice-first in the Walloon government. Mrs Jadin, a mistake is excusable, but it ceases to be so when it is repeated. So we will not make the same mistake twice. In conclusion, such free trade treaties, and we will have to discuss them in the coming months, represent a way for multinationals to get what they would never get by passing a law in a parliament. Of course, the method of negotiating in the greatest opacity in small groups via experts, and then coming with a treaty to take or leave to both the European Parliament and the national parliaments and those of the federated entities, is a way of benefiting from what, democratically, no big business could get. That is why we are going to vote against this law approving the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u106	Mr President, like my colleagues, I shall speak briefly from my bench. I understand the criticisms that may come from certain groups about this association agreement, but we believe that this is a positive development. We want this association between several Central American countries and the European Union, although we regret that several mechanisms do not go as far as we would have liked - particularly in the area of human rights. I would like to recall that this agreement is a first. Indeed, this is the first time that we have signed an association treaty with six countries. Moreover, this is in the sense that we have always advocated. Mr Hellings, I cannot follow you when you say that human rights are seriously violated in all these countries. That's not true. Costa Rica was an example in that regard. That governments, despite their great political heterogeneity – Costa Rica, Social Democrat; Salvador, Marxist; Guatemala, nationalist right; Honduras, conservative right; Nicaragua, Social Democrat; Panama, populist – have wished, together, to establish this association with Europe, it must be stressed – even if we can of course make several comments in this regard. This agreement is not only trade and free trade. It is also a political dialogue agreement, on a whole series of fundamental and varied subjects that are of great interest to us: weapons of mass destruction, governance, rights, freedoms, social norms, etc.... This seems to me to be going rather in the right direction, precisely in relation to the problems rightly mentioned, particularly with regard to human rights, in some of these countries, and certainly not in all these countries. I heard you in committee calling them "Banana republics." I have to tell you that it shocked me. To treat six countries, together, as banana republics, seems to me to be at least a damaging attitude. This is not in line with my vision of relations and respect for third countries. Their ambassadors will read our reports and report this to their governments and parliaments. I think they deserve a little more respect than being treated, as a whole, as banana republics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u107	Mr Dallemagne, you will read the report again. Of course, I did not treat these six states as banana republics. I made a historical introduction that recalled where the word "Banana Republic" came from. What did I say in committee? A banana republic is a state that was under pressure from the United States, phagocytized to establish a regime favourable to multinational agri-food companies, in particular Chiquita. In return, these multinationals were able to export cheap agricultural products to the North, namely the United States and Europe. I recalled that concept. I did not treat these six countries as banana republics. I have explained at length, moreover, the mechanism that was at work under these treaties, that is to say, favouring multinationals, as has been the case in the past with other States in the same region. I did not treat these six countries as banana republics. I just recalled the mechanism that gives the advantage to multinationals and the disadvantage to workers' associations, indigenous peoples and peasant associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u108	Thank you for your nuance. We shall therefore go back to the report, but I will continue to comment on what you have said in committee, but that is not the point. In my opinion, the essential thing is that this is a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u109	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u110	Of course I do! There's no doubt about that. As a matter of fact, this has been taken over by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who himself was very surprised by this cooperation. Again, this is a step forward, in particular on the fact that it is an agreement with six countries with extremely different traditions and political realities. This is also a step forward because it is not only political dialogues, regional dialogues, trades, but there is no investment side and therefore there are not the elements that could have been feared, in particular, with regard to arbitral tribunals. There is no ISDS provided for in this agreement. I believe, of course, that our Foreign Minister will have to pay attention to the fact that the provisions relating to the implementation and monitoring of this agreement, the mechanisms which provide for monitoring of this agreement, are being applied. I maintain that this agreement is in the right direction. In addition, I wish to be consistent. In the previous procedure, we approved this agreement at the level of the Brussels Region, at the level of the European Parliament, for the reasons I have just mentioned. We will therefore remain consistent and vote for this text today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u111	Mr. President, I'm not a lawyer for Mr. Hellings. We do not always agree, but this time, Mr Dallemagne, I did not hear him stigmatise all the countries concerned by speaking of banana republics. And I don't think I have a selective ear. I wanted to make it clear that when Mr Jadin refers to economic development, it is clear that it may be interesting to develop the economy and trade, but let us do so in a framework, while being aware of the situation in each of these countries. Unfortunately, these agreements do not take into account the particular situation of these countries, either in terms of social norms or environmental standards that allow for fair development. This is where the problem of these texts arises. Not all of these aspects are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u112	To the attention of my distinguished colleague Mr Blanchart, I would like to quote an equally eminent author on the association agreement which is the subject of our discussion, namely Mr Rudy Demotte: "The novelty lies in the fact that the social and environmental clauses contained in the agreement are accompanied by a follow-up mechanism which allows for precise monitoring in the effective implementation of the principles by involving civil society in particular and by providing for the possibility of requesting external opinions, including that of the ILO." So he's going further than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u113	Mr President, I will give the position of the PVDA on what is being put to the vote today. We are, of course, not opposed to good relations with other countries, and that is certainly true of the countries of Latin America. However, it must be relations that bring mutual benefit to the population, which bring mutual good things in economic, democratic and ecological terms. This is not reflected in the text before us today. It is obvious, Mr President, that Belgium must develop exchanges with other countries, but this development must be harmonious, mutually respectful, allowing a positive evolution up to the various standards (democratic standard, economic standard, climate standard). Unfortunately, in this text we do not find these guarantees. Thus, of 363 articles, 275 speak only of one thing: business, trade between two continents. In other words, 75% of the text under consideration is therefore aimed at creating a wider market, which is already creating disasters in Europe. I am surprised to see that many parties realize that the European market is already pulling all the standards down. This can be seen in the construction and transportation sectors. And, as if by magic, this type of free competition would not have exactly the same implications for development between continents! For us, this resolution belongs within the same framework as the TTIP for which much has already been mobilized in the Third World Movement. Much has already been mobilised in Belgium. CETA, NAFTA and our cooperation agreement with South Korea also fit into this picture. It is noted that these treaties cost thousands of jobs. As a left-wing party, therefore, we believe that approving this treaty is not a good move. I note at the level of public services that there are multiple references, in particular to pages 14 and 15: "effective, reciprocal and progressive opening of the parties' public contracts." We therefore have the small market microcosm that is still protected from the overt competition that is now being proposed to be lifted. There is also "the promotion of free and undistorted competition". We know that free and undistorted competition is ultimately the victory of the strongest. It's the law of the jungle! I know that many right-wing parties love this law of the jungle that promotes the strongest, the best industry, the most efficient one, the one that has the best scientists and that can crush the science of the third world, the one that can flood with our products the West and that has so many products that it can flood the countries of the third world. Of course, we do not find ourselves in this type of agreement. I would like to address the right-wing parties or even the centre. Please stop arguing that some treaties and resolutions have already been voted by left-wing parties in regional assemblies. Intellectually, this is not the way to go, as it is now a substantive debate. So, settle your accounts with the former parties of the majority, but have at least the decency to debate the substance: will this type of treaty be in favour of the peoples of the Third World and the West? The PTB believes that the answer is no. Therefore, we will vote against it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u114	Mr President, I am replying in the affirmative to the question put by Mr Hedebouw. We believe that an agreement of this kind, based on well-thought-out, well-structured free trade, can be favourable to both the people of Europe and the people of Latin America. I say this often, but it is quite easy to make a speech in a Western European country by saying these are horrific, monstrous agreements for the people, etc., while depriving the people of Latin America or Africa of agreements that could help them improve their social standards, their trade union, environmental standards, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great voluntarism that we support this project. Mr Hellings had mentioned banana republics to explain banana production
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u115	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u116	Yes, I do! I was there. I was in committee, I heard it. It's even written in the report. Mr Hellings therefore began by explaining what banana production represented in these countries. Mr Hellings made an interesting remark with regard to the red wire. The question was asked in committee. What you're not saying is that the minister responded. He made a good distinction between the way the United States works, that is, with a red line system, and ours. This can be seen in the report. And those who have participated in the work know, the minister said that the European Union is planning an evaluation to determine whether the situation has improved. He stressed that our country regularly participates in the universal periodic reviews of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, precisely for all those countries. The European Union can then verify, from year to year, whether the recommendations made are being implemented and consider how to make a positive change in the situation. Of course, one can always consider that this is not right. Rather, we have the weakness to consider the opposite. Moreover, when we hear Rudy Demotte, who is a specialist in the matter, we think that there are arguments for voting in favour of this text. So, Mr. Chairman, I repeat, our group will support the bill with voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u117	With voluntarism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u118	With voluntarism!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1047/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1047/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u122	In accordance with Article 8 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities for the establishment of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint two effective members and three alternate members of the Management Board of the Centre. In accordance with Article 8 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 between the Federal Authority, the Regions and the Communities to establish an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the House of Representatives must appoint two effective members and three alternate members of the Centre's Board of Directors. Mr Serge Lipszyc (F) and Mr Paolo De Francesco (N) resigned as effective members by letter dated 22 December 2014 and by mail dated 16 February 2015. Indeed, Messrs. Serge Lipszyc (F) and Paolo De Francesco (N) submitted their resignations as effective members respectively by letter of 22 December 2014 and by e-mail of 16 February 2015. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, I propose that the alternates, Mr Louis-Léon Christians and Mr Yves Aerts, be appointed as effective members to replace Mr Serge Lipszyc and Mr Paolo De Francesco respectively. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, I propose that you appoint the superfluous members, MM. Louis-Léon Christians and Yves Aerts, as effective members to replace MM. Serge Lipszyc and Paolo De Francesco. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Next, the Chamber should appoint three new alternates: a new alternate to replace Mr Jesse Stroobants (N) who resigned on 4 May 2015 and two alternates to replace Mr Louis-Léon Christians and Mr Yves Aerts who we have just appointed as effective members. Next, the House must appoint three new alternate members: a new alternate to replace Mr. Jesse Stroobants (N) who resigned on 4 May 2015 and two alternates who will replace MM. Louis-Léon Christians and Yves Aerts, whom we have just appointed as effective members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal for the appointment of three new male alternate members. After all, the cooperation agreement stipulates that gender parity must be respected. Candidates must be delivered no later than 15 days after publication of this call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur for the appointment of three new male alternate members since the cooperation agreement requires respect for gender parity. Applications must be submitted no later than 15 days after publication of this call. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u123	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mr Veli Yüksel) on the protection of consumers against unexpected peak bills in telecommunications services, No. 772/1, to be referred to the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the bill to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises (Mr Roel Deseyn, Ms Nahima Lanjri and Mr M. Jef Van den Bergh and Veli Yüksel) on consumer protection against unexpected astronomical invoices from telecommunications services, No 772/1. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u124	At the request of Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Tim Vandenput, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee on Defence and the Chief Administrator, I propose the proposal for a resolution on the follow-up to the December 2013 European Council on the Common Security and Defence Policy, as well as to the June 2015 European Council (No. 1063/1 to refer to the Defence Commission. At the request of the Chair of the National Defence Commission and the lead author, I propose that you refer to the National Defence Commission, the motion for a resolution of Messrs. Denis Ducrame and Tim Vandenput on the follow-up to the December 2013 European Council on the Common Security and Defence Policy and the June 2015 European Council (No 1063/1). This bill was previously sent to the External Relations Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u125	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Philippe Blanchart and Mr Eric Thiébaut, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) to ensure better use of fire services in the B-Fast missions, No. 1129/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u126	- the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry) prohibiting the placing on the market of biocidal products and plant protection products containing substances of the neonicotinoid family, No. 1130/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u127	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Evita Willaert, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Kristof Calvo, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on the extension of legal instruments to combat discrimination in the labour market, No. 1132/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u128	- the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the law of 21 December 2013 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the law of 22 March 1999 on the identification procedure through DNA investigations in criminal matters, with a view to establishing a DNA database "Most persons" as regards the date of entry into force, No. 1133/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 June 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Philippe Blanchart and Eric Thiébaut, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, MM. Sebastian Pirlot and Stéphane Crusnière and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) to ensure a better involvement of fire services in the missions of B-Fast, No. 1129/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u130	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry) prohibiting the placing on the market of biocides and plant protection products containing substances of the neonicotinoid family, No. 1130/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u131	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry, MM. Jean-Marc Nollet and Kristof Calvo, Meyrem Almaci and MM. Wouter De Vriendt and Gilles Vanden Burre) on the extension of legal instruments to combat discrimination in the labour market, No 1132/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u132	- the bill (Mr. Raf Terwingen) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 21 December 2013 amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Act of 22 March 1999 on DNA Identification Procedure in Criminal Matters, with a view to establishing a DNA data bank "Persons Missing", No. 1133/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u133	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u134	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of legislative proposal No. 1133 by Mr Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u135	We will speak out on this in the usual way, sit down and stand up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u136	It would be interesting if we could explain the emergency requests each time. There's an emergency request, all right. If we can explain why, this may allow us to support this request. Can anyone explain?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u137	Mr Onkelinx, this is a proposal to postpone the entry into force of a change in the rules on DNA research following a letter from the College of Attorneys General. This has itself informed the Minister of Justice that the College is not ready in good time. A proposal has therefore been tabled to postpone its entry into force for a maximum of two years. If it can be done sooner, then there will be a decision taken by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u138	As reported, the urgency has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u139	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 1125/1. The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Bill 1125/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u140	The urgency is required to respect the timing before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u141	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u142	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 27 May 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 27 May 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 040/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and by Messrs. Luc Gustin, Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 040/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Daniel Senesael; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Luc Gustin, Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Damien Thiéry. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u143	Mr President, last week in the Committee on Health, I asked the Minister for the Environment about one of the greatest challenges of our time: rising sea levels, reducing biodiversity, and increasing natural disasters that will be more intense and frequent. If we do not act quickly, global warming will have serious consequences for present and future generations. Sustainable measures to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the impacts of climate change are therefore essential. The status quo is not an option. Action is all the more necessary as climate change exacerbates the inequalities between the North and the South and between the rich and the poor. Indeed, the most fragile populations are the first victims of the consequences of warming, even though they are the least responsible. This is therefore a fundamentally social issue at the national and international levels. It is often the most vulnerable people who suffer most from environmental degradation. It is often the least-favoured people who live in the most polluted neighbourhoods. From this point of view, environmental inequalities very often cover social inequalities. That is why it is vital that policies to limit our impact on the environment are oriented in such a way that they leave no one on the edge of the road. There will be no effective fight against global warming without the participation of as many people as possible and there will be no support for it if the environmental transition does not also strengthen everyone's social rights. In order to be part of a fair environmental transition, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation calling on the government to include at the heart of the future Paris Protocol the objective of a fair and sustainable transition to a society that emits few greenhouse gases and consumes fewer raw materials, which requires the social support of the most vulnerable and the workers and to guarantee the activity in order to make the change acceptable. As my speaking time is running out, I will stop there, but those who have had the curiosity to read this proposal will see that the objectives of sustainable development in public policies and their evaluation are therefore one of our priorities!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u144	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u145	Yes 79 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u146	These inquiries were developed in plenary session on 28 May 2015 These interviews were held at the Plenum meeting on 28 May 2015. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 041/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and MM. Raoul Hedebouw et Johan Vande Lanotte; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms Catherine Fonck and Ms Isabelle Poncelet and by Messrs. Christian Brotcorne, Georges Dallemagne, Michel de Lamotte, Francis Delperée and Benoît Dispa; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Patrick Dewael, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten et Hendrik Vuye. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 041/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Johan Vande Lanotte; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and by Mr Christian Brotcorne, Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mr Francis Delpérée and Mr Benoît Dispa; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Hendrik Vuye. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u147	Yes 79 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1041/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1041/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1047/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1047/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-04-54-plenair-ip050x.u150	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 11 June 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 11 June 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. In order to make it easier for you on your agenda, I have to tell you that the opinions of the Council of State which we asked for yesterday will not be available yet so that the drafts they deal with will not be dealt with next Thursday but only the week after. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 11 June 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 11 June 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
