ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u1	In accordance with the unanimous decision this morning, we will amend the agenda for this afternoon. We will begin with all of the issues on the agenda regarding public procurement to the law firm Clifford. In addition, it was also decided this morning that we would conduct a mini-debate. This means that even groups that have not tabled a question can intervene in this debate. We propose that each have five minutes of speaking time. Colleagues, are there any members of other groups who have not tabled a question on this subject but who wish to be part of the debate? Mr Geerts, Mr Foret. I refer to the Rules of Procedure, which state that in a mini-debate, we can only have one speaker per group in addition to those who have tabled a question. Colleagues, I will pray to Mr. Van den Bergh to chair the committee while I am asking my question. Mrs Matz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u2	Madam President, as far as the organisation of work is concerned, the committee made two requests this morning: the organisation of this debate on the one hand and, since we could not ask for it ourselves, because we had to go through the minister, the committee asked for the presence of the President of the Mobility SPF. The reason is simple: in the various press articles, the minister made it clear that it was her administration that advised her on this procedure. It therefore seemed appropriate for the President of the SPF to be present to confirm the procedure chosen. We stress this presence, which we believe is essential for the clarity of the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u3	You know that it is necessary to ask the competent minister for the administration concerned to submit the application to the administration. Minister, this morning's committee called for the presence of the President of the Mobility FPS. A staff member of your firm was present. What is your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u5	For those who have not heard, the minister has just said that the president of the Mobility FPS can be heard by the commissioners, but that today the minister will answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u6	I'd like to insist. Is this not commendable when it comes to the same issue on which the minister herself designates her administration for the board that has been given to her? It is in no way to have the pleasure of hearing an additional speaker. This seems legitimate to me so that we can hear here the two main people who have intervened in this matter. Is there material impossibility at the origin of the absence of the President of the Mobility FPS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u7	Does anyone else wish to speak on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u8	I think it is to the credit of the committee that it has decided to raise these issues and to open the committee with a topical debate. We asked unanimously. The minister will answer the questions. We will be able to come back to the matter later. We must not rush and immediately arrange the hearing of different speakers. We will decide after the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u9	I would like clarification on one point in the Rules, which is somewhat ambiguous: "With the exception of the group to which the questioner belongs, only one speaker per group can also speak." This rule of one speaker per group therefore does not apply to the group that is already speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u10	So Mrs. Matz can talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u11	Perfect. We understood the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u12	The Minister is politically responsible to Parliament. The proposal was made this morning and the Minister did not decide to convene the President of the Mobility FPS at the same time. I heard Mr.Foret and the minister say that, if necessary, after the debate, we could hold a hearing with the President of the Mobility FPS. I propose that you open the debate on this issue and then discuss the follow-up to be given. Mr. Van den Bergh will chair the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we respect the order in which the questions are submitted. I call Mrs Lalieux first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u14	Mr President, since this is a mini-debate, each group is entitled to five minutes. Minister, according to the press, your cabinet is about to dedicate between 400,000 and 600,000 euros to the payment of the fees of the law firm Clifford Chance for services performed in recent months. According to Le Vif, Clifford Chance was chosen by your firm without competition or compliance with public procurement legislation. For about a week, increasingly overwhelming information has been released daily. We ask you to give precise answers, because there are hundreds of thousands of euros in public money. This case looks more than suspicious. Parliament has the right to transparency. That is why I ask you the following questions. What is the hourly rate for services provided by the law firm Clifford Chance for the benefit of your cabinet? What are the amounts currently owed to this firm? What is the total amount of benefits that are and will be provided by the employee? How many hours did he work? How did you assess, knowing his hourly rate, the number of hours he had to work? What is the nature of his benefits? I'll remind you of the law, minister. Contracts with lawyers are subject to the Public Procurement Act and therefore to the fundamental principle of competition. The negotiated procedure requires at least two conditions. Firstly, a specification should be drawn up describing the subject-matter of the contract, which must be sent to at least three firms. Secondly, it is necessary to negotiate with respect for equality between candidates who have submitted an offer. This is the very basis of the public market. I would therefore like to know whether a specification has been drawn up by your services? If so, by whom? Has this specification been submitted to at least three firms? Finally, I would like to know whether your services have negotiated with all the applicant firms that had been interested in the market. In other words, did you compete? Do you have any evidence to prove it? In this regard, you said last Saturday in La Libre that it was your administration that advised you – that is why we asked for its presence – not to compete. Madam Minister, very solemnly, I would like to know whether you confirm the statements you made in La Libre this Saturday. Did your administration ask you not to compete to compare the prices of lawyers? This is a fundamental question in this case. Since Saturday, La Libre's website has announced further exchange of e-mails. At first, there was only one e-mail but she now announces an exchange of e-mails. For the clarity and transparency of this debate, Parliament should be aware of all the e-mails exchanged between you and your administration, especially if journalists already own all of these e-mails. Unless you tell me the opposite, these e-mails prove that your administration has asked to comply with the rules of the public procurement and not to circumvent the rules of competition. Normally, a minister and his cabinet are supposed to know the law better than anyone and respect it, even if the administration seems to tell him something else. The responsibility of a minister is not to say "it's not me, it's my administration". Minister, did you submit your file to the Finance Inspectorate prior to the launch of the procurement? It's a legal obligation when you're in excess of 31,000 euros. We are talking about 400,000 to 600,000 euros here. Have you submitted your file to the Minister of Budget or the Council of Ministers? Who has decided to initiate this procedure, yourself or a delegated official of your administration? Finally, even if this procedure seems totally illegal to me, I would like to know on what basis you have designated this firm Clifford. It's probably not on a price basis since you didn't compete. However, if that were to be the case, I would like you to explain to me how it is that it is the cheapest. Clifford is not specialized in aviation at all – I went to the website today. Nowhere is there any reference to air transport. Has Clifford ever worked with your Air Administration in the past? By whom was this law firm chosen? By you, your firm or your administration? To summarize my last three questions, I also want to relay what I have read in the press. Has there been any real competition? Was there competition or was there a case of copying between a law firm and a ministerial firm? Minister, this is a very serious and serious matter. I hope that you will make all the transparency before this parliamentary committee and give all the documentation exchanged between your administration and your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, I already asked you last Thursday, in plenary, about this matter, and you did not answer me. Since then, information, which has become increasingly disturbing and legally burdensome, has multiplied. Parliament has the right to clarity, information and transparency on this extremely worrying issue. It is imperative that this matter be fully clarified as soon as possible, since it is clear that you would have entered into an important service contract, without a call for tender or a negotiated procedure. At this stage, I would just like to understand and have, this time, answers to my questions, in the most honest and detailed way possible. Firstly, I would like to know what exact amount concerns this market in air procedures and other contentious air matters. We're talking about 500,000 euros. Is that correct? Is that an amount of this order? Could we get the exact figure for this contract? Is there a formal contract? Can we get a copy? What is its exact purpose? Then, may I ask why you did not use any form of competition? Whether it is by tender – these are very large amounts – either by negotiated procedure or with the consultation of five companies. Various possibilities were at your disposal and you did not make any call for competition. As it stands, we have no information on this. As a first step, you told us that you acted in this way on the recommendation of the President of the Mobility FPS. That's not true. Today's Free even believes that you lied to her about this case. Here I take the words of the President of the Mobility FPS in his e-mail to you on 3 November 2014: "The agreement of the Finance Inspectorate must be obtained if the market value is greater than 31 000 euros. In addition, it is necessary to prove to the Finance Inspectorate the inevitability of the expenditure. If the market value is greater than 85 000 euros, the Minister of Budget must agree." Did you get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u16	I continue: "A reasonable period of time must be respected to allow the lawyers contacted to respond. It is hard to imagine reducing this time to less than seven days." Was that your intention? This seems to be indicated through this e-mail, given the particular case. Finally, "it will be necessary at the end of the journey to obtain the agreement of the comptroller of commitments". You have consciously decided to disregard this formal, written and detailed recommendation of your administration. Are you aware that by acting in this way you are in breach of the legal provisions and in particular the Act of 24 December 1993 which does indeed provide for competition for this category of legal contracts which belongs to category B21 of service contracts? It also appears that you did not seek prior advice from the Inspector of Finance, although it is mandatory. Why didn't you? Finally, why did you not ask for the agreement of the Council of Ministers, since it is foreseen that for any contract exceeding EUR 350 000, the approval of the Council of Ministers is compulsory? On the other hand, why did you contact this law firm? In the light of the information published in the press, it is not clear at all that he has specific expertise in aeronautics. And indeed, by visiting the website of the said firm to find out what their skills are, we see that they are banks, finance, capital markets, mergers and acquisitions. This type of issue is far from being dealt with in the aviation procedure. The Mobility FPS used to address offices other than this one, systematically by negotiated procedure. Why did you choose to work with this office when he had absolutely no relevant experience a priori – and this has been confirmed in some statements from your firm to the press – with regard to air procedures? Is it true that these lawyers claimed an hourly rate of 380 euros excluding VAT, whereas in other consultations, with other firms, on identical areas, prices were half as low? Do you confirm this tariff for advice that, in this case, was not highly specialized in this area? This is, in any case, what appears in the reading of the various documents to which I have had access. These are the few questions I wanted to put to you at the start of this debate, Madam Minister. We count on you to have all the details, all the necessary information. Parliament has the right to transparency on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u17	Mr. Chair, Minister, let us recall the context of these studies. Several times in this committee, and in particular on 1 April last, I asked you about the need to commission studies in order to object to the problem of noise pollution around Brussels and on Brussels. At the time, you told me that resources had been released during the budget conclave to enable you, I quote, to "order studies according to their usefulness". The studies I was asking you at the time focused on historical studies of road use, population density studies, for example, or benchmarking best practices at airports comparable to those at Brussels-National. I did not think that the majority of the budget would be devoted to legal studies. Meanwhile, the weekly Le Vif L'Express revealed that an envelope of 1 to 1.5 million has actually been formally allocated to DGTA for carrying out studies, appeals to experts, dispute resolution etc. Your spokesman – not yourself, it is true – replied to the Vif: "These studies have been carried out, are in progress or are going to be done". We also learn that your firm has appointed, visibly without tender or negotiated procedure, a law firm, the firm Clifford Chance, to draft the Vliegwet project – which is very surprising – and advise you on state aid to airlines. It would appear that they work at an exorbitant hourly rate of 385 euros, well above the usual standard of the firms who usually work for the Mobility FPS and in particular for the DGTA. This firm's bill would already amount to almost 600,000 euros. If this firm were in charge of drafting the Vliegwet, I would be very surprised because I have three versions of the Vliegwet that have been worked on over the last ten years, under the ministers Landuyt, Schouppe and Wathelet. It is therefore surprising that you need new legal advice to draft it. It would appear that you have a problem with the state aid granted by the Belgian State to airlines flying from Brussels-National, and in particular a dispute with Ryanair. If that is why Clifford Chance was consulted, it would be a good idea to clarify that. At the same time, Le Vif L'Express published a letter addressed to you by CGSP. The union strongly criticizes your attitude towards DGTA, not hesitating to say that it has never seen a minister who despises its administration so much and so openly! The unions accuse you, among other things, of having entrusted the firm Clifford Chance with a task that could very well be carried out by the lawyers of the DGTA – who are paid by the federal government – and of having chosen this firm without a tender or negotiated procedure, even though it is not specialized in aeronautical matters. I have been the case for years; Clifford Chance has never been involved in a case related to the Brussels-National airport or the overflight of Brussels. Madam Minister, I come to my questions. What is the budget allocated in 2015 for objective and technical studies on air noise pollution around Brussels? I am not talking about the legal aspects, the litigation or the Vliegwet. What studies have been carried out, and for what amount? Which ones are still in progress? What studies will they still be ordered from, and to whom? Through what legal procedure has Clifford Chance been chosen, given its lack of experience in aeronautical matters? Why didn't you entrust this mission to the lawyers of the DGTA, who own a lot of preliminary studies and the draft legislation on the Vliegwet that you are supposed to present to us by the end of the year? What is the amount of fees charged by this firm so far? Is there still room for funding the studies you announced in April? What do you intend to answer to the CGSP mail? Finally, how do you intend to improve your relations with DGTA and the Mobility FPS in order to implement your future projects – those you have announced for a year – and of which DGTA will be the guarantor? In this capacity, Ecolo-Groen calls for the hearing of the President of the Mobility SPF, Mr Ledoux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u18	Madam Minister, I would like to make it quite clear that I am not accusing anyone at the moment. However, if I read in the mainly French-speaking media that there may be irregularities of between EUR 400 000 and EUR 600 000, I think it is my duty as a Member of Parliament to ask questions about this. It does not matter to me whether I am in the majority or in the opposition. If the irregularities prove to be true, as a Member of this House, I want someone to take responsibility for this and that this does not just remain blue-blue. Madam Secretary, I will ask questions mainly because I think this is my job. Conclusions can be drawn later. I'll come to the procedure. There is a discussion about whether or not to deviate from the public procurement procedure. I believe that this can only be done to a limited extent in the context of conciliation and arbitration. Do you and your cabinet agree? It can only be done when it comes to a limited amount. In this respect, I use the rule of the good family father. This is an important notion in deciding whether or not to make decisions. Do you and your cabinet have any knowledge of the procedure, as mentioned by Mr Dallemagne? It concerns an amount of EUR 31 000 for advice IF, EUR 85 000 for the Minister for the Budget and EUR 350 000 for the Council of Ministers. I've been a cabintard myself. There are still cabintards here, which have ever had to learn such amounts from outside and have to be very careful. Mr Dallemagne spoke of two e-mails. Can these e-mails be disclosed to this committee? I once received an opinion from the Council of State that forced us to consult three law firms for additional legal advice. Are you aware of that? When I look in my own congregation, I find that we are sometimes obliged to do so. I don't understand why this could just pass. Then I'll get to the bottom of it. Based on what competences was the Clifford Chance agency chosen? Were objective criteria used? Or does this law firm have a particular knowledge? Is it because you or your employees have already worked with them in the past and was that why that law firm was chosen? Who chose the office? What is the basis of the contract? Can the contract be submitted to the committee today, so that members know what mandate was given to the law firm, and within what limits? I refer to the amounts I read in the paper, because something is not right. Is the price of EUR 400 000 to EUR 600 000 correct? A good family father has just been mentioned, but I think, ladies and gentlemen, that no one should be convinced that such sums cannot be used in a public institution without a general consultation. Is the price of 385 euros per consultancy? If so, why, given the benchmark with other offices? Finally, I have a number of reservations about the substance of the matter. Mr Hellings has already said it. I know, Madam Secretary, you didn't get a present with this file. I'm absolutely convinced of that. However, I'm going to look at the archives. In 2007 my good friend and colleague Renaat Landuyt let his light shine over the flight law. This was followed by an opinion of the Council of State. Another member of the committee was then allowed to follow closely the dossier, in particular Mr Schouppe, and then Mr Wathelet. Once again, the Council of State has delivered an opinion which was absolutely not clear, but which I have had to understand. If I've had to figure it out, I know it exists. If twice an opinion has been given by the Council of State and if last year, at the end of the legislature, a decision has been taken to set up objective control bodies, I do not understand why the government again, as a good housekeeper, indicates a law firm which apparently has no idea of the subject to date, according to the office's website. Why is that? Finally, cooperation with the administration. There are e-mails between your cabinet chief and the chairman of the FOD. They can be made public, because it shows that there is a trust problem. That seems essential to us. Other open letters have also been sent to you, which would show that you have absolutely no confidence in the administration. I will conclude, Mr President. I think this is a very serious dossier, once again, apart from my job as a Member of the opposition. The fact that EUR 500 000 in public funds might not have been used properly calls for further explanations. I therefore call for full transparency in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the turn of events over the past few days and hours, I wonder about the role played by some in the administration. I can only regret the harmful climate around this issue. Media unpacking fuelled by cleverly orchestrated leaks is deplorable. Unfortunately, it keeps us away from the substantive debate and the debate on airport policy. This debate needs all our energy and needs quick answers. We know it's not easy, but we need confidence and energy. It is in our best interest to return to a more serene debate. I look forward, minister, to the point that you will not fail to make today. My first more general question will be about the situation and all the elements that have just been recalled by my colleagues. I would like to know the role of the administration in the use of external technical legal advice. Then, in the future, how do you intend to clarify and modernise the procedures? I believe that the legal certainty that should surround the debates on matters of vital importance to our country and the economic development of our country is worth it. Minister, I have no doubt that you will make transparency, all transparency and nothing but transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u20	Mr President, a number of colleagues have already raised these issues extensively. I would like to say very calmly to Mr Foret, who does not want to bring in the administration, that he still wonders about the role it played. It would have been easier to ask them directly. The serenity of the debates, which we call for, has not been facilitated by the replies provided in the press. La Librea referred to the role that the future European directive could play in public procurement. As this text has not yet been implemented, the contract concluded was not submitted to it. Even though it would have been, it seems to me that the draft under consideration deals with contentious issues, not with matters relating to consultations, advice, conclusions of conventions or the drafting of bills. This point needs to be clarified because we have been tried to "smoker" by arguing that all legal services are now exempt from public procurement procedures. All colleagues stressed the colossal nature of this sum of EUR 500 000. We may wonder if there are any tools in your administration or satellite bodies to advise you on this extremely important issue. I would remind you that you have burned three red lights, which is the peak for a Minister of Mobility! First of all, you have ruled out competition, whereas the law on public procurement requires it. Then you did not submit your contract to the Finance Inspectorate, although the amount of the contract imposes it on you. Finally, you did not present it to the Council of Ministers, whereas the size of the sum required you to do so. We would therefore like an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the press is releasing information on lawyers' fees. However, such information is by nature confidential and is not intended to be made public, a fortiori in a piecemeal and voluntary caricatural manner. However, to ensure full transparency and to cut any fantasies in this file, here are some encrypted data that have been transmitted to me by the Mobility FPS and are therefore in the accounts of the Mobility FPS. I will give you figures; I invite you to take notes to follow the reasoning that explains them. The Mobility FPS, and never the minister, as some would suggest, is currently working with more than forty lawyers or lawyers' offices on a variety of matters, mostly contentious, for all matters, whether they are road, air, sea or rail. In 2014 - I recall that I arrived in October 2014 - more than 890,000 euros were spent on lawyers' fees, all directions combined and just for air litigation, almost half, namely 409,986.33 euros. In 2015, a budget of EUR 1 127 000 was committed to cover the fees of lawyers from all directions, including the inflation of the dispute related to the overflight and the implementation of the 6th reform of the State. To date, there have been concrete cases for €680,000, of which more than €300,000 are linked to the only cases relating to airport activities, including overflight litigation, state aid, and global reflection on the future of the operation of Brussels airport. To date, Clifford Chance has invoiced 170 000 euros, including more than 90 000 euros only for the case relating to the infringement procedure opened by the European Commission in the case of aid to airlines. This expenditure is charged against a budget of EUR 400 000 to cover the legal consultations on the 1989 Cooperation Agreement on State aid and the reflection on noise pollution. This envelope is obviously included in the 2015 budget. On the merits, why did you choose this law firm? Clifford Chance was appointed at the very beginning of November 2014, two weeks after I took office, as part of the proceedings brought by the European Commission against Belgium following suspicions of support for certain airlines, which had to be answered by early December 2014. This international lawyer's office, known at world level, has been recognised in terms of European law, in particular in the areas of state aid, business law, public law and environmental law. Today I can only say that, given the evolution in the file, I am certainly satisfied with the quality of their work. As far as the air sector is concerned, the Belgian State has called on various lawyers to assist it in litigation, in particular the overflight case, all of which have been entrusted to the same firm for nearly two decades. For its part, the firm Clifford Chance follows the case relating to the support to the airlines and advises the Belgian State on the legal aspects of a global reflection carried out within my firm and the administration on the future of the operation of the Brussels airport. The rules on public procurement must of course also apply to legal services. In this case, the procedure negotiated without publicity can be justified because of the urgency and confidentiality necessary to deal with this type of case, and the indispensable trust relationship between the law firm and its client. This is why European legislation on public procurement has evolved and allows for this type of exception, in particular Directive 2014/24, not yet transposed into Belgian law, on public procurement, which excludes the services of lawyers in disputes and legal advice from the rules on public procurement where there is a likelihood that the issue to which counsel relates will be the subject of a dispute. However, you will agree that there is a high likelihood of litigation in any case that affects the operation of the Brussels-National airport by far or near. In any event, it is up to the administration, not the minister or his or her cabinet, to place orders and other public contracts, whatever they may be, and to take appropriate steps with the Inspectorate of Finance, if necessary, even if these orders are made at the request of the minister or his or her cabinet. The firm Clifford Chance was therefore appointed following the approach proposed by my administration to which my firm had sent a draft terms of reference for a negotiated procedure accompanied by a non-limitative list of three firms to be consulted, although the SPF had previously told us that such a consultation was not necessary. This approach consisted of the communication of a tariff offer by Clifford Chance. This offer was communicated to the CPS for comparison with the rates normally applied by the lawyers it consults on similar matters and for validation. This comparative approach seems, moreover, to be usually used – and for a long time – by the Mobility FPS for the designation of the lawyers it appoints, particularly for litigation cases. If such a procedure does not comply with the requirements of the public procurement law of legal services, then I will ensure that the law is strictly respected. At noon, I met with the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate, who I asked to conduct an urgent investigation into all legal markets in my administration. Therefore, in order to avoid confusion and to remove any controversy, I will analyse the possibility of having an independent consultant evaluate, in full transparency, not only the situation of public procurement of legal services within the Mobility FPS, but also that of all contracts awarded there. Depending on the outcome of this analysis, I will ensure that corrections are made on a case-by-case basis and that clear rules and procedures are published, both in my office and in my administration, in order to put an end to all controversy and avoid any further errors. In this way, my firm and my administration will be able to continue their work in a peaceful and secure manner. Secondly, I do not wish to conceal my feeling that the letter from the CGSP is intimately linked to the disclosures in the press of information relating to the services of lawyers about which I have just replied. You will not be able to take away from me that these attacks have the sole aim of diverting me from the finalisation of structural measures in a highly sensitive and emotional dossier. With regard to this letter, I identify four main points of attention that I would like to share with you. The first relates to the contempt and discredit that I would bring to the staff of the CPS, in particular that of the DGTA. It's nothing, absolutely nothing. My firm and I have excellent relationships with all FPS staff based on respect and listening. The collaboration between my firm and the various DGs is proceeding in a harmonious manner. Regular meetings are held for the management of specific files, or even more broadly, for the strategy to be developed in the future. In the course of these meetings, each person expresses his or her views and arguments. These meetings are rich in exchanges. The quality of the people was never called into question. While it is true that all files follow this process of collaboration, there is one that has been the subject of work so far confined within my firm: the search for structural measures related to airport activities. This issue is sensitive and deserves special attention. However, this does not prevent the DGTA from consulting on any aspect. In fact, this was the case with the flight procedures law in preparation. The previous firm did not proceed differently. The second point concerns the establishment of an independent noise control authority. The union seems to ignore the government agreement which states that "in consultation with the Regions, the government will also ensure the creation of an independent noise control authority around the Brussels-National airport created at the departure of the DGTA". I'm working exactly that way. I would also point out that the creation of this authority is also an obligation imposed under the European Regulation which enters into force on 13 June 2016. The third point concerns the Clifford file, if we can call it that way. I refer to the answers I have given earlier. The fourth aspect concerns communityism and my alleged desire not to have a presence of Brusselslis in the team that manages the overflight file. I compose my firm based on the expertise of the people who advise me. I do not exclude anyone from the CPS in the files that fall within my jurisdiction. This shared expertise is also positive. However, there is a point to which I attach great importance and which is an integral part of the code of ethics of public servants: the impartiality of public servants and the attention given to possible conflicts of interest. In this context, I hoped that a particular person would no longer be involved in the overflight file. That was explained to him orally. It is also true that the case concerning airport activities does not concern only Brussels. I have already expressed this and I am saying it again today: the structural solutions concern both the Brussels, but also the Flemish Brabant and the Walloon Brabant, not to mention the Oostrand. The final point concerns the internal organization of the CPS. I recall that I am not responsible for the day-to-day management of my administration. A steering committee, headed by the President, is responsible for this. There are also places and bodies for trade union consultation in which I do not participate. However, I remain attentive to trade union organisations in a respectful manner when they wish to do so. I also asked the President of the SPF this morning to give me an update on this social consultation within his SPF. I hope to receive it as soon as possible. With regard to the budget for studies on the overview, an overall budget of EUR 3 million was allocated to the SPF; EUR 400 000 was specifically dedicated to legal aspects for various dossiers, the balance being available for specific studies. These studies will be carried out as part of the structural measures. With regard to the articles that appeared this afternoon, I would add that every week my chief of staff or my teams meet with the president of the administration. I personally participate or a representative of my firm on the Board of Directors which takes place every week. The President of the FPS was evaluated in July. The evaluation was not the most positive. There were things to improve. Since that evaluation, a schedule of operational interviews has been established. To say that I called to order this morning the president of my administration is a little strong. On October 2, following a first operational interview, I proposed four meetings so that we could see each other on a regular basis, in order to improve our relationships. I had proposed the dates of 16 October, 30 October, 13 November and 27 November. The first two dates were not appropriate and I had not received a proposal for improvement as to which points were to be improved. I have therefore fixed a new operating interview for this day, the invitation of which was sent on 16 October. It has absolutely nothing to do with this whole story. It was important to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u22	Colleagues, for the replicas, it is given two minutes per person per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u23	Madam Minister, "it's not me, it's the other," the other being your administration. As usual, suspicion is rejected on others. What are your arguments? The urgency to appoint a lawyer, a competitive and negotiating process, three days and it's done! With respect to the confidentiality argument, I would like to point out that lawyers and all firms are bound by confidentiality. So these are arguments that must be rejected. You're flooding us with numbers to drown the fish. You will certainly give them to me! But I didn't get any answers to my questions. The Inspection des Finances (IF) is a rule of law for you, too. IF would have told you immediately where you had to compete, which you didn't do because you didn't even answer us. You shamefully accuse your administration. We asked you for all the emails exchanged. I solemnly ask you here, Madam Minister. Indeed, not going to the IF means that you have spent hundreds of thousands of euros in a totally illegal way and the directive, as you well know, does not apply in this case. You and Mr. Foret are laying serious charges against your administration. Now you're going to do a big audit, but it's up to you to ensure that you compete, and it's up to you to ensure that this is done properly. I remind you that you have a political responsibility over your administration. You are the boss and you like to keep reminding him in our commission. When a boss, like at VW, was caught after a scam, it was he who assumed his responsibilities and not an ordinary engineer. Once again, Madam Minister, I ask you before this committee for transparency. Who asked Clifford, minister? You didn't answer us. I also ask that this committee shed full light on this issue and ask for all the e-mails and to hear from the President of the Mobility FPS. I'm asking you a simple question: who named Clifford? The administration or your firm? And who offered it? Mr President, I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u24	I move that we go around the members before we speak to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u25	Mr. Speaker, the minister was trying to impress us with her figures, but in reality she did not answer our questions. The figures she put forward had nothing to do with the debate. I asked him simple questions and I had very few answers. I first asked him if there was a contract with Clifford Chance, I didn't get an answer. If so, who signed this contract? You or your administration? You didn't answer. For what amount? You quoted a lot of numbers, but I was just asking you that one. You didn't answer. On the subject of the contract, you gave us some guidance. It's interesting because you talked about legal advice. So we're not in litigation at all, we're in legal counsel. There's a litigious part, but you could have put it in another file. Even the future European directive, which in this case does not apply, will not concern this legal advice. You cannot therefore invoke this European directive for this part of the file. Have you applied for permission from the Finance Inspectorate? You didn't answer. Have you asked the Council of Ministers for its approval? You didn't answer. Did you ask the Minister of Budget for his approval? You didn't answer. You get rid of your administration for a consulting office that you designate yourself and for which you say you have nothing to do with how this office will be designated. This is absolutely unacceptable! I've never heard a minister answer like that! Madam Minister, frankly, I ask you for answers to these simple questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u26	Madam Minister, there is a real problem of trust between your administration and your office at a crucial moment, that of finalizing your overall plan for the overflight of Brussels. You said you chose Clifford Chance for two reasons: for the need to have a relationship of trust and confidentiality. It must be noted that in your relationship with the Mobility FPS, you have no relationship of trust or confidentiality, if I see the number of emails that have been made public in recent hours. You said that Clifford Chance was chosen on the basis of the legal support to be provided in the State aid dispute. You continued by saying that this State aid dispute is part of the same envelope as legal support in the development of structural solutions related to the future of the operation of Brussels Airport. It's not the same thing! That you choose Clifford Chance for his skills in litigation and the fact that today Ryanair attacks you is one thing; but the structural solutions for the overflight of Brussels is quite another! This has nothing to do with it! This should have been the subject of a completely separate contract. Today, there is expertise in Brussels overflight and structural solutions, and it is within the DGTA. That's why I understand that the FPS is getting involved. That's where you have to go for these skills, but you chose Clifford Chance because you had the confidentiality and the relationship of trust, which I encourage you to find with your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are talking here about the exceptions to le marché public and you are referring to the exception rules in the context of public procurement in your legislation. I'm afraid the law firm you gave me this advice is mistaken. In fact, urgency, confidentiality and litigants do not give a clear lead to the amounts which I mentioned earlier in which degrees an opinion should be requested from the IF, from the Minister for the Budget and from the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I asked to see the contract with Clifford Chance. I asked who signed that contract and I repeat that question. Madam Secretary, then you say that according to your administration you could do this. However, I read in the press that your administration has sent a second e-mail to say that this could not be done. I would like to look at those two e-mails, and I would also ask you not to refer unilaterally to one e-mail, while there are two. You also say that you have asked the Treasury Inspectorate about all consultants for the FOD. You're welcome to do that as a competent minister. Although you say you have a very good relationship with your administration, today we find that emails are being sent to the chairman of the FPS under your office chief, which clearly states that there is actually some kind of resistance to your policy in the administration. So I would also like to have access to those e-mails. The question arises as to what else we can expect. Mr President, I absolutely want to see the agreement with Clifford Chance. I want to know who signed that, what amounts have been agreed and what the content of this contract is. We were just talking about transparency. Well, this would promote transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u28	Minister, you played cards on the table, no matter what the opposition says. Mrs. Lalieux can smile, as usual... You mentioned the way in which the procedure was applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u30	[[...]] Minister, you have described the – sometimes worrying – role played by each other. I think the hours and days ahead will show what it's going on. I am interested in this as a policy concerned with making substantive progress. You also talked about the opportunity to use the firm and why you did it. Most importantly, these are the commitments you have made and the responsibility you have taken by asking the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate to shed all the light, and nothing but light, on events, procedures and their application. You also stressed the need to make them clearer in order to strengthen legal certainty, which is of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u31	Madam Minister, excuse me, but this masquerade has lasted long enough. All the answers you've provided have charged the administration. The e-mails that were solicited by the colleagues were not provided. Here they are! They all show that your firm named Clifford. Next, we find that there are not 48 hours between the time we wonder how many firms we need to consult and the decision-making process. The next day, Clifford is appointed by your firm! In these e-mails, which I would like to make available to my colleagues, there is also evidence that it was your firm that negotiated Clifford's fees according to two proposed formulas. Therefore, what has been said here is not the truth. In addition, an e-mail from your administration, which has already been published and which my colleague Dallemagne mentioned, recommends the procedure to be followed: the compulsory consultation of the Finance Inspectorate above EUR 31 000, the passage to the Council of Ministers, etc. So all of these e-mails, which I submit to the secretariat of the committee, show that all the answers that have been provided to us do not reflect the truth. You say you are making commitments for the future in terms of transparency, but I wonder if the committee still has to believe you in this. That is why it was important for your administration to be present. An article has just been published online with a response from your administration, in which a significant part of these emails are published. They are at the disposal of the Commissioners because I think we're paying for our heads a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u32	Colleagues, I am concerned about the fact that a political party has the exchanges between a cabinet and the administration. It's a matter of concern to a public servant's ethics. The Royal Decree on State aid began under the former government and everything was entrusted to the Stibbe cabinet without any contract. In this regard, there has never been any question. I would like to remind you and read out the e-mails at your disposal. On 3 November 2014 at 4:05 p.m., my legal department sends a draft terms of reference to the president of my administration: "As a result of our discussions, it seems to me that we can consult the following three firms: Stibbe, Clifford, Philippe & Partners. They should be informed in the preamble of the purpose of their mission, namely: 1. Reply by 3 December 2014 to the questions posed by the Commission to the Belgian State. 2. To assist the Belgian State in a strategic reflection on State aid. The criteria would be: 1. The recognised and proven experience in European State aid law, especially State aid to airports and airlines. 2. Knowledge of European circles and useful contacts with the Commission services to be justified in an explanatory note, the first point for 50 points, the second point for 30 points 3. Fees to be divided into two sub-offers: - a flat-rate offer covering the drafting of the reply to the Commission (10 points); - an offer on the basis of a detailed hourly rate covering the assistance of the Belgian State in its strategic reflection for 20 points. It's not exactly the distribution we talked about earlier, but it's on the way, I think. I am, of course, listening to the views of your services, which are certainly better suited to markets of this type than I am. How should we proceed? You write the call for tenders and consult the Finance Inspectorate and others. Read you." At 5:31 p.m., the president of the administration sent an e-mail saying: "If the response to the Commission is included in the tender, the Stibbe office will be excluded. If they are not retained, since they are already working on it, they propose that this aspect of the offer be removed." My legal service tells him that the idea is that Stibbe should remain in charge of representing the federal state in the commercial court and that the maps should be discussed with regard to the response to the Commission and the strategic reflection; these two things go hand in hand, the second being in continuity or remediation, as we wish, of the first. On November 3, at 5:36 p.m., the president of the administration sent an e-mail saying: "Concerning the call for tenders, it is necessary to agree with the Finance Inspectorate, which must be obtained if the value of the contract is greater than 31 000 euros and that in addition, it is necessary to prove to the Finance Inspectorate the inevitability of the expenditure. If the value of the contract is greater than 85 000 euros, the Minister of Budget must agree. A reasonable period of time must be allowed to allow the lawyers contacted to respond. It is difficult to imagine reducing to less than seven days, given the case of the species. Finally, it will be necessary, at the end of the journey, to obtain the agreement of the comptroller of commitments". My legal department replied that, in his view, the public market would far exceed 32 000 euros but that he did not know at all whether it could exceed 85 000 euros. He asks him how they are used to doing this kind of stock market when we don't know in advance how much the bill will be. On 3 November at 6:40 p.m., the President of the Administration replied: "After discussion with my lawyers, it seems that including the Commission's response in the tender raises a problem of equality because Stibbe could apply for a market where part of it is already managed by itself, which puts it in a privileged position. Or you have to exclude them, but it's not ideal either. For the Finance Inspectorate, it is more than likely that its agreement will have to be reached by demonstrating the absolute need for the mission following the new government circulars. Given the stakes, this should be possible but never guaranteed with the Finance Inspectorate. Question budget, we are already far beyond our legal budget as a result of the expenditure due to the Wathelet plan, but that, we are dealing with it, I will see how to measure the budget."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u33	On November 4, 2014, at 10:10 a.m., my legal department wrote to the president of the administration asking if the CPS should take a formal approach to lawyers. After discussions in the firm, it was decided that Stibbe would continue to follow up legal proceedings and, together with the firm and the SPF, would draft the response to the European Commission. Clifford Chance would reflect on the government's future strategy for measures towards the airport sector. Of course, this reflection will feed and feed that of Stibbe from a global perspective. My legal department asks what formal steps the SPF must take. Then the administration investigates the file. We make all the e-mails available to you. You can have them. But it is not normal that emails exchanged between an administration and its minister can be found in the press. A code of ethics must be respected by all public servants, even by the president of the administration!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u34	Madam Secretary, I suggest that the e-mails are copied and distributed. The last word is for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u35	However, the minister answered one of my questions. It was you who chose the firm Clifford and decided not to go to the IF who would have told you that your choice was totally illegal. It's a first thing. We also have proof of a second thing, since you told us. You paid 170,000 euros in total illegality. This exceeds 85,000 euros. You said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u36	It's not me, it's the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u37	I didn't interrupt you. Political responsibility is in the head of the minister. If we don't take political responsibility, we're not a minister. That's it! At some point, it's too easy to say that you're going to "enlighten what's going on in the administration" when you've had all the email exchanges and the administration, i.e. the IF, had requested a procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u38	Under the old government, you didn't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u39	The minister cut me off. I would just like to remind him that political responsibility exists. I'm calming down. This is the first time I've raised my voice. I find that accusing the administration without any political responsibility, that is, "it's not me, it's the other". We're not in kindergarten. The minister likes the audits. I ask the Court of Auditors to open an inquiry into these matters. That Parliament convene a committee and invite the President of the Mobility FPS. That the Prime Minister comment on the reality of the procedures opened by Ms. Galant, on her compliance with the procedures established by her own government, i.e. the IF, the Minister of Budget and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u40	Madam Minister, I note that you are in charge of the administration, and yet, at the outset of this debate, you said that the minister would respond. It is the minister who assumes political responsibility. That is what you yourself wanted, when we wanted to hear the administration. You keep charging her, without allowing her to come here to parliament. This does not seem acceptable to me. We note that you assume full political responsibility for this matter. You have still not answered my questions: is there a contract, for what amount, has there been a call for tenders, has the Inspector of Finance been consulted? For each of you, you've been defeated. I believe that Parliament must take up this extremely worrying issue. It concerns the way in which files are managed by your firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u42	We're reviewing your file. You always get rid of Peter, Paul and James! I ask you whether you do not believe that there have been illegal procedures which you yourself have endorsed and which you have even assumed politically. That is the issue we are concerned about today, Mrs Galant!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u43	Madam President, I note the energy of the CDH to forget the Wathelet plan in the most extraordinary way and I will be happy to hear Mr Ledoux talk about these Stibbe contracts. Minister, on the merits, there is the litigation for which you chose Clifford Chance. But you never said if Clifford Chance was also in charge of legal follow-up for the overall plan. The fact that Clifford Chance won a deal on litigation is one thing, but Clifford Chance does not have to deal with the overall Brussels overflight plan. On the form, no matter what happens, after Mr Ledoux's hearing, that it appears that the fault lies with the administration or is yours, in all cases you are the political leader and you will have to assume it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u44	Madam Minister, I will not go back to my previous conclusion, but when I hear your reading of the various e-mails, I find the following: having responsibility also means being accountable. I therefore ask that all these e-mails be made available to the committee without any specific reading. Ladies and gentlemen, having listened to everything today, I believe that the procedure followed is still not correct. Madam President, like Mrs Lalieux, I am suggesting the following. It would be useful if this committee were to examine how we are doing this, on the basis of its powers, to address the Court of Auditors with a request to clarify this matter further, also because we, as a controlling authority, do not have direct access to the documents of the administration. That is why it is useful that the Court of Auditors should also be taken into account to clarify matters, particularly as regards procedures, because I believe that there is still some doubt about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all the e-mails are at your disposal. These are exchanges between my firm and the president of the administration in which names are mentioned. I therefore ask, out of respect for the officials concerned, that their names not be disclosed in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u46	Madam Chair, I would like once again to draw attention to the fact that the minister has taken on her responsibilities. Minister, I am pleased that there has been some clarification about the commitments you have made in all these procedures. Having said that, I have just read a letter in the press from an official in charge of the administration. I'm shocked by this unpacking. However, this is a debate that requires a climate of confidence and serenity. I am therefore pleased, Madam Minister, with the comments you made at the beginning of your speech. I think all this goes too far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u47	Madam Chair, Minister, what happened is serious. After saying that the President of the SPF would be heard the day after tomorrow, you have, so to speak, invited us to move on to another agenda item. I repeat that I believe, for my part, that what is happening is serious. You could have made the documents available earlier, as you had already been asked to do in an insistent manner. But it took them to be made public before you finally decided to communicate them to us. Having said that, I regret the procedure followed. I also regret that all the answers you have provided are in contradiction with the e-mails exchanged between your firm and the administration. This is a very serious fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u48	Before continuing the oral questions, we will suspend the meeting for a few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no settlement of the work on the agenda. It will take place at a next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u49	Madam President, Minister, the 2014 annual report of the rail passenger mediation service reveals a problem that I believe deserves your attention. The example concerns a child with reduced mobility under 12 years of age. Recognized autistic, this child benefits from a "free accompanying card", which allows the accompanying person to travel free of charge. At the same time, as a child under 12 years of age, he has, in principle, the right to travel "free of charge without a transport document if he accompanies a person 12 years of age or older, with a transport document of the range of domestic service valid on the Belgian network". It is not stated anywhere that the "free accompanying card" and the free card it grants to the accompanying person in question is excluded from this regulation. In view of this confusion, the free allowance granted to a child under the age of 12 would not be taken into account in this case, since the accompanying adult is entitled to the non-payment of his or her transport document (on the basis of the free accompanying card) and the child should be in possession of a transport document. Thus, de facto, there is unequal treatment between valid and invalid children under 12 years of age. The mediation service intervened with the SNCB calling for the application of Article 9, § 2 of the conditions of carriage. It would seem, however, that SNCB is camping on its position. Minister, could you look at this issue and try to come up with a common sense solution so that in the future, less valid children can be treated like any of their peers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u50	Madam President, as of December 1, 2015, SNCB will adapt its regulations to provide free second-class tuition for children with a free accompanying card. The traveller over 12 years of age who will accompany this child (under 12 years of age) will travel free of charge for the benefit of the free accompanying card.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u51	For both: the child and the attendant? All right. That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u52	The 2014 report of the rail passenger mediation service reveals that 41.7% of complaints relate to tickets, which is, to say the least, challenging. I will not go back to the objection in principle that I might make concerning the gradual replacement of sales counters at stations in favour of these sales machines (TVMs). We know that these new methods of payment increase inequalities between citizens. Persons with disabilities, illiterates or those without a bank card are very clearly disadvantaged. On reading the Ombudsman's report, it appears that this creates tensions with railway staff and creates a large number of dissatisfaction and complaints. Here I would like to point out some concrete elements in the report: - the non-uniformisation of payment methods (the user can pay by credit card, sometimes with money up to a certain amount, but not with notes), - the fact that not all products are offered for sale by automata and that it is still difficult to find the most advantageous formula for yourself, - payment problems which do not lead to the printing of any transport document, - and the fact that the attendant is not always informed in real time when the automatons are defective and that he has to impose a fine which the user will later have to challenge... I doubt that such malfunctions and the resulting complaints are likely to improve the quality of the service and the customer's satisfaction and to render their letters of nobility to railway workers. What can you answer to users who encounter these difficulties? What concrete solutions could be provided to users and railway operators to meet the demands of the former?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u53	Madam President, we have already discussed the subject many times in the Committee on Infrastructure. In summary, I would like to remind you of the following. Automates allow payment by credit card (debit or credit) and currency (maximum amount of 35 euros). Tickets are not accepted for obvious security reasons. The vast majority of products are available to automatons (i.e. 95% of products available at counters). The most advantageous products of the moment are presented to the customer in the first screen (diffusion of promotions) and picked up in quick choice. On weekends, the weekend ticket is always offered as a replacement for a standard round-trip ticket. The customer has the possibility to contact SNCB Customer Service (number on each controller) in order to: - report a technical problem encountered with the automaton; - to ask for advice in relation to the choice of the product most interesting to him; - to be assisted in the use of the automaton. Customer service can take control of the controller. The only actions required at this time for the customer are the payment (introduction of his card + code or introduction of the currency into the currency) and the recovery of his transport document. The non-issue of a ticket by an automaton is exceptional. At the station, in the vast majority of cases, the customer can be reimbursed directly at the counter. In the absence of an open window, he may lodge a complaint with the customer service. In 2015, the total number of claims received with claim for reimbursement is only 0.018 per cent of the total number of sales. The system used by the attendants is currently informed of the operating status of the controllers on the basis of an image taken the previous day. SNCB is currently working on a system that will allow for more efficient and faster synchronization approaching "real time".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u54	Minister, we understand that on the one hand, there is a person in front of you who thinks that there is a need to give priority to windows and direct customer service with real people. On the other hand, I hear you defending the machines that show their limits. I do not understand why, for security reasons, we cannot use the tickets in these machines.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u56	Yeah, but with the rooms, too. I don't see how that changes. I do not hear a concrete answer to the problems raised. You're quoting numbers. I remind you of the one I cited: 41.7% of the complaints received relate to transport tickets in 2014. This is a very high percentage. I don't feel like you want to solve these difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u57	Madam President, I assume Mrs Fonck will not come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u59	So, his question falls. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u60	You're still interested in Lobbes station. I do recognize Mr Devin. Minister, the Lobbes railway station is located on line 130A from Charleroi to Erquelinnes. I'll come back to that at another time because this line has a few small problems. Previously, the Lobbes station was equipped with an underground crossing allowing trains to access the station's three tracks. This subterranean was monitored by the station chief who was monitoring the passage of trains to stop on the two docks of the station. Today, for lack of means, the underground passage has been closed and all trains passing through Lobbes station are forced to stop on the same track, track 3. Due to the closure of this passage, the many freight trains – some of them passing through them – and trains carrying passengers, passing on line 130A, are victims of certain traffic and slowing down. In addition, there is a bad switch and signaling, especially in the direction of Erquelinnes-Charleroi, forcing trains not to exceed 20 kilometres per hour when they are about to arrive at Lobbes station. Minister, are you aware of these inconveniences at Lobbes station? If not, as a result of these findings, could you arrange to improve the situation? The gradual withdrawal of switches on this section of the line shows a desire to save money. Is this a condemnation of this line over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u61	Madam President, at Lobbes station, which is an unguarded stopping point, there is no under-lane corridor but a level crossing. On weekdays, from 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. – during the service to Lobbes station – the crossing is monitored by Infrabel agents. On weekends, all trains pass track 3 without affecting the punctuality of the trains in order to relieve Infrabel surveillance. With regard to the 20 km/h in the direction Erquelinnes towards Lobbes, this situation is normal and has existed for a long time. It is due to the installation geometry of the access switch to switch from track B to track 3. So there is no technical anomaly. There have been no major track referrals in this section in recent years. Only lanes and switches were deposited in Lobbes by-lane. At this stage, there are no plans to close this line. Passenger safety is fully ensured at the Lobbes train station on weekends as all trains operate exclusively via track 3. Lobbes' lanes 1 and 2 are therefore completely out of service during the length of passenger train traffic on weekends and, as a result, passengers automatically use the level crossing safely. The choice of track 3 also ensures the regularity of passenger trains and the safety of passengers both at the Lobbes station and at other installations on line 130A. In fact, at the start of track 3, passenger trains can continue their normal-track traffic to Thuin, eliminating a potential danger of crossing the tracks in this facility upon arrival on the other wharf of trains stopping there. In the longer term, the construction of a track corridor should allow the crossing to be completely eliminated so that it is no longer required to be monitored by staff on a weekly basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u62	So, minister, we have an underground passage that existed. It was therefore closed. There is a reduction in the passage which therefore results in a reduction in the lock-up of trains. You are announcing in the longer term the reopening of the underground passageway. Do you have any details on the longer term? Is it 15 years old, 20 years old or never?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u64	I will therefore file a written question as it is asked so kindly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, significant efforts have been made under the previous legislature to ensure that the salaries of the directors of the public companies of which you are today the appropriate minister, being Belgocontrol, Infrabel and SNCB, take the path of moderation. The previous government had thus established a series of benchmarks to frame these remunerations, in particular by limiting both the fixed and variable share of remuneration, limiting severance benefits or integrating certain KPIs into the assessment of the managers concerned. Knowing the importance you attach to the ethics and strict use of public funds, we are therefore convinced that you will be committed to continuing the momentum in the area of remuneration supervision with regard to the members of the Management Committee, while respecting the autonomy of the autonomous public undertakings concerned. Can you confirm to me that the beacons put in place by the previous government to limit both the fixed part and the variable part of the remuneration of the CEOs and members of the management committee are still relevant in the various autonomous public enterprises under your control? And what are your intentions for the future in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question. The government agreement is clear: "Public companies and public limited liability companies must be examples of good governance and offer quality services at competitive prices for all citizens, businesses, associations and public authorities". In this context, the decisions taken under the former legislature, such as the cap on the salaries of top managers of public companies and respect for the gentleman agreement, remain the course of action to be followed today. With regard to the salaries of top managers, the government calls for the top managers of the various public companies to show the greatest sobriety. Moreover, the vast majority of top managers are already designated. The question therefore does not arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u67	I understand from the minister that no changes will be made in the future, especially since no replacement is expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u68	Madam President, Minister, it has now been ten years since Zone 30 was set up in the vicinity of schools. The IBSR carried out a review of the effectiveness of these zones 30. Between 2010 and 2012, 7,048 children aged 3 to 11 years were involved in a road accident with physical injury in Belgium. The IBSR makes an alarming observation: 40% of these accidents take place on the way to school. Of these 2,991 accidents, only 5 per cent were recorded in zones 30. However, the results are mixed, as as soon as we move a little further away, it was found that 75 per cent of the children injured between 2010 and 2012 were in an area between zone 30 and 300 metres around the school. The IBSR estimates that there would be a decrease in user vigilance despite a still massive presence of children within 300 metres around the school. In addition, the study also found that 91% of drivers do not meet speed limits in areas 30 near schools. Minister, on the other hand, do you intend to put in place new measures to ensure the safety of children in the vicinity of schools? If so, which ones? Are the expanded 30 zones part of your projects? If so, can you tell us more about this project? What initiative does the federal government intend to take to further enforce the 30 km/h limit in the vicinity of schools?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u69	Mr Devin, as Federal Minister for Mobility, I believe it is essential that the surroundings of schools are places where the safety of all users, especially children, is guaranteed. Both the delimitation of these zones 30 and the control of the speed limits of these zones are, however, the exclusive competence of the Regions. For my part, I believe that extensive controls on the use of seat belts and child safety devices remain a priority, as well as awareness-raising. I also believe that the development of new technologies such as automatic speed adjustment (ISA) and driving support systems are topics on which my administration is working, as I have already had the opportunity to explain. For the rest, these points fall within the purview of other bodies. However, I am committed to making the Regions aware of the findings of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u71	Following the attack in the Thalys between Amsterdam and Paris, you went to Paris to attend a meeting with ministers from several European Union countries with which France has cross-border rail links, including Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. According to our information, the objectives of the meeting were to discuss "very concrete measures" and to establish collaboration between the various countries concerned in order to strengthen the fight against terrorism in railway stations. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Mr Cazeneuve explained that concrete measures would be discussed, what was this about? What did you discuss? What did he decide at the end of the meeting? What are the collaborations that will be established between the different countries? What are the deadlines for these collaborations? What federal services are associated in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u72	(...) a week after the attempted attack in Thalys. There's no need to remind you that we've come close to horror. The chance to have the U.S. military in the same car is a miracle. The meeting brought together Interior Ministers and Transport Ministers from nine European countries, the two Commissioners responsible for these matters within Europe and Gilles de Kerchove, European Coordinator for the fight against terrorism. This meeting provided an opportunity to take stock of the actions taken at the Belgian, French and Dutch railway stations following the attempted attack in Thalys, to know the points of convergence on the actions that should be developed in the medium and long term, and to exchange good practices and experiences from neighbouring countries. A number of points raised inevitably concern internal matters which are within the competence of my colleague Jan Jambon. I invite you to ask him about this. However, these safety issues are not without impact on my subjects. I would like to put in place checks of luggage and people at the stations, initially for the Thalys, which is now completely accessible, unlike the Eurostar. Of course, the characteristics of the railways (accessible open spaces) distinguish them from the airport. That is not why we must not improve things. In this spirit, I wanted to go to Madrid to find out on the spot how the checks of luggage and people on the high-speed lines across the country were taking place. The system in place makes everything very effective: between arrival at the check and your climb on the train, it takes up to ten minutes in times of good traffic. They also have portals to control that you are in possession of a ticket to get on a suburban train. This system is similar to the subway. Today, there are technologies to detect certain metals, including weapons during a portico passage. I asked for an examination of the feasibility of such a procedure for our stations. Since September, access to SNCB images by the railway police has been finalized and definitively implemented. In addition, joint Belgian and French railway police patrols have been strengthened. I also met with the CEO of Thalys to discuss the collaboration between the French and Belgian security services and see how we could make this more effective and adapted to reality. At the last European Transport Council, we had a meeting in connection with this incident. The Commissioner has launched a study on all new technologies for installing systems for the detection of metals or explosive materials in public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a delicate subject that I would like to be able to bring back to our soil. You have already expressed your support for the "one man car". Next to that, you say that in Spain, there are controls at the entrance to the stations. Do you have a new plan? You advise me to question Minister Jan Jambon; I will do so precisely on this matter to enable him to give his opinion on the checks that will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u74	Minister, with respect to the number of people employed by SNCB, and we had time to discuss it last week, on July 1, 2015, we went below the 33,000 full-time equivalents mark. The Memorandum of Understanding 2008-2010 provided for a minimum of 37,500 full-time equivalents. Since then, there has been no text defining this number. Recently, we learned that SNCB did not intend to replace natural departures. By 2020, 35% of natural departures are expected, i.e. about 7,000 full-time equivalents. You state in your strategic vision that you do not want to dismiss any staff members, but by not replacing retiring staff, SNCB finds itself faced with a lack of clear and difficult personnel to manage over the next few years. Minister, what solutions are you proposing to stop this erosion of SNCB personnel? How do you plan to complete the natural departure of 7,000 full-time equivalents by 2020? And 2020 is tomorrow. We'll be there very soon. The railway undertaking will not be able to operate in the same way with thousands of fewer employees. What measures do you intend to take to ensure the proper functioning of the company? The Memorandum of Understanding 2008-2010 provided for a minimum of 37,500 full-time equivalents in 2010. Do you intend to put in place a memorandum of understanding indicating a minimum number? If so, what is the figure you are considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u75	Mr Devin, a new memorandum of understanding is being prepared. As I have always said, it is up to companies, particularly HR Rail, to conduct social dialogue. However, I do not wish to scare the railwaymen. It is clear that there will certainly be no dismissals but, moreover, a significant part of natural departures will be filled. This is exactly the same logic as that applied in the regional administrations at present. Natural departures must be an opportunity for the internal organisation of our railways to set up new processes. In 2016, four generations with very different profiles will be present in companies. It is a challenge but also a great opportunity to enable effective and sustainable knowledge sharing. To continue wanting to maintain the methods of the past is to condemn ourselves in the short and medium term to a certain disorganization and disengagement of those who will form the forces of the company tomorrow. With regard to these replacements of staff leaving the Belgian railways, the evolution of automation and administrative simplification is taken into account at all levels. With regard to essential operational functions, the correct and efficient implementation of the provision of services to customers will be guaranteed at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you. We will have the opportunity to come back to this later because it is an extremely important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u77	Minister, as negotiations on the management contract approach, minds are getting warmer. While it is legitimate for everyone to try to get the cover out of him in these crucial negotiations, neither SNCB nor Infrabel knows the rules of a game which is essential for the daily lives of these companies, and also for the users of the coming years. Madam Minister, you have created this situation by voluntarily maintaining the vagueness on key points, such as the financial allocation of efforts. We have been told at the same time on this subject. The same applies to your intentions with regard to the infrastructure fee. Part of the debate took place at this level last week. As we understand it, the effort will be 53% for SNCB and 47% for Infrabel. But what about the infrastructure fee? It has been seen in attitudes and speech that Messrs. Cornu and Lallemand wonder what you are going to do about it. In addition to the fundamental budgetary aspect, the methodology for negotiation should also be clarified. Is it really appropriate to ask companies to carry out their business plans prior to the negotiation of management contracts? You are asking SNCB and Infrabel to play in a room where these companies would like to know the script. What methodology do you use in negotiating future management contracts? What is the relevance of requesting the performance of business contracts as a prerequisite for any negotiation of management contracts? Can you tell us the timing of these negotiations? As far as financial efforts are concerned, I imagine that you now have clear indications on this matter. We would like to know the distribution between the two companies and, above all, between investments and holdings. What are your intentions with regard to the infrastructure fee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u78	The keystone of my policy to clean up the finances of both companies is the establishment of a rigorous, transparent and guaranteed 2016-2019 budgetary framework. My firm is currently working in partnership with Infrabel and SNCB. The establishment of this framework will be the result, starting from the budgetary envelopes previously defined by the government, of the guidelines set out in my strategic vision in terms of quality of supply and productivity gain, in order to place Infrabel and SNCB in the top 5 railway undertakings. Work and negotiations on multi-annual investment plans and management contracts, which should have been prepared by my predecessors, in accordance with the legal requirements, business plans and the offer of SNCB's 2017 transport plan, are being carried out. These pillars form a whole and must necessarily be in phase over the period 2016-2019 and beyond. As you know, the state allocations to Infrabel and SNCB consist of operating budgets and investment budgets. I hope that the means will finally be concentrated mainly on the client's needs. It is therefore quite normal for discussions to take place, in parallel, on management contracts, multi-annual investment plans and business plans. Management contracts and business plans are therefore interdependent. Contrary to what you are suggesting, therefore, I have not asked that this be fully achieved before the start of the discussions on management contracts, even if that is what the usual procedure provides for. This ambitious work is to be completed, as already explained in Parliament in early 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u79	I thank the Minister for this clarification. I look forward to meeting with all of us after All Saints to discuss all of this. We are going to enter the last budgetary period; I imagine that all the figures will be put on the table and that we will be able to discuss them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Order of July 1, 2014, adopting the requirements for rolling stock for the use of furrows would require locomotives to equip themselves with the ETCS safety system. According to the plans, it should have come into force on 1 January 2016. However, according to my information, the entry into force of the system would have been delayed, as suppliers would not be able to equip the locomotives of the system in a timely manner. Minister, do you confirm that? Is a new date for the entry into force of the Royal Decree already foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u81	Madam Chair, Ms Jadin, various railway companies contacted me to inform me of the problems they were encountering in equipping their locomotives with the ETCS system within the required time frame. On the basis of this information, my services sent a letter to suppliers reminding them of their responsibilities. At this stage, my administration and Infrabel are considering the matter and I believe I can make a decision in the very short term. However, it is difficult today to give you a deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you. I think I'm far from the only one waiting for this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u83	Madam Minister, I have already asked such a question in the past, along with some other fellow Members. I think that Mr Veli Yüksel and Mrs Temmerman have already asked that question in the past. Today we have an extra partner. The port of Ghent is undoubtedly one of the engines of the economy in the region of East Flanders and the north of the country. In Flanders it is a very important actor, which creates a lot of employment. Unfortunately, until today, we have to note that the port of Ghent and the industrial companies established there are deprived of good public transport. For many years now there has been a railway line 204, which departs from Ghent to the north, towards Zelzate. That railroad does offer some possibilities. The infrastructure of this line is not ready for passenger transport, but freight transport will pass. The tracks are there and can be adapted, if investments are made, to the use for passenger transport. Moreover, it is one of the investments that the Flemish Region has put forward as a priority in relation to the railway infrastructure at Infrabel. Several municipalities around the city of Ghent are also asking parties to unlock the port area via railway station 204. Madam Minister, I know that you have visited the port of Ghent, like the other ports, and that this dossier has been raised there, including by the vessels responsible for the port, Mathias De Clercq. You know that the city administration and many actors in the port of Ghent are asking parties. You said you wanted to examine that investment and exploitation issue. This is the right time for that. We are now making an investment plan for the coming years. Can this project be included? The efficiency plan shall be drawn up in the first months of 2015. What's the status? Will the opening of line 204 be included in the multi-annual investment plan? What are the next steps in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u84	Madam Minister, as Mr Lachaert said, there is a railway line, line 204, which connects Ghent and Zelzate. At present, that line is only used for freight transport. However, the railway also offers many possibilities for passenger transport. Opening up passenger trains would significantly improve the accessibility of the port area. At present, the more than 70 000 workers employed by the companies in the port for their commuting are dependent on the car. There are hardly any alternatives to public transport. Also for the accessibility of the Ghent districts so dear to us on the right bank of the Ghent-Terneuzen canal passenger transport on line 204 would of course be a significant step forward. It is true that this process has been discussed for a very long time and that it is a line of thought. The Flemish government included the development of railway line 204 as a priority in its railway strategy. A study carried out by SNCB in 2012 has already shown that a passenger train on that line can be profitable. Anyone who speaks to managers, and a few weeks ago you were also present at Volvo on the occasion of the 50th anniversary, notes that all these workers today have hardly any public transport. We must, of course, give an urgent response to this. I have also raised my light, Madam Secretary, among people who should know. Provided that some adjustments are made, this is technically possible. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. What plans does SNCB currently have with regard to the development of rail line 204 for passengers? Was the extension of line 204 for passenger transport included in SNCB's 2013-2017 investment plan? What is your position on this file? Are you prepared to join the cart to enable passenger transport on line 204? When it comes, Madam Minister, this will have to be done with a diesel engine. So your push and pull is definitely more than welcome here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u85	Madam President, Minister, I would like to reassure you immediately and not repeat what my fellow Members have already said. Of course, I would very much like to join them when it comes to stressing the economic importance of the port of Ghent as an economic engine and an employment coil, not just for Ghent but for far beyond. Of course, public transport access is extremely important for this. There are indeed positive side effects, such as the opening of the canal villages. Even in the Netherlands people are asking for this. As I said, this is an old file. Several studies over the past decades have demonstrated the feasibility and economic added value of this line. I even remember questions from Mrs Helga Stevens in the Senate more than two legislative hours ago. This is an attempt to put the dossier back on the agenda together with a number of fellow Members. I can only appreciate and support this. I have some questions, Madam Secretary. In the meantime, what's the status of railroad 204? Is there still a light rail? Is that another option, because this has already been investigated in the past? I thought that the technical adjustments mentioned by Mr Yüksel included safety. The deployment of ETCS was planned by 2022. Is this still the timing that is being used? Or can the roll-out be brought forward, given the economic added value and the railway priority of the Flemish government? Do you see any possibilities for this, especially in view of the increased commitment to safety? Where are we on this matter with the consultation between the federal government and the regions? What obstacles are there left to allow the first passenger train to run on that line? You know that as a demo, the unions once put a passenger train on that line. This seems to me to be a very good thing that we can support. I'm not always negative about the unions, as you know. I believe that we must find a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u86	Madam President, SNCB informs me that the conversion of freight line 204 to a passenger line has already been analysed. This analysis took into account the passenger potential for the various stops in the port area and the potential of the city of Zelzate. However, the operation of this line is not profitable and involves high investment costs. At the moment, half the employees are on their way for half an hour. The workers live very scattered around the port and that makes it particularly difficult to offer a good and full product. The train can bring little at the comfort, speed and price of a car displacement. On the other hand, the bus can respond more flexibly in the port area to the scattered travel needs. The operating costs for a train are the annual recurring cost of running trains between Maldegem, Eeklo, Ghent and Zelzate, on the basis of a half-hour train on working days and diesel engine sets were estimated at EUR 16 million in 2009 in a study carried out at that time. In any event, in order to prepare the future multi-annual investment plan, the project will be submitted to the investment cell for evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u87	Madam Secretary, I hear a rather negative message. Your conclusion is that that line would not be profitable, and there would be figures. We do not have the opportunity to replicate again here, so I will ask you a supplementary written question to obtain those figures. I'm surprised. Eventually 22 000 people work in the port. I will put in a written question to obtain the figures for that study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u88	Madam Secretary, your answer must be seen as positive and negative at the same time. In my question I referred to a study of 2012. You quoted figures from a 2009 study. I am curious about the figures of 2012. We will continue to work on this. Madam Minister, on the basis of operating costs, the railway is now saying that it is far too expensive and not profitable, which I do not think is a good signal for the use of public transport by all the workers who have to call at the port. I therefore urge you to study this seriously and thoroughly and to look at an alternative, for example the train combined with the bus. I believe that there must also be an important communication with the companies there, because they are all interested parties in public transport, preferably a train. I think we should see this as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u89	Madam Minister, in view of the previous positive figures from the profitability study, I regret that we are now suddenly seeing an evolution towards a less positive scenario. That's too bad. I am curious about these figures. This would not be such a good thing, because the potential there is enormous. Perhaps the operating costs are a problem, but the impact on our economy of offering such a line is very large. We can see that there are still a lot of vacancies in the port area today, even many job vacancies for low-skilled people, while Ghent is still a region with many unskilled workers who do not yet have a job; so there are many unemployed. You can see that the employers there are doing their utmost and even using buses to pick up workers in Geraardsbergen, all the way to the south of the province. This is done at the expense of the companies. It is of course a good thing that they invest in this, but you can see how difficult it is to get people to work there. I believe that the government should also be aware of these issues and also look at the economic added value it can offer in order to get people to work. This is, in my view, the priority of public transport. Public transport should not be used to get people to the most crazy places; public transport should be a priority for bringing people to school and work. That seems essential to me, and that seems to me to be a basic task for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u90	Madam Minister, we will have regular concerns about the sixth state reform on road transport. I will be able to ask you questions about it on a regular basis. I read in the newspaper in early October 2015 that you intend to launch a new belt campaign. This is an awareness campaign on the seat belts of all drivers, but this is undoubtedly the responsibility of the regions. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. How does the new campaign you announced rhyme with the jurisdictional rules? Has the initiative been communicated to the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u91	Mrs Dumery, it was not a campaign as such, but it was the presentation of the results of a study conducted by the BIVV, which is known as a centre of knowledge for its expertise. The study can draw attention to a problem which makes things even worse in the event of road accidents. Every year, dozens of lives could be saved if people were to wear their seat belts at the time of the accident. Through such investigations, I mean all those responsible for policy can take action within their own area of competence. In my capacity as Minister for Mobility, I am still responsible for safety on our roads. Finally, Mrs Dumery, I can reassure you. The investigation in question was not conducted with public funds. Volvo is a member of the membership programme of the BIVV and everything, including the use of the BIVV's human resources, is paid in full by this partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u92	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. Of course, there's a concern about seat belts. Fortunately, all policy levels share that concern. You are indeed competent for security. Sensitisation, however, is an exclusive competence of the region's regions. There will always be a grey zone in between. That's the legacy of the state reform. Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u93	Madam Minister, this question concerns monowheels and the fact that there are already electric ones, some 500 of which have already been sold in Flanders. It is a trend that is rising and we must take it into account. The traders also say that much more are being sold. There is no clarity as to where the monowheel belongs now. Is that on the road, the bike path or the footpath? Can you clarify this to me and to the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u94	Mrs. Dumery, a monowheel is similar to a Segway. Both vehicles are moved by the front or back of the body. The difference is that a monowheel has only one wheel and is driven hands-free. Since Segways have been admitted to public roads for several years, I believe that the same should apply to the monowheels. In order to allow the monowheel to open up to the public road, only a minor adjustment of the traffic rules is required. My administration has already prepared a draft for this purpose. The intention is that this adjustment should enter into force at the beginning of next year. The users of monowheels must follow the rules applicable to the users of propulsion equipment as regards the public road location. This means that they are treated as pedestrians when they do not drive faster than step-foots and with cyclists when they drive faster than step-foots.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u95	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is very reassuring that a legislative initiative is being taken. We have to go along with the trends, including in the area of legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u96	Madam President, Minister, a whole series of stations are affected by the SNCB plan to replace windows with automatic terminals. In Wallonia Picarde, after the stations of Herseaux and Blaton, the stations of Peruwelz, Leuze, Lessines and Enghien were dismantled. Since the 1st of July, there is no ticket office on weekends in Lessines and Peruwelz, the weekend afternoons in Enghien and every afternoon in Leuze. The loss of this proximity service has certain negative consequences for the station itself as well as for travellers. This creates, first of all, a feeling of insecurity. Removing a human presence in a station attracts some squatters or thugs who degrade the premises. For example, repeated acts of degradation are found in Blaton. In addition, this creates concerns for some travellers seeking specific information or in need of assistance. The teller provided information that a machine could not give: inform and give the traveller the best fare, help in case of lost object, etc. I am also thinking of the elderly or those with difficulty reading who, as a result, have difficulty using automatic terminals. I recently read in the press that the train attendants noticed an increasing number of passengers buying their ticket inside the train for fear of using the automatic terminals, resulting in an increase in the ticket price of 7 euros for passengers, an increase due to a surcharge, but also an overload of work for the attendants. Minister, what are you proposing to compensate for the lack of safety caused by the "dehumanization" of these stations? What are you doing with some elderly people or people with difficulty reading and who, therefore, find it difficult to use automatic terminals? And finally, will the closing at certain times of the windows ultimately lead to the final closure of the windows?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the staff of the counters are not intended to protect buildings. For this security mission, SNCB has other means. Thus, the stations of Lessines, Peruwelz, Leuze and Enghien are equipped with an anti-intruder system as well as surveillance cameras. These stations are also included in the Securrail patrol scheme. A cooperation agreement with the authorities already exists for Leuze station. A discussion is under way for the stations of Lessines, Peruwelz and Enghien. In addition, a free phone number to the monitoring centres 0800 30 230 is available. However, I recognize that human presence is a means of ensuring social control. SNCB will also contact the municipalities concerned in order to conclude, as a matter of priority, an agreement with each of them in order to have a reliable partner and to keep a (...) and a reception at these stations. SNCB provides its customers with a hotline. The call number is indicated on each automaton and can be reached daily from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. The hotline can help the customer and even take control of the sales dialogue to guide him in the purchase of his ticket until the moment of payment, the payment being the only transaction that the customer has to perform alone, as in any other business elsewhere. This customer service can be used as many times as necessary. In addition, SNCB is prepared to provide additional information on the use of automatons to associations or municipalities that request them. There is no link between a temporary closure and a permanent closure. The SNCB adapts the means to be put in place according to needs and needs, which it constantly monitors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-28-54-commissie-ic260x.u98	Thank you, Madam Minister. Like you, I think physical presence is a form of security. I understand that conventions will be proposed. I will follow this with interest.
