ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking up our broad agenda, although I note that many questions are referred to other committees, are postponed or are converted into written questions. This applies to the first three questions on our agenda, namely questions Nos 4248 by Mr Spooren, 5769 by Mr Delizée and 5856 by Mrs Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u2	Mr President, Minister, anyone who has tried to book a flight on the Internet has been able to observe significant price variations from hour to hour, if not from minute to minute. Some of these changes may be associated with objective elements such as the price of fuel or an optimization of the tariff revenue, but this is not always the case. Indeed, the phenomenon of IP tracking has been highlighted, which can explain price increases. The principle is simple: when a ticket search is carried out on the internet, the operator registers this search and associates it with the IP address of the used terminal (computer, smartphone, etc.).). This allows the operator to know the interest in the product. When a new search is carried out from the same IP address, the price has therefore increased. This practice, although unrecommended, is, I believe, not prohibited. On the other hand, other operators confirm the purchase at a certain price and then send you a price change. As far as travel contracts are concerned, Belgian law provides that the price of travel may vary both upwards and downwards up to 20 days before departure, but only to take account of the cost of transport (fuel), taxes and charges relating to the services offered and exchange rates, and only if the contract so provides. As far as flights are concerned, European regulations guarantee consumer protection. It seems to me that this aspect of prices is not regulated. Minister, do you intend to take steps to combat this IP tracking? Are checks carried out to ensure that prices accepted by both parties are not subsequently changed? Have there been any complaints about these two practices? Should not a specific provision for flight bookings be made for price variations? Do you intend to take initiatives at Belgian level or encourage them at European level to further protect consumers in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, there are currently no plans to combat IP tracking. The analysis of this new economic model is integrated into a European and even global context. For the time being, the Economic Inspectorate does not have enough evidence on the existence of this practice to draw conclusions. If measures were to be taken to frame it, they would have to be defined at European level. Checks are carried out on the basis of complaints received. We have received very few complaints about price changes when booking airline tickets on the internet: 4 in 2013, 7 in 2014 and 2 in 2015. Given the nature of the new economic practices that arise on the Internet, national initiatives would have no effect. The Economic Inspectorate is in constant contact with its European colleagues in charge of consumer protection. Considerations on this subject are ongoing within the Consumer Protection Corporation e-Enforcement Group. Mr de Lamotte, if there is a problem, we must ask for action at European level, but in view of the figures I have just mentioned, it seems to me that the problem is limited. However, if you have any other figures or information, I am willing to look at them and think about how to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. I don't think everyone's filing a complaint. Indeed, IP tracking exists. Personally, I am an example and you can add me to your statistics for 2015. It is necessary to have a proactive action in relation to this dimension because it appears, at certain times, really as a scam. Between the time you book your ticket and the time you are awarded it, there is an effective increase in the price. I am surprised that there are so few complaints because several people must have been in the case. If the number of complaints were to increase, it would take a proactive attitude to preserve the consumer against these borderline commercial methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u5	Thank you, Mr. de Lamotte. Your timing was perfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 5908 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 6210 is being postponed. Minister, now there is a question from myself on the agenda. In order to maintain neutrality, I will leave the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u7	Mr President, I do not have to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u8	Okay, then I'll narrow down the chair dance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u9	Minister, this question is about paying contactless. Contactless payment can be done with more and more bank cards and is therefore more and more common. This means more precisely that the card should no longer be inserted into the payment terminal, but can simply be held against the terminal. In this way up to 25 euros can be paid without entering a PIN, up to a maximum of 50 euros in consecutive payments, after which the PIN must be used as an additional security. Also the contactless payment via smartphone, for example Apple Pay or Samsung Pay, is in the process of a strong advance, although the latter is apparently not yet possible in Belgium. These mobile payments operate via a chip similar to the contactless payment cards. In countries where these systems are better established, it is possible, for example, to pay via smartphone or contactless payment card in the supermarket. Apparently, in London, even the subway can be paid for by holding those devices against the scanner. I think all these things are interesting for ease of use. Mr Minister, since these payment systems are also on the rise, I have a few questions about this. First of all, are you aware of these payment options? I'll take that as my assumption. Secondly, are the public services in our country prepared for this new way of paying? If not, do you intend to invest in it in the future? Were there any discussions on this with the various sectors? Finally, do you see any further areas of application for these new forms of payment in our country? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, aware of this new form of payment. Febelfin, the federation of the Belgian financial sector, informed me that several Belgian banks are currently offering contactless cards to their customers. It is not excluded that other banks will follow their example. In addition to the contactless card, there is another form of contactless payment, especially with the help of a smartphone. In this respect, the Belgian banks invested in the BCMC app, the Bancontact/Mister Cash app, which allows payments to be made via the QR code scan. It is expected that this form of contactless payment will develop strongly. Secondly, I am not aware of the payment methods accepted by public services. In this context, it is better to address the Minister responsible for public services. Thirdly, first of all, it will be necessary to thoroughly examine the current applications of contactless payments. Afterwards, consideration could be given to the further extension of the system. The starting point must be that the switch to non-contact payments contributes to a faster and more efficient form of payment for consumers and traders. We must, of course, continue to ensure that the security and privacy of the customer and his financial data can be guaranteed in further applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u11	Minister, it is indeed a new form of payment, which is going to increase. We must, indeed, keep a close eye on the security and privacy aspects. That's obvious. We must try, as we have often done in our country in the past, to be among the forerunners on the market, compared to the countries around us. Encouragement is needed and I will also make suggestions to your fellow Members, the ministers for the various public services. The more we can roll out the system, provided it is safe, the better to get the number of cash payments down.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u12	Minister, the Code of Economic Law provides that for each distance contract the consumer has a right of withdrawal. This means that the consumer can withdraw a purchase by informing the company about it within a period of 14 days. The company then has fourteen days to repay all payments received, including shipping costs. Today, these distance agreements are becoming more and more established. Online purchases via web stores, for example, are now an important part of our economy. e-commerce will be dealt with in another committee, but it has something to do with it. It is important for consumers to be able to trust this method and to ensure that the reimbursement is always smooth when asked for it. Now it doesn't always seem like that. Research in Belgium and the Netherlands shows that the reimbursement after withdrawal is not always flawless. For example, customers often do not get the right amount back, that they receive a voucher instead of money or that they are refunded too late. I would have liked to have received some recent figures from you. How many complaints are there about these refunds on online purchases? Is there in any way a check on the refund of the returned products? If so, is this check satisfactory or should this system be extended? Thank you in advance for your answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u13	Mr President, Mr Klaps, the Economic Inspectorate received 101 notifications in 2014 and 61 this year, until 31 August 2015. This number includes both the problems with information on the existence or absence of that right of withdrawal and the problems with the rules for reimbursement after the consumer has exercised that right. A detailed breakdown of the notifications according to the problems of reimbursement is not available. Certain notifications give rise to an inspection at the premises of the undertaking in question, provided that the company is established in Belgium and is subject to several similar notifications. The analysis of consumers' complaints makes it possible to monitor these companies in full and in a targeted manner. Before the Economic Inspectorate can verify whether the legislation on the exercise of the right of withdrawal is effective and whether the consumer is indeed protected, the sales contract must have been implemented. At present, the Economic Inspectorate can only rely on consumer reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u14	Minister, it is important to continue monitoring this dossier as well. The share of e-commerce in the total number of purchases will only increase, so this problem will have a greater impact. More transactions mean by definition more complaints and more possibilities for an error to happen. It may be an assignment for the FOD to find out exactly what these complaints are about. There is, after all, a difference as to whether one gets one's money a day late or whether one has to wait a year for it, whether one gets one's money or just a voucher to make other purchases. These are different situations that we need to keep an eye on. I think most players online perfectly comply with the regulations, so this is definitely not a witch hunt. However, we must continue to monitor this or perhaps create a label for companies that follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u15	Mr Minister, I already prepared this question on energy labels in August 2015, before it burst into the press. It therefore partly overlaps with what has already been published. For lack of a glass ball, of course, I didn't know that at the time. When purchasing an electrical device, most devices have an energy label indicating how energy efficient the device is. This is a European label, which has been mandatory for a number of devices since 1995. It provides different information about energy consumption. Household appliances such as vacuum cleaners, ovens, refrigerators and freezers are grouped into energy consumption categories ranging from A++ to D and even G. However, it has been found that the energy labels on appliances do not always correspond to actual consumption, which can mislead consumers. Such labels, of course, only have value if they are reliable. How are the energy labels awarded to the products today? What procedures are applied in this respect? What are the criteria for this? What controls exist today to ensure correct information? Are adjustments needed to the award procedure, control and obligation to provide clear information on the energy label? It is basically a question of European regulation. Is the issue also being discussed in Europe today? Are there any discussions on this at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the criteria for the award of a label are laid down for each product group separately. It is the European Commission that awards the label on the basis of impact analyses and consultations of stakeholders and national experts. Energy criteria, energy efficiency criteria and other criteria, such as performance and noise, will be taken into account. The manufacturer shall ensure that the test is carried out correctly or that it is carried out. He shall place the correct information on the label. That is the situation at the moment. Belgium, like other European Member States, regularly carries out checks on the products and takes action against manufacturers who are not in order. The checks shall consist, on the one hand, of administrative checks and, on the other hand, of roadworthiness tests. Every year, aircraft are sampled by the FPS Economy, which has them tested in laboratories according to European rules. From 2009 to 2014, 100 devices were tested in a lab; 41 products showed no deficiency; 38 products showed a deficiency on the label, including a non-correct logo and a font too small, and 21 labels indicated a different energy class than was measured in the lab. A number of new campaigns are underway, the results will be available in 2016. There was the public debate in that context. Some colleagues believe that the tests should not be carried out by the manufacturer, but by an independent expert committee or group of experts. However, Europe requires that the tests are carried out by the manufacturer. As a result, we have decided to launch new campaigns and the results will be available in 2016. Finally, not unimportantly, on 15 July, the European Commission proposed a revised version of the Energy Label Framework Directive. That Regulation proposes several adjustments which should improve the shortcomings of the current Directive. The text becomes clearer and more readable, including measures to strengthen the control of information on the label and to increase the clarity and effectiveness of the label. Mandatory testing by independent laboratories is currently not included in European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u17	Mr. Secretary, it's hallucinating if 59 out of 100 aircraft prove to be wrong. Then we have a problem. I am not in favour of creating all kinds of structures to be re-tested seven times by different bodies, but if we let the manufacturer award the labels himself, the score could be quite higher than 41 out of 100. As far as I know, it's been drained. Of course, one hundred devices is not so crazy as to see what is available on the market. So I'm looking very closely at the campaign you're launching. In about a year's time, I will ask about the new figures for the checks. After all, the results are really hallucinating. There's a lot of work to be done here. From my own experience I know that for the purchase of a new freezer or refrigerator I will be guided by the energy label. Consumers are, in the meantime, alert and take this into account. If the label turns out to be wrong, then perhaps they paid too much for a label that is absolutely wrong. In other words, they have been seen twice. Minister, I support your initiative for a campaign and I will continue to follow the dossier to see if there will be any improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u18	Mr Calvo has not shown up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 5971 will be dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 5974 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u20	Mr Minister, recent testimonies show that insurance companies do not intervene in the medical costs of a patient if he or she has undergone psychiatric treatment, even if he or she has hospitalisation insurance. I have been informed in the press that you have scheduled a meeting with Assuralia on the issue. Are exclusions from a policy, which certainly occur frequently in hospitalisation insurance, sufficiently communicated when someone supports the policy? Is reimbursement of psychiatric costs excluded in all hospitalisation insurances or is it a choice of certain insurers, which may have an effect on the premium? Can psychiatric patients still have their psychiatric costs covered if they pay a supplement? Has the planned consultation already taken place? If not, when is it scheduled? If so, what is the outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u21	Minister, psychiatrist associations in Belgium have indicted a striking discrimination in most supplementary hospitalisation insurances. Unlike admissions for physical diseases, most hospitalisations for mental problems are not reimbursed, while admission for severe mental problems can be an important step in recovery. Several governments and organisations have been trying to break the taboo of mental problems and depression for years. This is not insignificant if we know that Flanders has one of the highest suicide rates in Europe. One in four people face more or less serious psychological problems sooner or later. The taboo of mental problems must be broken not only in the minds of people, but also in the administration and in insurance. It is difficult to heal if we are pursued for many years by an enormous amount of administration and financial burdens. Minister, you have already indicated your desire to sit with Assuralia on this matter. Has that conversation taken place in the meantime? What were the conclusions or what message do you want to give the insurance companies? What do you think of the system in the Netherlands and the United States, where the law states that insurance companies should not distinguish between mental and somatic disorders? Do you see a way to integrate recordings for mental problems into hospitalisation insurance without leading to significant additional costs for the consumer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u22	Firstly, are exclusions sufficiently communicated when the policies are closed? The answer to this is that the guarantee in hospitalisation insurance varies considerably from insurance policy to insurance policy. The insurer or insurance intermediary is obliged under the Belgian MiFID legislation to inform the policy holder about the existence of any exclusions in the insurance policy before the contract is concluded. Next, the Insurance Act states that each insurer must clearly state in the concrete insurance contract what costs he will incur. In addition, a directive on the distribution of insurance has recently been adopted at European level. The Directive provides that the insurer must submit to the prospective insurer a summary information document indicating, inter alia, the exclusions from cover prior to the conclusion of the contract. This document is now being developed at European level and must then be transposed into Belgian law. I believe that Mr Klaps has asked for this earlier. Secondly, is reimbursement of psychiatric costs excluded in all hospitalization insurances? The answer is that not all hospitalisation insurance in our country systematically and completely exclude reimbursement of the costs of psychiatric treatments. The guarantees in hospitalisation insurance vary according to the insurance product, including as regards reimbursement of psychiatric costs. Some additional hospitalisation insurances do not cover psychiatric treatments, while other hospitalisation insurances have included curative psychiatric treatments in the guarantee. Thirdly, can psychiatric patients still cover their psychiatric costs if they pay a supplement? Some hospitalisation insurers on the market are willing to offer a person who has had a psychiatric condition in the past, coverage for future psychiatric costs, depending on the counsel's risk analysis and if a supplement is paid. This is not a general practice. In any event, the level of the insurance premium will depend on what is covered. If the insurer is required to cover the costs, as in the United States or the Netherlands, this will automatically mean an increase in the premium. That is why I am more in favour of the supplement. Has the consultation already taken place? An initial consultation with Assuralia has already taken place to find out about the sector's current policies. The contacts have shown that the situation is not so clear and that the policies vary between the various insurance companies, as I have just explained. On that occasion, they were also reminded of their obligations to provide information to their customers. You said that in the Netherlands or in the United States it would be literally in the law that insurance companies should not distinguish between mental and somatic disorders, and you asked whether that example could be followed in our country. I understand from Assuralia that extending the scope may have an important impact on the premium, but I am prepared to discuss and address the problem further, in consultation with all stakeholders, given the financial aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u23	Mr Minister, the conclusion of an insurance policy today is often accompanied by a lot of administrative obligations. We've already talked about that. I call for this to be rationalised. The situation is an example of this. It is essential information. If one takes such a policy, one must know what one is insured for. I may disagree with Mr Vanheste. I don't think it's appropriate to require cover. Then the premium for hospitalization insurance will increase even more than what we have seen in recent years. I don't think that's appropriate. It must be clear to a consumer which risks are excluded when taking a policy. In recent years, more attention has been paid to this in setting up fire insurance, for example. They say that everything is covered, except a, b, c, d... Communication could be much better with hospitalisation insurance. That can also be arranged through Assuralia. Not all of this should be imposed by royal decrees. I believe that the sector is sufficiently aware of the fact that information in this area is an essential element of confidence in their sector. As soon as they apply that rule, I think we've gone a long way. As far as we are concerned, there is no question of an obligation to cover this, given the substantial increase in premiums that this would entail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u24	Mr Klaps, of course I disagree on this point. It is said that there is an exclusion for a, b or c, but when such a policy is concluded, the consumer feels strong and assumes that some risks do not apply to him. But then it happens to him: he gets stuffy, he has mental problems and he gets financial problems that go with them, because he doesn't have insurance. This means that healing takes longer or doesn't even happen. I would argue that this obligation should be included. We must make sure that the cost does not become too high, but I believe that there should be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u25	I would like to discuss that, and I will certainly be able to discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u26	We look forward to the continuation of the debate. Mrs. Smaers is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Kitir's 6004 will be dealt with in the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u28	Mr President, Minister, this summer many Belgian travel plans were made, although some of them fell into the water because of illness, family problems or work; in short, because of unexpected reasons why a journey cannot take place. When a flight is planned, it becomes difficult to cancel, especially if the right insurance has not been taken out. Refunding tickets from the airline would be very difficult. Often only a fraction of the ticket is refunded. The airline, on the other hand, can sell the tickets back and thus receive twice as much money for the same seat. Mr Minister, I know that cancellation insurance can be taken out, but this situation must feel a little harsh according to your gut. Is it not possible to encourage airlines to charge the original passengers only administrative costs and to pay the airline ticket back in full when the seats are sold?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u29	Mr President, I understand Mrs Vanheste's concern and those who are in such a situation. For the time being, however, there is no legal provision concerning the cancellation of plane tickets by the traveller, as you indicated yourself, Mrs Vanheste. This matter is covered by the European regulated rights of air passengers, for which the Minister for Mobility is responsible. I always have to make sure I don't exceed my authority. Now only the cancellation insurance can provide a satisfactory answer. Your concern is justified, but this is a European issue in which my colleague from Mobility must take the lead in changing something, preferably at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u30	Minister, I am glad that you share my concern. I will put the question to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u31	Mr President, Minister, electronic payments can no longer be ignored in the case of daily purchases. In the supermarkets, clothing shops, even neighborhood shops and bakeries are increasingly paid with the card. That is why I think it is extremely important that the devices for this payment are as user-friendly as possible, including for people with disabilities. Often the amount is entered by the employees at the cash register itself and the consumer has to agree to the amount. At that time it would be useful for blind and partially sighted customers or for customers with dysphasia to have the opportunity to provide auditory support. Minister, do you think that limiting customers would benefit from aural assistance in electronic payment? Can you turn on or even require mobile payment devices manufacturers to provide their devices with auditory support, so that blind people and visually impaired people or people with dysphasia can hear the amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Vanheste, I too share your concern. It is indeed a good idea that people with visual impairment could benefit from auditory assistance. At present, this does not provide for standards for terminals, nor does there exist any legal national or European requirements in this area. If we want to regulate this regulation, I think it would be useful to do so within a European context, given the evolving payment landscape. However, I will take action in this area and I will contact the institutions concerned to inform them of this problem if they do not know it yet and to raise their awareness. I will also raise this matter with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, to see if we can take the lead in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u33	Minister, I am very pleased that you are taking this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 6115 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u35	Minister, I am concerned about the government's consumer policy. It seems as if all the measures taken by Mr Vande Lanotte in the previous government to give consumers a fairer price in complex markets such as insurance and energy are being abolished. I have already asked questions about energy recruiters who contract unsuspecting consumers and the practices of insurers who unilaterally raise prices. What does the government do? She'll follow. Insurance premiums may be increased, there will be no additional checks on suppliers. It itself introduces the index jump, but makes exceptions for the insurance premiums that the index is allowed to follow, and increases VAT on gas and electricity in the context of something that can only be described as a tax shift in favour of large assets and companies. The consumer with a modest capacity is the victim. Minister, where is the protection for consumers? Once again, I would have liked to draw your attention to the practices of energy suppliers that are absolutely unacceptable. Since 2012, there has been a free switch from supplier. This was made possible, inter alia, by prohibiting a termination fee in the event of a transfer. It is now clear that Essent, among other things, ignores this ban through a full charge of the fixed fee in the event of a premature exchange. Minister, that is a flagrant violation of the ban on cancellation fees. Can you investigate this complaint, made by Test-Achats, and check if any other energy suppliers apply these practices? Can you justify those suppliers who do not respect the prohibition of termination fees and ensure that those customers who have wrongly paid compensation receive them back?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u36	Mr Vanheste, your question is rather tendentious in certain areas. I'm not going into the tax shift any more. Of course, the fact that I would undo the work of Johan Vande Lanotte is not correct. Let us stick to your specific questions. Fixed fees have been part of the price requested by energy suppliers for a long time and have not been specifically introduced after the introduction of the one-month legal notice period. That is why I do not believe that this fixed remuneration in itself affects the legal right of cancellation. However, care must be taken to ensure that the energy suppliers do not abuse the flat-rate compensation and would demand ineligible amounts, which would not be repaid pro rata during the year itself. I have therefore instructed the General Directorate of Economic Inspection of my administration to examine this issue further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for giving that order to your services. I will perhaps come back to this later if your administration has any results in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u38	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of the summer you were successfully with the catering partners in order to achieve correct relations between breweries, drink dealers and catering operators. The so-called work contracts have long been a thorn in the eye of many hospitality operators who are too little of a mark on their business and are even the cause of bankruptcies. Better relations between breweries and cafes are now being developed, and that is a step in the right direction. I would like to know a little more about the direction of the consultation. At the moment, there would be a desire to draw up a code of conduct by November in order, I quote from your press release, to achieve a healthy and balanced partnership. Minister, how quickly can the code of conduct be drawn up? Is the deadline of 1 November feasible? Will the Code of Conduct be effective as of 1 January 2016? What do you and the various actors involved in the consultation mean by a healthy and balanced partnership? Will the catering operators have the freedom to set up their own business as they wish? Will catering operators have the opportunity to sell drinks from different breweries? Will sanctions be provided for in the non-compliance with the code of conduct? Who's gonna watch this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u39	Mr President, Minister, to my question No. 5215 in connection with the brewery contracts, you stated that on 1 July 2015 you would consult again with the three catering federations, including the Belgian Brewers brewery federation and FeBeD, the Federation of Belgian Drink Traders. The aim is to establish a code of conduct through a Memorandum of Understanding to support a balanced partnership between the catering operator and the brewery and/or beverage trader. This Code of Conduct should be ready by 1 November 2015 in order to enter into force on 1 January 2016. Further discussions would begin after the summer recess, so I suppose after the second Tuesday of October. The government was asked to play a role in this as a partner. You asked the Arbitration Committee to give you an opinion by September on the clauses in the brewery contracts to see if they would be unbalanced. Minister, how did the consultations with the federations take place on 1 July? What concrete decisions were taken? Have you received the opinion of the Arbitration Committee? What are the conclusions on the clauses in the brewery contracts? What role does the government take in view of the busy times for the hospitality agencies during the summer months? Is 1 November a realistic date, given the short period and the importance you attach to consultation in order to arrive at a code of conduct, which could also have an impact on the entry into force on 1 January 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are working hard. Next, questions about fitness and solarium centers will follow. We are very intensive in this matter. We have already held four meetings with the catering and brewing sectors and another meeting will be held this week. So we are working with a great deal of energy and hopefully there will be success. I'll try to give you an update. The discussions on the code of conduct for relations between the catering and brewing sectors are still ongoing, including this week. It is therefore a little too early to make public statements on this matter or to respond specifically to your questions. I can tell you that a number of important points have been agreed between the two sectors. The negotiations were restarted after the summer recess. The hospitality industry had asked for some time during the holiday period, because that sector would have other things to do than discuss the code of conduct. Four meetings have now taken place and I still hope to reach an agreement during November, if that is not exactly on 1 November, then I suppose you will not kill me for that. I have already thought about possible measures that I could take if the sectors fail to draw up a code of conduct, but I assume that they will succeed. Once again, it is too early to make statements on this or to provide more text and explanation. I hope you understand. After all, early declarations might hinder an agreement, which is certainly possible. The conversations are still going on. The sectors concerned share the conviction that they both benefit from a healthy and balanced partnership. This will be confirmed in the Code of Conduct on the basis of a number of codes of conduct. The possibility to sell drinks from other brewers is a very delicate element.... is part of this. However, it is not intended to regulate every detail of the contractual relationship between the two sectors in the Code of Conduct. Once again, the negotiations on the code of conduct have not yet been concluded, so it would not be wise for me to say that I hope you have understood this in order to respond more concretely, for example, to possible sanctions. I would ask you to be patient until November, and I would like to come back to this matter in order to give full text and explanation of the content of the code of conduct. If no agreement has been reached, then at that time I will communicate about the actions I will take, i.e. without a code of conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u41	I am sure, Minister, that you will not be able to comment on this matter now, and I will not press for it. I was just asking a question. I've already spoken to catering operators, beer dealers and brewers, and it wrings on all sides. Mistakes are made, both by the catering operators, who sometimes go too far in their requests towards the breweries, and by the brewers, who may also be more protective of their customers. That is my concern and I believe that you share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, we should not be pinning ourselves down on the date of 1 November 2015. The important thing is that an agreement is reached. You report that an agreement is possible between all parties, which we see as positive. I have one more question, even if you don't have to answer it. I asked Minister Borsus my first question about the brewery contracts. Then you gave a press conference together, following the statements of Horeca Vlaanderen. Now I have the impression that the whole dossier is on your table, but I note that one of your party colleagues once again is asking questions to Minister Borsus. Is it not appropriate to assign everything related to brewery contracts to one minister? Otherwise there will be a ping-pong game between different ministers, which is not the best way for Members of Parliament to get answers from a minister. Would that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u43	Mr President, first of all, Mr Borsus's cabinet is represented at all meetings. So we're playing the game very open. I trust that you will pass on that suggestion directly to the honourable Member concerned. There is no point in asking Minister Borsus or myself the same questions. We have caught the cow by the horns. I repeat that we have done so with good agreements and in cooperation with Mr Borsus. We are trying to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion together; there is no discussion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u44	Minister, I note that you will not be shot by the majority or the opposition on 1 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssen's 6047 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I asked you a few months ago about the so-called "extra" commercial guarantee. As a reminder, it must in principle offer a surplus over the legal guarantee covering tangible goods for two years, without being able to reduce the rights that the legal guarantee offers to the consumer. This does not necessarily mean that the duration of the commercial guarantee is longer than that of the legal guarantee. In this respect and given that some unscrupulous professionals use questionable sales techniques and do not properly inform consumers of the existence of the legal guarantee, I asked you whether any checks in this area were carried out and I wanted to know the results, if any. You then told me that the Economic Inspectorate had conducted a general investigation with control operations between October 1, 2014 and March 31, 2015. At that time, of course, you did not yet have the final report. Minister, do you now have the final report of the general inquiry? If so, can you communicate it to me? If not, can you tell me when you will be able to dispose of it? Can you tell me what the main lines of this investigation are? Can you tell me if further monitoring is planned for the coming months? What about the European sweep in terms of guarantee and its result, namely 45% of websites with defects in terms of the guarantee? Is a sanction provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, I have indeed received the report from the Economic Inspectorate. The survey analysed 204 websites. More than half of them, 55% (112 sites), were in order with regard to economic regulation; 45% (92 sites) were found to be in breach. The most frequently reported violations are as follows: - failure to comply with the two-year legal guarantee (20%); - limitation of the legal guarantee on accessories (14%); - the absence of an informative reminder on the legal rights of the consumer (14%); - the imposition of additional conditions to benefit from the legal guarantee (14%); - the proposal for a solution involving a cost to the consumer (11%). In the short term, no new general investigation is planned regarding the legal or commercial guarantee. This ad hoc investigation can always be carried out, e.g. following reports. In the framework of the European sweep, 59 websites were checked, 29 sites (46%) were further monitored for infringements. In a first check, if infringements are found, the Economic Inspectorate shall first draw up a warning report. In the absence of order within the prescribed period, a pro justitia shall be established. It is normally followed by a transaction proposal. If this transaction is paid by the offender, the public action will be discontinued. In the absence of payment, the file shall be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office for appropriate follow-up. Criminal sanctions can be up to EUR 25 000. To finalize, I can send the document tolag van het algemeen onderzoek with all the elements, but I have delivered you the most important conclusions of the Economic Inspectorate's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u48	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. These figures are intriguing. We have a mission and you have the responsibility for consumer protection. As these investigations and controls represent a significant cost to the state, I can understand that no new investigations are planned in the short term. However, we must continue this mission because we must protect the consumer. To do this, we must have figures and see what is happening on the ground. This is only made possible by these controls. Compared to websites, the figures are also disturbing: 46% of websites are in violation! What makes me happy is that a VP is issued, that a warning is sent before applying the higher penalty. In this regard, a follow-up of the cases is necessary, as it is absolutely necessary to protect the consumer from all these abuses. If there are very correct professionals, let them be highlighted, but that those who are unscrupulous are punished seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u49	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I now know that it is the Economic Inspectorate, which reports to your department, and not the AFSCA, which is responsible for certain aspects of food safety, including labelling. The production and marketing of foodstuffs are accompanied by economic labelling rules. The Economic Inspectorate shall ensure that the consumer receives the information required by the Product Law and shall also ensure that the information is accurate. In 2014, for example, there were 178 surveys of wholesalers, wholesalers and butchers concerning the trade names "veal meat" and "young bovine meat" for a total of 41 offences found. Recently, the Economic Inspectorate has indicated that it wants to work with less resources but more effectively, focusing on more targeted and specific controls. Deputy Prime Minister, as far as food security is concerned, the Economic Inspectorate will therefore work with a new angle of attack. Will this new method of work be evaluated? If so, when? Do you think that more targeted controls can ensure more effective food safety control for the consumer? I'm sure you will, but you'll explain it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, with regard to market surveillance, there is ongoing cooperation, both strategically and operationally, between the SPF Economy and the AFSCA in order to optimise controls on food safety. Controls are effectively targeted on the basis of risk analyses and essential consumer concerns. Risk analyses are carried out in consultation with several bodies. The signals sent to the Economic Inspectorate reflect the essential concerns of consumers and stakeholders. The Economic Inspectorate publishes a very detailed annual report on all actions carried out, including controls on food products. This report is a good tool for assessing the field work of the Economic Inspectorate officers. The report on activities for 2014 was published very recently. I shall keep a copy of this report at your disposal. If controls are better targeted, it goes without saying that monitoring will be more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 6091 expires. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 6115 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u53	Mr Minister, at the end of last year the Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents, the BIV, came into discord, after a Panorama portage showed that there was a conflict of interests between the BIV, a public-law professional corporation, and the Confederation of Real Estate Professionals Flanders, the CIB Flanders, a commercial company and a trade union of about a third of all brokers. At the top of the CIB we find several people who are also at the BIV. The Belgian Competition Authority has therefore launched an investigation into this alleged conflict of interest at the beginning of this year. Has that investigation been completed yet? What are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u54	Mr Klaps, the Belgian Competition Authority informed me on your question that the investigation concerning BIV and CIB has not yet been completed. The Auditorate to the Belgian Competition Authority is bound by a legal obligation of professional secrecy and cannot therefore comment further on that ongoing investigation, even to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I was afraid of it, but I wanted to check the status anyway. One never knows if there is movement in the file in the meantime. I'm waiting for the results of the investigation. If there is an effective conflict of interest, then we need to look at it thoroughly and act where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u56	Sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u57	Mr Minister, the Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents provides for a compulsory collective BA insurance policy from 1 January 2016. Real estate agents with the maturity date of their current policy 31 December 2015 should have canceled it by 30 September last. The collective insurance premium will be included in the BIV contribution and, according to my information, will be between EUR 340 and 370. The advantage of the obligation would be a strong administrative simplification, saving many hours of work. This would make the BA insurance cheaper for real estate agents. However, there have been reservations on the subject and not everyone is convinced of the cheaper policy. Can you tell me if the compulsory collective BA insurance introduced by the BIV is an effective financial improvement for real estate agents? Does the collective policy provide legal aid? In your opinion, is the general coverage of compulsory insurance sufficient for the profession of real estate agent? Do you not find the compulsory collective insurance through membership of the BIV an attack on the freedom of choice of the brokers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u58	Mr President, my fellow Members, compulsory insurance gives more certainty to consumers in their relationship with real estate agents. In this way, they are sure that the debtor/broker is solvent when a claim arises. In addition, every broker is insured for the same activity and amounts, which are estimated sufficiently high by the association. Secondly, anyone can find the insurance policy on the BIV website. Thirdly, the general coverage corresponds to what is included in the BIV's doctrine of obligations. Fourthly, and finally, this cannot pose a problem, all the more so because it is intended to provide consumers with greater security. In addition, this reduces the administrative burden on brokers, who are no longer required to look for an insurer or to compare offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find the last point of your answer somewhat curious. If there is someone who can be involved in comparing insurance policies, or people who are dealing with real estate, usually combined with insurance. This is an additional cause for concern, because those brokers who carry out insurance business themselves, by removing commissions to themselves, tend to get very favourable conditions for these policies. That advantage falls away from compulsory insurance. There are arguments for both points of view. If the policy is in place, we must keep an eye on whether the system works as well as it is proposed. I think that, in a year's time, we should evaluate the state of play. I will certainly keep an eye on this dossier with you, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u60	Mr President, Minister, it is true that you have not been Minister of Economy for ten years, but I come to tell you that I am tired of the issue of liability insurance for cars. Since the abandonment of the bonus-malus system, I have had to file a hundred questions on the subject with successive ministers without obtaining any effect. I'm tired, but I'm holding on! The solutions provided were only sparadraps on a growing problem. Insurers are still in the process of excluding motorists for unjustifiable reasons: almost 30,000 last year, according to the latest figures put forward by the Bureau de Tarification. I don't want to hear any more speeches; I want the government to act! Two weeks ago, Test-Achats pointed to the fact that car segmentation continued to increase without motivation, whether you lived in a particular neighbourhood. Minister, when is a bill on the table? You're announcing one, but we don't see anything coming. In any case, we never see anything coming in terms of consumer protection. If you do not have the courage or willingness to write one, many proposals have been put forward. They are also on the agenda this afternoon. Have the courage to work with parliamentarians! We're not serving anything. We also have legislative power. Work with us! We are ready to work with you on this. When is a bill, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, first of all, I would like to remind you that the statutory system of compulsory bonuses has been abolished almost eleven years ago, while I have been the Minister of Economy and Consumer Affairs for only a year. You have already pointed out that. However, I did not remain inactive during this year. Significant progress has already been made. I have had an exchange of views with various sectors and organizations with which I have sought constructive solutions. A draft bill is now on the table in my cabinet. This project will still have to be the subject of a concertation which, both for you and your party and for myself, is very important. In doing so, I will take into account, inter alia, the recommendations that the Insurance Commission has already made in the past. The operation of the Common Car Guarantee Fund will also be improved. I hope you're now more optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u62	Mr Minister, I hope that, in preparing the preliminary draft, the Insurance Commission was not the only one to be consulted. Indeed, it is no longer unanimous on the side of the Consumer Protection SPF which has worked on this issue for years, in particular with Test-Achats. The next debate seems to reassure me. Having said that, I did not have the chance to read the bill. I hope you pass it on to me. I'll be totally reassured when you reintroduce the principle of bonus-malus, even if you haven't mentioned it. I therefore look forward to this debate. Do not hesitate to send me your preliminary draft, if you would like to get some sensible comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I tabled this question on 1 September, and since then the Committee on the Economy has been fortunately working on this subject. It's October 20th. It's a bit difficult to work this way! Everyone knows the problem of milk and pig products. Since the question was tabled, a series of things have been done both at European level and at the level of large-scale distribution. But crises follow on and no clear solution is found. An agreement has been reached at Belgian level between large-scale distribution and producers, but the whole agri-food sector is not represented. This is where the majority of milk is processed and consumed. Minister, you have a tool, which I very much value, the Awards Observatory. It is the result of a bill that I tabled and that was finally taken over by the government. This tool can and should usefully serve the government and parliament, in particular through its analyses. It examines the margins of all actors, from producer to final consumer, through a series of speakers who are very absent from this debate, including the agri-food sector. Would you not take the price observatory and ask it for fine analyses? The law provides that the government has policy options if it appears that the margins are too high for either sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, we have indeed found a solution in collaboration with many partners with regard to the issues addressed in your question. I am, of course, open to reflection on the use of the Price Observatory. Indeed, it is an interesting but also appropriate instrument. You should know that the SPF Economy has been based on the studies carried out by the Observatory in order to find a solution to the problems you have raised. So I am prepared to ask him other questions, as you have suggested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u65	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. So you just have to write him a letter in which you ask him to carry out an analysis which can be used in the context of the parliamentary debate, but also, perhaps, to find structural solutions at Belgian level; this should also take place at European level, but this is not yet the case. I will return to you once the study you have requested has been carried out by the Price Observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u66	Mr President, Minister, with an innovation bonus it is possible for employers to reward their employees for their innovative, creative ideas. This stimulates innovation in companies. The premium was originally introduced for one year, in particular 2006, but has been renewed ever since. It was recently renewed by the Programme Act until 2017. I therefore thought it was a good time to look back at how the premium has evolved. In order to pay out the innovation premium, the employer must first submit a project application to the FPS Economy. The FPS Economy analyses whether it effectively incorporates innovative aspects. These must be innovations in the normal business activity that can also be realised. So it should not be just about virtual ideas. The premium itself is limited to a maximum of one month's wage, not insignificant, and is granted to a maximum of 10% of the employees, i.e. not to the whole company. I'd like to know the evolution over the past few years. How has the system evolved over the years? Could you give me an overview of the number of applications submitted and the number of approved and unapproved project applications over the years, as well as the total amount paid for innovation grants? What is the distribution across sectors? That's also useful to know. How many of the approved applications were covered by the maximum amount of the premium? What about its spread? For whom were the premiums of the approved applications intended, for individual employees or for several employees per company? On the basis of these elements, I will be able to make an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u67	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, we have looked into this for you, and we have sacrificed our summer to it. All crazy on a stick, I'll give you the table right away. An increasing trend in the use of innovation premiums is observed. In 2014, the number of companies that awarded these premiums was more than 50% higher than in 2006. On the other hand, the number of applications is often stable. I will give you an overview in a moment on which the evolution of the various parameters has been worked out in detail. I do not think it is intended to explain that table orally. You asked about the table, and you get it. I assume you will study them with the other members. The main sectors using these measures since the beginning are the chemical industry, 19.1 %, the manufacture of machinery and equipment, 11.6 %, the manufacture and assembly of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, 7.6 %, the financial services, excluding insurance and pension funds, 7.1 %, and the pharmaceutical industry, 6.3 %. At present, it is not possible to draw up statistics indicating how many people the maximum amount was applied for. The maximum amount of the innovation premium depends on the beneficiary's gross monthly wage. I can tell you the evolution of the average amount of the innovation premium per employee: this went from EUR 908 in 2006 to EUR 2 057 in 2014. In 2014, 44% of approved applications led to the payment of a premium for an individual employee, compared with 56% for several employees. We therefore notice a shift from applications for an individual employee to applications for multiple employees. As I have already said, Mr Vercamer will receive my personal copy of the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u68	Let me say for all other members that the figures will also be posted on the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I will look at the table with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u70	I'm counting on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u71	Minister, this question was addressed to Minister Van Overtveldt, but I assume you will answer it with equal pleasure and enthusiasm. The phenomenon of invoicing fraud, whereby crooked figures intercept the invoice of, for example, contractors to their customers, change the account number into their own number and forward the changed invoice to the customer, is no doubt known to you. That unsuspectingly pays his bill, but in reality transfers money to the criminal and is later confronted with notices from the real contractor. Several cases are known. Apparently, it's very difficult to recover that money. The banks indicate that no check is made on the accuracy of the combination of the account number and the beneficiary's name and address details. One can also switch to digital invoicing. The government's working on this, too. Theo Francken and Alexander De Croo take the lead in this, but that is a long-term solution for the big companies that can carry the investment. In the short term, however, with regard to the responsibility of the banks, we should not wait so long. Have you or your predecessor already discussed the issue with the financial sector? What is the result of that? In the short term, I see a possibility in a very small intervention, in particular the creation of a central account book, of course only opt-in. Contractors may register voluntarily, including the name and address of the account holder for each account. If the invoice is paid via online banking and the account number is entered, the name will appear and you will see if you are actually transferring it to the right person. That is a very simple facility for consumers to check whether they are transferring to the right person. Are certain legal or technical arguments preventing the creation of such a solution? Do you see any other ways to solve the problem? Of course, I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u72	Mr Dedecker, your question requires a very detailed answer. Firstly, there has been no specific consultation. Secondly, in the implementation of the European Payment Services Directive, book VII "Payment and credit services' of the Economic Law Code provides that bank transfers are deemed to be executed correctly if they are carried out in accordance with the unique identifier. The unique identifier "I refer to Article I.9, 12° of the Code of Economic Law " must be contractually agreed and cannot be imposed by the legislator. The bank determines in its general terms and conditions that the identifier is the account number. In other words, the transfer is deemed to be executed correctly if the bank transfers to the account number specified by the customer. Therefore, the legislator should not impose on the payment service provider the obligation to systematically verify that the beneficiary's name corresponds perfectly to the IBAN account number. The payment service providers have therefore made no mistake a priori; they will be able to be held accountable if some of their customers have reported fraud with the same IBAN number and no action has been taken to determine whether there was fraud. In such a case, consumers can rely on Article 1382 of the Civil Code, which states that the error or damage as well as the causal link must be established. According to Febelfin, the proposal to introduce a central account book with millions of online consultations a day seems to raise a lot of questions, both technically and legally, which makes its feasibility uncertain. Moreover, it is not clear to what extent the costs would outweigh the benefits. Moreover, this should be looked at at a European level in the context of the European payment area. It is sufficient that the swindler uses an account number outside Belgium to circumvent a possible Belgian central account book. Organising an opt-in process for private beneficiaries, around 14 million current accounts, would be particularly cumbersome, according to Febelfin. Febelfin states that systematic automatic checks of conformity between the account name and the beneficiary's name are not feasible in practice. Banks are required to process millions of transfers daily and transfer them to the beneficiary's account within the EU within one day. The problem with a name is that there are often different writing methods, per language, abbreviations, write errors and nicknames, so that an automatic check would not work; there are too many false positives. On the other hand, it should be noted that before the entry into force of European legislation, transposed into the Payment Services Act and now included in Book VII of the Economic Law Code, it was accepted in the case-law that a bank is required to verify the conformity of the beneficiary's name and the account number if the payer and the payee have their account with the same payment service provider and if they have their account with a different payment service provider and the amount of the payment transaction exceeds EUR 10 000. This is based mainly on the provision in the interbank UCV regulation, which, in the case of transfer orders exceeding EUR 10 000, must always be checked whether the account number and the name refer to the same person. According to the caselaw, a breach of those interbank arrangements was proof of the bank's carelessness. In other words, a certain control is possible. In any case, the bank may be expected to act carefully. In this sense, it may be useful to discuss with the banking sector what is possible in line with previous interbank arrangements. Perhaps you can read my note again later, but I hope that I have answered your question in sufficient detail, with all the additional references, including to the case law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I do think, however, that the input you have received from Febelfin.... is not about yourself................................................................................................................................................. It is true that a bank cannot be asked to check every name and account number. That's not legally possible here. That is precisely why the explicit demand for a voluntary system whereby the bank does not control it itself, but at least provides the tools and facilities for that purpose to the customer. At present, the customer has no possibility to verify that the unique identification, the IBAN number, is correct. Hence the demand for a voluntary system, in which the sender of invoices can alert his customers to check that the account number belongs to him. I do not think there is a legal problem with such possibilities. Setting up such a database, which is often questioned, is not a major challenge. There are plenty of examples that indicate that it can be done. A cost-benefit analysis is then requested. The problem is that the cost of such a system will be at the bank, while the benefits will be generated by the cost saved by the victims. They're concentrated on a number of duped and not on the couch. The costs and benefits therefore lie with two different groups, which, of course, is a problem. However, I believe that, as politicians, we must assume our social responsibility to prevent people from becoming victims of malicious practices, without having tools in their hands to control their affairs. There is a certain responsibility there, and I therefore call on you to continue discussions with the financial sector with a view to finding a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u74	Today, Minister, there is a strong commitment to electronic payments, with all the advantages of this: efficiency, security, anti-money laundering, etc. Nevertheless, electronic payments transactions do not always proceed as planned. Examples of this are the problems that have occurred on several peak days during the Christmas period and the recent problems that caused traders to spend almost a week without paying any sums, which, of course, has seriously compromised their liquidity. Through the SEPA Regulation, Europe is trying to bring more competition, choice and transparency to the payment market. However, we note that Worldline is a quasi-monopolist in our country in the field of payment transactions. What is the state of play in that market? Can you give me figures on the distribution of the Belgian market of transaction processors, to get a bit of clarity in Worldline's quasi-monopoly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u75	Colleague, there are currently no figures of the market shares of the various payment card processors available at the National Bank of Belgium, but it is clear that Worldline has the vast market share. Worldline, formerly Banksys, used to have a quasi-monopoly and still occupies a dominant position in the market for the processing of card payments in Belgium. However, the new European Regulation of April 2015 on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions aims to increase competition between the different parties involved in card payments. I hope my brief answer is complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I find it a little strange that no figures are available. I do not blame you personally for this, for the sake of clarity, but certainly in this context, the figures would be useful in getting a look at the problem. I understand that there are negotiations between Worldline and a number of self-employed organisations about possible compensation for problems. I shall, of course, come back to that later, when we will have a little more insight into it. A firm with such a high market share must certainly be reliable. We will not get the cash payments down if such problems continue to occur systematically. Peak moments are perfectly predictable. We must be able to prepare for this. A technical breakdown is always possible, but it should never drag on for a week. There are really some arguments on the table that Worldline will have to give a decent answer, but we are still waiting for the outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u77	Minister, I have questioned you about this before. In your policy statement, you stated that you and the professional associations would examine to what extent the obligations on insurance intermediaries for the information they are required to provide to their clients could be more proportionate. I have just referred to the administrative obligations. You said that the statute and recognition requirements of insurance intermediaries would be refined on the basis of the European Insurance Mediation Directive, which was currently being negotiated at European level. Following negotiations with the sector, you have confirmed your willingness to prepare a draft law on this subject as soon as there is clarity on the final texts of the European Insurance Mediation Directive. On 30 July 2015, an agreement was reached on that Directive, the Insurance Distribution Directive. So there is now clarity about its content. At the same time, however, the sector continues to clearly state that the administrative burden is a huge problem in practice. Mr. Secretary, can you give me an update? Where are we at Belgian level? How will we apply this new code of conduct and make it more proportionate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u78	Mr President, discussions with professional associations have begun to examine the extent to which the principle of proportionality could be applied to the implementation of the rules of conduct by insurance intermediaries, without waiting for the finalisation of the European directive on insurance distribution. During these consultations a consensus could already be reached on a number of issues, including data retention by service providers, information on costs and associated charges, for which a draft FSMA regulation is in the final phase, as well as on certain aspects of the statute of insurance agent. So that all looks pretty good, but always sticking to wood, because the prices are only distributed at the end. Once this Insurance Distribution Directive is published in the Official Journal of the European Union and negotiations with the sector are completed, I will take the necessary initiatives for the transposition of the Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u79	Minister, I am pleased that great progress is being made in the consultations. That is indeed necessary. I can only continue to call on you to work, with priority, on a much-needed solution for the sector in order to reduce, where possible, the administrative burden. There are, of course, a number of European obligations. There is the obligation to provide information, which you have just referred to in the question on hospitalisation insurance. In a number of cases that is certainly right, but sometimes absolutely not. However, we were far beyond a year ago when I questioned you about this in plenary. I am therefore looking forward to a final solution in the relatively short term, which I will examine closely. Then I will inform you of any comments I may have.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u80	Mr President, Minister, I did not ask for my question to be put in the Committee on Business, although I would like to come here. That's not the problem. However, I put my first question on this matter in the Committee on Health. I also refer to that question in my current question. The question is about the ban on solar banks. In March 2015, I asked that question to your colleague, Minister De Block. I have to say that this is a ban on commercial use and certainly not on home use or on medical prescription. To that question, Minister De Block replied that an extension of the ban, which already applies to under 18-year-olds, to a general ban is not in question. After all, there would be no evidence of the harmful effects of solariums on the development of skin cancer. Moreover, home use could not be addressed, so that the problems would persist. I went to the literature once. The argument of home use was already contradicted in my previous reply. Home use is estimated at about 4%. It is therefore clear that home use is a marginal phenomenon compared to the use in solar banks. As I pointed out in my reply, I have meanwhile studied the recent scientific literature on the causal link between solar banks and skin cancer, as Minister De Block asked me. I have found some interesting studies, of which I have given an overview here. It's not some junk literature, it's a 2012 BMJ meta analysis which clearly shows that once using the solarium increases the risk of a melanoma by 20 % and even by 42 % when used regularly. What is also particularly problematic is the finding that solar sofa use under the age of thirty-five increases the risk of a melanoma by 87%. Another BMJ meta-analysis from the same year also found an increase in the risk of skin cancer. You can read the numbers. There is no doubt that the carcinogenic effect of solar banks has been scientifically proven. On the basis of an IARC report, the WHO has placed solar banks in category 1 of the cancer agents. I also found a recent JAMA review, which was published in 2014. This even isolates the solar bank component to which Minister De Block doubted and clearly points out the harmful effects, corrected for other risk factors, which so questioned Mrs De Block. In France, however, recent studies have been taken into account. As a result, a ban on solar banks was recently issued there. The relevant law has just been passed by the Senate. In Belgium, the number of skin cancers is high. That was in the newspaper today and was demonstrated by Lieven Annemans. It concerns some 30 000 skin cancers in 2012, of which 2 511 melanomas, which is the most aggressive and dangerous form. In particular, we are seeing a rapid evolution in young women and on the hull, which is very suspicious and clearly shows that the solarium is a harmful component in this area. I have the following questions, Minister. Did you look at the results of that study? Are you considering following France's example and moving towards a total ban on solariums, whether gradually or not, or, for example, raising the age limit in the light of the latest findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to your first question, Mr Van Camp, I can answer that several studies have shown that there is a direct link between the use of solar banks and the increase in the risk of skin cancer. From the study to which you refer, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, my administration does not have the detailed results. Maybe that wasn't properly checked. You might be able to get us that study so that the administration can study them more closely. Secondly, the Belgian sector of solar banks and manufacturers of solar banks have committed themselves to continuing to comply with their responsibilities and obligations under the legislation. When my administration finds that this is not the case, further action will be taken, such as the preparation of a report, a proposal for a transaction, an out-of-use operation, etc. The consultations did not call for a general ban on the operation of solar banks. I do not know whether you are in favour of this, but we are not, at least that is not the finality of the consultation. Consumers shall be informed of the potential risks associated with the use of a solarium when going to a solarium centre. Information is also included in the product and user manual when purchasing a solarium for your own use. In addition, continuous sensitisation of the UV radiation remains an important point, so that the consumer can make an informed decision about the use of a solarium. It is a serious matter and we are trying, through consultation with the sector, to achieve strict regulation or, even better, a strict code of conduct, as has just been mentioned. The use of a solarium is not permitted for minors and the skin type, intensity of exposure and so on must be taken into account. Compliance with these different rules creates a framework within which further work can be carried out. I understand that the High Health Council will also make its views known. It is planned that this will be done during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you take this matter seriously. I'll be happy to get you the requested one. I have also tabled a written question in order to make a concrete assessment of compliance with the commitment of the sector. They have certain obligations to comply with and we know that this often does not happen in practice. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the solar banks that work with coins, and there are a lot of them. There there is no control of the skin type at all and no information is provided. In addition, solar banks in the street image make people more inclined not to see the harmful effects. Of course, solar banks will not argue against their own sector and discourage people from going to the solarium. I've never heard the story of someone with a pale skin type sent home by the solarium centre with the message that it would be harmful to him or her. The answer to my written question will shed some light on that. So far as the items included in the law are concerned, such as the age limit of 18 years. Finally, I refer to recent reviews which show that, for example, in minus thirty-five year olds, the risk of melanoma already increases by 87 %. I'll be waiting for the report from the Supreme Health Council. I hope that it recognises that the age limit must be raised and that something must be done about the solar banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u83	Mr President, Minister, the legislation on the indication of the price of goods and services is no longer clear: any company offering goods or services must indicate the price in writing, in a readable, apparent and unambiguous manner. The objective of this measure is to enable the consumer to purchase a product or service with full knowledge of the facts. Price labelling can be done on the product itself, on a sign, an advertisement or in a display window, which is necessary in order to avoid any doubt as to the identification of the product and to avoid disputes. However, this logic of price readability and transparency does not currently apply at the time of cash flow. In most commercial areas, consumers do not have real-time access to the rates applied, as the equipment at the cash register does not necessarily have a dual display (one screen directed to the cashier, the other to the customer). Thus, in the event of an encoding error, only the most attentive customers with the cash ticket control reflex detect the differences between the advertised price and the price scanned in cash. At a time when the vast majority of businesses are using new technologies in price recording and encoding, this type of error is not uncommon. These differences therefore constitute a potentially significant loss of money for the uninformed consumer, and a waste of time with more or less complex procedures in case of reimbursement for the trade which has to make the corrections after receipt. Minister, would real-time access to cash-coded prices not strengthen the protection of consumers who, in the event of an error, should not engage in a sometimes complex procedure of refunding an unduly paid amount? Are there incentives to encourage traders to use double-display cash registers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out, the legislation on price indications requires the price to be displayed so that it is apparent and unambiguous. The point you raise relates to the difference that may exist between the price shown in the radius and the price scanned in the cash register. In this case, there is indeed an infringement of the legislation between market practices and consumer protection in relation to price indication. I find that, in many large areas, the customer is able to track the price encoding of the products at the caisse. However, making a double screen mandatory would result in a significant additional cost to many small traders. The Economic Inspectorate shall continuously carry out an effective monitoring of the indication of prices. For example, in 2014, it carried out 2,435 inspections in various sectors, including distribution. This control certainly has a deterrent effect, which probably explains why, this year, it has received only 29 complaints about price indications in the distribution sector. As for the consumer, it is important to have a clear and intelligible cashier's ticket. It is this ticket that offers him the possibility to control his expenses afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u85	Mr President, thank you for your answer. However, the problem is that even after checking the cashier ticket afterwards, the consumer remains a victim. Thus, when he wants to be reimbursed by showing the cashier the error on his cashier's ticket, he is de facto bound to the store. In fact, sometimes you don't pay back, you offer a gift certificate, etc. He is necessarily linked to this trade and does not receive his money, whereas the error is not attributable to him. I understand that small businesses cannot be forced to have a double display box, but at the moment there are still big brands, clothing stores, etc. which do not have a double display body. That is the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u86	Minister, I am sure you know my passion for Auvibel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u87	Yeah, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u88	In the written preparation of my question, I added your answer to my previous question. I then questioned you more specifically about the inclusion of copies from illegal sources for the calculation of the Auvibel levies to compensate for the damage caused by the legal home copy. I had then referred to the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 April 2014, which shows that they should clearly not be counted, contrary to what happened earlier. You then referred to this as a progressive understanding of the scope. I can, of course, go along with that. This is an additional tightening up by the European Court of Justice. You followed my reasoning that the injury calculation should be reduced and thus the rates of the levy. That hasn't happened since 2014. That was not so long ago, of course, but the Netherlands is a lot faster. Following the Court's ruling, a generic tariff reduction of 30% was applied. This was a complete reform of tariffs, representing a fall of 30%. Even more, in the last question of Profacts about the copying behavior commissioned by Auvibel, they asked about the source used to collect works. However, they did not ask for the source of the works of which a copy was made. That's slightly different. The distinction between legal and illegal free downloads is not made either, which I find questionable. In my view, the fact that the study did not result in a proposal to reduce the rates compared to those determined on the basis of the previous studies is indicative. The previous studies even explicitly did not distinguish between legal and illegal free downloads. If a new study does not come to a reduction in the rate, then questions can be asked as to the seriousness of the study. This reinforces the doubts about the seriousness of the methodology. I would like to refer again to the Netherlands. I therefore have two questions. When will you charge the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 April 2014 in Belgium and therefore apply a tariff reduction? What is the estimated size of the rate reduction to be made in Belgium? What steps should you take and how do you plan to do this? Furthermore, since the Padawan judgment, it is also clear that no charge is due for professional use. The discussion of my bill on this matter in committee has been suspended pending a solution via KB. Your cabinet has taken the initiative to do so and has restarted the consultation through the advisory committee. Some nice steps have already been taken there. Can you confirm that the exemption or reimbursement for professional users will not be offset by a tariff increase for the non-professional users, given the unjustified inclusion of professional use in the budgeted damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u89	Mr Minister, before I let you answer, I have a practical question. I just got a call for an urgent meeting with a view to a bill. The only questions that remain on the agenda are those of Mr Dedecker. Can I apologize? I hope you don't get into a big fight with Mr. Dedecker about the other answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u90	Mr President, in view of the late hour, could I perhaps give Mr Dedecker the prepared answers to his questions? We can then consider all the questions put by Mr Dedecker to be answered. I will answer this question orally very quickly. Mr Dedecker, first of all, I am currently preparing a draft law which amends Articles XI.229 and XI.235 of the Code of Economic Law on private copying and reproduction in order to create a complete parallelism between the scope of the exception and that of the remuneration. In accordance with European case law, it is thus determined with 100% clarity that reproductions which are not covered by the exceptions cannot be collected. I believe that a concrete adjustment of the rates as in the Netherlands, the 30% to which you refer, can be taken into account in an overall assessment of the rates in the light of the damage caused to rightholders. Secondly, within the Advisory Committee, a system of reimbursement and exemption from remuneration in favour of professional users was examined. There is no provision for an increase in the rate. With regard to Mr Dedecker's other questions, Mr President, I will ask my colleagues to give you the answers I have formulated in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u91	Mr President, may I briefly repeat on one point? Mr Minister, you have indeed answered a number of questions in writing, for which I would like to thank you. I notice that in one of those answers you simply reflect Auvibel's answer. Auvibel explicitly states that it must be stressed that the evolution of the income of rightholders has been falling over the last two decades and that the compensation for the home copy is not sufficient to cover the damage caused by copying from illegal sources. That is explicitly the intention. That's exactly why I'm asking that question. The European Court has explicitly stated that this revenue from the Auvibel levy does not serve to address the damage caused by copying from illegal sources. Illegal copies must be combated, of course; I support you in your fight against illegal downloading, but we really cannot assume that we will be able to compensate for this damage with the Auvibel tax. I look forward to your draft law which brings the scope into line with the recent ruling of the European Court of Justice. I believe that we can take a number of nice steps in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-10-20-54-commissie-ic243x.u92	The other questions put by Mr Dedecker, with Nos 6781, 6805 and 6872, are therefore converted into written questions. Mr Dedecker, you will receive the answers immediately so that you can respond to them. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answers.
