ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u1	Madam President, I shall be brief. This meeting will take some time, and some of my fellow Members would like to go to the plenary session on Greece. The Godetia has sailed for humanitarian reasons. A few weeks ago, my fellow Members asked questions about the usefulness and necessity of this commitment. No one doubts that the Godetia is doing a good job. About the cost of the whole story little or no conclusion has been given, except in the press. We know it's not a cheap operation. That's what we're willing to do. Even though some of the costs are borne by the international community, a substantial part is still borne by us and in particular by your already heavily charged budget, Minister. You had to look in your budget for alternatives to get the whole operation funded. You have been told in the press that you would save on so-called training operations. What training operations are we talking about? Are they training operations in the component of the Navy or in general? Is it even appropriate for an army to shiver on training operations? What training operations can we afford to skip?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in mid-May, the Navy ship Godetia left Zeebrugge to participate in Triton, the European mission against trafficking in human beings in the Mediterranean as of 24 May. Last week the mission for the Godetia was completed and the ship returned to the base at Zeebrugge. Meanwhile, over the last few weeks, we have read a lot of positive reports in the newspapers about the work of the military in the Mediterranean. What's next? We read in the press that the frigate has been prepared to participate in a military mission. How many refugees have been taken out of the water by the Godetia so far? How many refugees have received medical treatment? How is cooperation with the Italian authorities going?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken a number of times on this subject not only in Parliament but also in the media. But I am certainly prepared to be as complete as possible in my answer. As stated earlier, the mission of the Godetia will not be extended. It is clear that everyone contributes as requested by Frontex. For us, the question was to stay until 4 July 2015. That's what happened. The Godetia has not yet arrived in Zeebrugge as Mr Yüksel says, but is on its way home and will normally arrive in Zeebrugge this Sunday. In the second semester the Godetia will be deployed as a staff ship of a NATO Response Force flottielje. That was a deal. Meanwhile, around 1650 people were rescued from unsafe ships. A few dozen refugees needed medical attention. Cooperation with the Italian authorities was excellent. There were no incidents when the refugees were transferred to shore. As far as we can ascertain, the handling has been done correctly and the information from our people has been passed on to the Italian authorities. After all, they first flew out to take photocopiers and make possible identification of human smugglers. We can therefore assume that the authorities will also ensure that this is followed up. In order to cover the use of the Godetia budget, the Navy has had to compensate 2000 man-days internally. The other costs for the deployment of the Godetia are covered by additional funding from Frontex. The internal compensation has been done by the deployment of a smaller than planned vessel for a training campaign in the months of May and June 2015. By the way, I have to say that there is no such thing as training. Either we do training or surgery. Of course, surgery can also be a training exercise. For example, in its trip to the Mediterranean Sea in the Bay of Biscay, the Godetia participated in a search and rescue operation in connection with a fishing chip there. These are also valuable trainings carried out during the operations. A first internal compensation was therefore a smaller ship in June 2015. Secondly, the original task of the Godetia for this year, in this case the command ship for the NATO Response flottielje, starts a bit later, saving some man days. These adjustments to the Navy's sailing programme therefore have no significant impact on the training and have also allowed me to offer the Godetia quickly to contribute to the operations in the Mediterranean. There has also been interest shown by Frontex. Frontex has also requested and agreed to be able to board with the international press. Our old 50-year-old lady has actually done a very good job, including a publisher, in connection with the campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember one of your remarks in the margins of that press conference very well. You continue to believe in our Navy. There's a newspaper that picked that up. I think you were quite right to act there. Then why am I saying that? I do not know whether my fellow Members have read the report they have received from the Belgian Shipowners' Association. There is a major problem with piracy in East and West Africa. I'd say East and West Flanders, but it's East and West Africa. I'm already in July 11th mode. Minister, this piracy is also the reason why I and you must continue to have the courage to use our naval force. Thank you for the confidence you have in this component.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If the light is greened internationally, we will, of course...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u6	(no micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u7	We will, of course, also contribute our share. The Godetia has indeed done good work on the ground and on the image of the Navy. Mr Penris, I will reassure you, we will reassure you. I did not see you two weeks ago on Navy Days in Zeebrugge, but the Minister and a number of fellow Members were there. The Navy will have an important place in the future of our defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u8	Mr Penris was not present, but he received the report from the Belgian Redersvereniging. Never heard of it, but good. I'm interested right away, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I believe that the voluntary service is a good and commendable initiative, although the trade union ACOD claims that it is not a success because, according to them, three-quarters of the people who are registered as volunteers do not complete their training. The ACOD also claims to have predicted this. Candidate-milicians would only learn to be military and handle weapons, but would not acquire professional skills. According to ACOD, for example, they cannot become a mechanic or obtain a driving licence, and the experience they gain in that year is not interesting for the regular private labour market. Minister, I would like to discuss the ACOD figures with you. I dispute their claims. How do you evaluate the voluntary service initiative? Can you describe the actual figures relating to the voluntary military service? What conclusions do you draw from this? Is the status of the voluntary million sufficiently attractive? How can you possibly give an impetus to the uninteresting status in itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u10	Madam President, Mr Penris, first of all I would like to refer to my detailed reply in the committee of 10 March 2015 to Question No 1, by Mr Penris. Mr Pirlot's 2792 of 6 March 2015. Nevertheless, I will give you the most important elements, not least because Mr Pirlot said in his reply that it is always pleasant for him to spend almost the whole day in my vicinity, but all of this aside. When we talk about recruitment or the EVMI status, we see that it attracts very few applicants. A total of 840 places were opened for 2010 to 2014. Of these, 348 soldiers were recruited. Those are the numbers. That's not much. On March 10, there were 21 soldiers in the EVMI statute active in Defense, 160 soldiers were given a different statute, 10 left Defense after the end of their term and 201 soldiers left Defense prematurely. So this is not a great success. I said at the time that this is not where we need to look for the future. You know that the amendment of the statutes will not take place from today to tomorrow. This will come up, but at least I have no intention of putting much more energy into it. It is present, but we note that the results are limited. I can only say that I am now working, together with my staff and with the Defense Department, on a complete review of the career. Only in this way will we find a solution for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u11	Would it not be useful, Minister, to give the candidate soldiers who make use of this statute an education that can be taken into account in civil life?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u12	Mr Penris, as I said, they have the opportunity to move on to another statute where there are such possibilities. Of course, it is not the case that a voluntary status in the Defense Department should therefore guarantee that Defence will provide technical training for its people. Defence must form part of its needs, respect for all social backgrounds and so on. It is important that we implement reforms based on needs, as every modern company does. If there are social advantages to this, then that is a good thing, but that should not be the first intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u13	Mr Minister, during an in-depth debate held at the Defence Committee on 10 June, you announced that there were Iraqi soldiers trained by Belgian instructors, Iraqis of all religious denominations. You also replied that it was impossible for you, under the Belgian law on the protection of privacy, to keep this data on people who pass through the hands of our forces and therefore to reveal in the parliamentary chamber their religious confession. We know that one of the main political problems that explains not only the implantation but also the maintenance of Daesh in Iraq is the ostracism against the Sunni minority in the head of the Iraqi Shiite power. One of the structural solutions to this conflict is the systematic integration of Sunni Iraqi citizens at the heart of the Iraqi state apparatus and in particular of the army. Without being able to give us the distribution of the Iraqi soldiers passed through the hands of Belgian instructors for each confession – Shiite, Sunni, Kurdish, Christian,... – can you give me the total number, so far? Can you also clarify to me whether special attention has been paid by Defence to ensure that the reception of Sunni military candidates is privileged? If so, by what method?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u14	Mr Hellings, I think this is the fifth time I have answered this question! First of all, I would like to point out that Belgium does not train Iraqi soldiers in the context of Operation Desert Falcon, but in the context of Operation Phoenix Vaillant. There is indeed no register of the religious confession of the Iraqi military who are formed by the international coalition against Daesh. The Belgian military has trained about 1,500 Iraqi military personnel since the beginning of their deployment and confirms through their contacts with recruits that they come from different religious or ethnic denominations. I was able to see this for myself when I went to Baghdad. The international convention has little influence on the process of recruiting Iraqi military personnel, but there are initiatives in other training centres to train Sunni recruits to fight Daesh in their area of influence. Belgium is focusing its efforts on Baghdad and is therefore not participating in this additional effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u15	Minister, thank you. I was present during the debate on this issue and I understand your need to comply with the Privacy Act. The question I ask again here is for a good reason: the heart of the problem, namely the confrontation between the Shiites and the Sunnis in Iraq, is the basis for the emergence, sustenance and growth of Daesh in Iraq. It is therefore by dealing with this problem, through military but also political means, that we will be able to resolve the crisis in Iraq. I hear the operation is called Phoenix Vaillant. The next time I ask a question, I will use the exact term. I also hear how little influence you have on the choice made by the Iraqi army for its recruits. The Iraqi army is in charge of her home. However, if Belgium wants to make a difference on this issue, we must be able to train more Sunni soldiers than Shiites, since that is where the deficit lies. When you say we're focusing on Baghdad, the capital is, from what I've read, in the hands of the Shiites, not Sunnis. It is therefore clear that if there were, today, more Sunnis in the state apparatus and in the army, much of the problem would be solved. Even if you cannot give me the distribution between these two confessions, I encourage you to give one way or another priority to the formation of the Sunnis who must have the place they deserve in the army, as in the state apparatus in general, according to their proportion in the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u16	Minister, a few weeks ago, you leaked to the press that you intend to reshuffle the army. Smaller and quick-to-use battle groups of approximately 1 200 men would be formed. In these battle groups all parts of the land component would be found, which makes them multidisciplinary groups that can be used in all situations. I read in the press that there is very little support for this by the army. I therefore have a few questions for you to clarify. Can you explain to me exactly what the plans are for the reform of the land component? What implications will the reform have on the army's budget? What deadline do you want to implement the reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u17	Mr Klaps, the plans for the future of the land component will depend on the discussions currently taking place in the interkabinets working group and then in the nuclear cabinet and the government. The Working Group is preparing the decisions to be taken by the Council of Ministers for the future of Defence and will form the basis for the Strategic Plan 2015-2030 for Defence. The interviews in the Interkabinets Working Group are based on my strategic vision note, which I proposed to the nuclear cabinet on 8 May 2015. In that note I made an effective proposal on the level of ambition within the Capacitarian Dimension Land based on interweapon battle groups and interweapon companies. This is based on concepts that have been applied for some time in the French Defence Department, but are now also beginning to become part of the Belgian Defence Department. The actual implementation of that level of ambition will depend, in addition to the discussions in the IJUs and the decisions of the nuclear cabinet, on the internal discussions at Defence. Today, therefore, it is very difficult to provide further explanations. However, take it from me that, if we want an employable defence, it is important to get our organisation on employability.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u18	I think it is clear: much will depend on the final version of the plan as it will be presented shortly. In my view, it is indeed a good thing to focus on employability with the limited resources we have. That is ultimately the core task. So you will have our absolute support. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u19	Mr Crusnière has informed us that he will be a little later. There are several committees on the table and he's on the Finance Committee. I call Mr Delannois.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the regional television station of the Picardy Wallonia recently interviewed a member of the administration of the Régie des Bâtiments concerning the courthouse of Tournai. It reported the existence of a National Defence-owned land, located on the site of the Luchet d'Antoing in Tournai, which would not be used at present and could accommodate the new Courthouse in Tournai, probably through a public-private partnership. Minister, do you confirm that Defence land is located on this site? Do you confirm that he is not currently busy? Has this possibility of building the new courthouse in Tournai on this site ever been considered by your services? If this land were to be offered for sale by the Department of Defense, would the resources available go back to your department or to the general budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u21	Madam President, Mr Delannois, Defence does indeed have land on this site. This is a former sports field that Defence has not occupied for years. The said land was handed over to the Committee for the Acquisition of Buildings in order to dispose of it, in other words to record the fact that it no longer belongs to us. The Régie des Bâtiments has confirmed that this land can be an opportunity for the consolidation and centralization of the departments of the Federal Public Service Justice currently dispersed in several buildings of the entity of Tournai. The allocation of revenue is made in accordance with the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the Federal Government's budget and accounts. This is how the sum of money collected following a sale goes to the general budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u22	Minister, I do not hide my astonishment from you. Indeed, the situation is rather surreal. Two former ministers, Messrs. From Clerck and Reynders came to Tournai to announce the construction of a new courthouse. Only cement remained to be prepared so that the first stone could be laid! The elections have taken place and, since then, as the mayor of this city, I do not see anything coming. This is how I find myself facing a lack of plans to build a new courthouse. In any case, when I ask Mr Geens whether there is a project to build a new courthouse in Tournai, he talks about rationalization and savings. So I think I can ask myself questions. I am not the only one to do so, but also the judiciary. Some say that there is no problem because they will never go to Mons, except at the moment, not only does no one manage to agree to pay the rent of the building that should be used fully on Rue du Château, but the lease will be completed in 7 years. I wonder what's going to happen in the years to come. I simply think that Justice has a hidden agenda in terms of courthouses. Your answer goes more or less in the same direction, and I very much regret it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u23	Minister, I would like to ask you about the renewal of the concessions for the Beauvechain air base. Farmers in this context would have received a renunciation without explanation. These are 220 hectares cultivated by farmers whose holding could thus be undermined. Minister, can you confirm to me this information that farmers concessionaires on the basis of Beauvechain would no longer be able to cultivate this land within your department? Was the removal of these concessions, de facto depriving farmers of their land, the only possible solution? And why? Are you considering ways in which these farmers could maintain their farms? More generally, have similar decisions been taken in other military areas in the Kingdom? If so, in which and according to what criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u24	Mr Crusnière, the agricultural concessions at the Beauvechain airbase must be renewed as they come to an end. It's a matter of contract. In accordance with the procedures in force, farmers were informed as early as June 2013. So two years ago. Such renewal is commonplace and has taken place in recent years in various military fields. The criteria for granting concessions shall be established by common agreement with the FPS Finance Heritage Services Administration on the basis of practice in the agricultural sector taking into account the specifics of the field concerned. With respect to Beauvechain, Defence wishes to take advantage of this renewal to improve aviation safety on this basis. Crop concessions will gradually be converted into herbage concessions on air bases with special operating conditions, as has already been done for several years at many civilian airports as well as at the Kleine-Brogel military base. In order to best manage the interests of each party involved in this transition, there is currently a consultation between the Defence, the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, the Boerenbond and the cabinet of the Minister of the Middle Classes, the Independents, SMEs and Agriculture and Social Integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u25	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u26	Minister, since you were Minister of Defence, a whole series of secret documents have been leaked in the run-up to the discussion of the statements on defence. We read in the press that after repeated leaks, you demanded an investigation from the top of the army. ADIV was subsequently engaged to examine all communication traces surrounding these documents. The route to the cabinet was also investigated by ADIV. They wanted to take an employee's laptop with them to take a closer look. You would have refused this and called your employee an absolute confidant. In addition, I have one question: for what reason did you refuse to investigate that laptop on your cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u27	Mr Dallemagne is not here, we shall move on to Mr Yüksel with a similar question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u28	In the aftermath of leaked information on reform plans at Defense, an investigation was launched by the military intelligence agency ADIV to detect the source of this leak. There were also questions about the granting of the security clearance of a member of the cabinet. This security clearance is necessary in order to access classified military information. In addition, I have a number of questions. What were the results of the ADIV study? Can you explain the steps taken in this regard? Can you comment on the granting of security clearance to members of the cabinet? Did military intelligence detect any problems with security clearances of certain members of the cabinet? If we read the press articles, there seems to have been a problem. I'm referring to an article in Time. If that's the case, what problems are we talking about? What action has been taken by the Minister? You ordered an investigation into the leak in the reform plans. Isn't it a problem that information on other matters is leaked as well? I'm talking about the security clearances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u29	First of all, I would like to say: 'What is your concern?' Anyway, so far. A while ago, I asked the Chief of Defense, General Van Caelenberge, to investigate a specific leak related to a document I explained to the General Staff on 30 March 2015. Mr Top, first of all I would like to comment on your question. It quickly gives the impression that these are secret documents and risk statements and so on. A document is secret only when it is legally secret and there are specific provisions for that. I'll come back to that later. With respect to his authority, General Van Caelenberge has asked the ADIV, the General Intelligence and Security Service of the Army, to investigate this leak. I do not need to tell you that ADIV researchers are doing a thorough job as they should be expected. Their work was so thorough that they examined all traces of communication with regard to the documents that are the subject of the investigation. They also asked questions. There was no maintenance and no interrogation. They've been in the Cabinet to have conversations with people. Then they also asked if they could take the computer. That question came to me. I told him it wasn't a judicial investigation. I've requested the investigation myself. Besides, I'm pretty sure the leak isn't looking for us. I therefore refused to submit a computer, which is part of my cabinet's heritage, for an investigation on a matter that was essentially an internal defence issue. People like to refer to articles in De Tijd, on whichever page they may appear. If I know what it says about my cabinet, then I have questions about the rest of the information provided in it. Anyway, I don't take it into account anymore when I'm preparing investments. I can assure you that the person whose name is mentioned is above suspicion. I'm 100 percent behind him. His future functioning is in no way in question. That's the signal I'm supposed to give as a minister on this case. Mr Yüksel, I will answer your original questions. Things have to be properly broken up. It's two different elements. With regard to the first investigation, however, at the time I gave the explanation, I had told the generals that they should not adopt the document if they felt obliged to pass it on. They did not, but two hours later the document was already on the street. I regret that. It is a pity, but it is not a secret document, which limits the legal means. That's the way it is. Obviously, with regard to that investigation, I'm just waiting for the results. As far as the article in Time is concerned, I repeat what I have just said. If I know what truth or falsehood is in there, then I don't trust that newspaper anymore when it comes to preparing my investments, if I already have investments. However, as far as security clearances are concerned, the law is clear. No information shall be provided on this matter. I refer to the law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice, but also to the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy. The question I would have expected from Members of this House about this article is how it is possible that this kind of information about investigations that are really secretly covered by the law might end up in a newspaper and that someone from the newspaper would still need to mention names, whatever their value. In any case, therefore, I cannot comment on the security clearances myself. I can assure you that, if it were a concern, the people in my cabinet would all have the authority they need to carry out their jobs properly. I have also taken a number of initiatives on this problem. I have asked the named person to formally file a criminal complaint, because there have been effective violations of laws. That's what happened. We shall see how the matter continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u30	Mr Minister, I do not think it is appropriate to have an answer, genre "What are you interfering with?' I really don't think this is funny. It is the second time that we have received an answer which puts parliamentary control in the ludicrous position. The way in which this is said here is the first interesting question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u31	Mr. Top, if you don't mind, we're gonna be personal. You should be able to handle a little humor, too, I think. Let's be serious. I made a joke at the start of my answer. You can always sue my sense of humor, I have no problem with that. However, I have answered your effective questions. In that sense, I would not override this problem either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u32	Mr. Secretary, I will clearly replicate. I didn't interrupt you at the time of what you call a joke. I did not interrupt you at the time and would like you not to do so now. I consider the democratic control of Parliament and the committee to be the most important thing. If you give your comments on the questions and the manner in which the question is asked here, I think that is below all levels. I find your answer to the question anything but. You first ask for an investigation of the leaks that have been there, but when it gets hot and you end up on your own cabinet, you call it off. All I can conclude from that is that you or your cabinet members are suspecting themselves by calling it off. That's the conclusion I have to draw, something others have apparently done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u33	Minister, I think it is our job and our duty to ask questions here about matters that we read and see. As far as I am concerned, your comment is not really relevant. In substance, you're requesting an investigation into a leak at ADIV. The detectives, who are looking for a mole, come to your cabinet. The newspaper mentions names of the mole who leaked secret documents or a secret note. A different story about the security clearance will then be added.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u34	There's another story. There's even a third story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u35	You say you can't take legal action in the investigation of that leak. I agree with that. What particularly bothers me in this case is that there are names being mentioned about security clearances. I think that information can only come from ADIV itself, from military intelligence. I think it is very strong that information from ADIV should be put on the street in this way. The question arises as to how we can still have confidence in ADIV? I also wonder whether this will have international repercussions or not. How will our partners at home and abroad evaluate the functioning of ADIV? I have serious questions about that. You have just spoken to me, I did not understand that correctly, about a criminal charge against strangers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u36	Yeah, I can't help myself. I'm not a directly involved party, but the people whose name is thrown into the newspaper. It's about people, I can't say that with whom everything's fine. There is no case! That's actually the nasty part. There's been a mole. However, I can say that the man who writes that plan day and night has no interest in leaking that plan, quite the contrary. That's what this is about. The fact is, this guy's been kicking some guy's ass around here and there. So it can also be interesting to kick back from there. With regard to the security clearances, I say that two laws have been broken: those relating to the secret and those relating to privacy. Someone has suffered direct damage and, on the basis of that damage, can file a criminal complaint with the prosecutor. I asked the person in question to consider that, and he eventually did. [[I can only agree with you that it is impossible and unacceptable for this kind of information to come out.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u37	Madam President, I will continue with my reply. I believe that information from our military security services should be confidential and should remain confidential. So this isn't just about anything. It's a matter of security. In the context of an investigation into a security clearance, it is unacceptable that information should come out about any problems. I think you might take steps. You speak of a criminal charge, but I am also thinking of the Committee I. That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u38	I can confirm that. The competent general Destelmans, following this article, informed us that this article would be published the day before the publication of this article and that a security breach had already been reported to the Committee I.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u39	One final point, then, Minister. I think we need to follow up on this and I will do so, because military security is far too important to just gibberish. If necessary, the Committee I will be asked to examine this further. You said earlier that you would no longer rely on that newspaper in your investments. I myself have been a journalist and I know that journalists do their work in honour and conscience and, of course, show a certain amount of deontology there. In this respect, we certainly need to dot the i's as well. I look forward to the criminal complaint and the investigation that started with the Committee I.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u40	After the approval of Mrs Fernandez and myself, let us put Mrs Jadin first, because she will soon have another question in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u41	Madam President, Minister, like you, I have been able to make some visits to barracks, although, as far as I am concerned, they are barracks in my area. On that occasion, I realized that significant investments had been made over the past five or ten years. That is why I have come to the conclusion that it would not be pointless to know the cost of renovations to the barracks in our country. Furthermore, as you know, Minister, Defence is still the poor child of the government, since it is this department that has to make the most savings, even though I am pleased that important allocations have recently been made to your department. Minister, as part of your strategic plan, which you intend to propose in September or early October, will you bear in mind that some very substantial investments have already been made to maintain the location of either combat unit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question. In front of me, I have an overview of the significant recent investments in barracks spread over the period 2011-2014. I will make it available to the secretariat so that you can have it this evening. These investments are one of the factors taken into account when assessing whether or not to maintain a military quarter as part of the future strategic plan. It is clear, however, that this is not the only factor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u43	Minister, I know you want to maintain the suspense around your plan. Obviously, I will certainly put many other questions by trying to titillate you to get some information, including this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u44	Minister, I had already asked you about the future of CETESOMA (Centre d'Études et de Documentation Guerre et Sociétés contemporains) which was threatened with extinction as a result of the savings that your government had decided on this matter. In that sense, a petition had even been drafted to protest against those measures. A few days ago, the press told us that this centre would receive 300,000 euros in addition to the 1.5 million grant, for the modernization of its computer science and an exhibition on Jews in Brussels during the Second World War. Since the budget thus set aside cannot be used to compensate for the large cuts in subsidies decided in October, which are recurrent, can you tell us more about the use of this additional budget by CEGESOMA? Following this budget support, what will be the total budget of the centre for 2015? Depending on the previous budget cuts that affected this centre, which projects were essential for budgetary work, what projects had to be stopped? Have the Centre's missions, in close connection with your memory work skills, been affected by these cuts? How do you assess this and what future have you been giving to CEGESOMA since my previous question on this subject? Was the Royal Army Museum eligible for this budget boost? If so, what projects did he submit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, CEGESOMA is a scientific institution under the supervision of Mrs Elke Sleurs, Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities and Science Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance. I can answer you about the Royal Museum of the Army (MRA): it has no connection with CEGESOMA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u46	Madam Chair, I can only note that the minister has taken more time to set out all of Ms.Sleurs' skills than to provide an element of response. But you have nothing to do with it, I just find that Mrs. Sleurs has many skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u47	I gave you my answer: the MRA has no connection with CEGESOMA. The rest is out of my league.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u48	I will then ask Mrs Sleurs the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u49	Mr President, Minister, your reply to a recent written question from me on the large equipment of the defence industry shows that the defence industry regularly uses the guarantee conditions to remedy major or minor defects or deficiencies in large-scale equipment manufacturers. Your answer shows that the defence industry is mainly relying on the guarantee conditions of two different Iveco vehicles. They've been in use since 2005. If I am correct, the guarantee has already been invoked 3 328 times. Since 2003 there have been Astra trucks, which have already been covered by the guarantee 1 686 times. You say that manufacturers are usually able to offer a solution within an acceptable period of time within the guarantee period. This shows that there are also cases where this does not happen. Why does the DOD have to rely so often on the guarantee conditions of these Iveco vehicles? What are the most common problems with these vehicles? Do Iveco sometimes have problems if the Department of Defense wants to avail itself of the warranty conditions? Can you go into that? Are these deadlines that are not acceptable or those offered that do not comply? If not, which manufacturers are involved? What exactly are the financial and practical consequences for Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u50	In fact, the defence exercises its right to claim a guarantee if the quality or condition of the material no longer corresponds to what was offered in the tender or if a component is defective within the warranty period. In the case of Iveco, the Lince, the LMV and the Astra-8 tonnes were indeed called on several times for the guarantee of water penetration in the roofs and windscreen frames, for the release of the protective equipment from the ballistic plates of the doors due to delamination of the ballistic glass, for corrosion on metal parts and a few other defects. In general, Iveco provides a formal response for about 50% of the guarantees requested, which is an acceptance. The rest is implicitly accepted as Iveco does not formally reject it. The quality of the solution chosen by Iveco for these problems and the deadlines needed to implement this solution left a lot to be desired in the past. A number of retrofits have already been carried out on the entire fleet due to identical problems, but in the end it took more than four years to come up with acceptable solutions and then implement them. The financial consequences are mainly borne by the firm. Due to the persistent problems many vehicles were immobilised due to repair, leading to a decreased level of operationality. However, this situation should have come to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u51	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u52	Minister, since April last year, the Royal Museum of Army and Military History has ceased to have a general director, but is the daily management of the museum owned by two scientists from the museum. At the committee meeting on 27 May, you said that the mandate of the Director-General could only be declared vacant after a study into the possible renewal of the post. That study had not yet been completed. On 18 June, however, one of the two acting directors withdrew from his mission for medical reasons. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions in response to this message. Will you appoint a replacement for the acting director who withdraws or will his colleague only be in charge for the time being? In the meantime, what progress has been made with the study of a possible new interpretation of the role of Director General? From when do you think you can initiate the procedure to find a new director? By when do you hope that the Army Museum will have a permanent new director again?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u53	Mrs Grosemans, I will not appoint a replacement for the director of the ad interim who has withdrawn for medical reasons. The second ad interim director will continue to observe the day-to-day management of the Royal Museum only pending the appointment of a new director. The study requested from the historical pool of Defence in connection with the policy of military heritage and the outcome of the information mission of the General Department of Defence is expected in September. Following that, I would like to start the recruitment procedure on the basis of the future vision for the museum and the implementation of the position of director. I hope to finish by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll get back to you in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u55	Minister, in L'Avenir, June 5, we could read that the process of recruiting 24 cybersecurity specialists for the General Intelligence and Security Service (GSRS) had begun. The role of these new recruits will be to combat cyberspace threats by monitoring and securing Defence's computer networks as well as by analyzing malware. Indeed, Defence is a target of choice since 20,000 computers and alarm systems are interconnected, and even a dangerous choice if you know that planes or ships are connected to a weapon system. However, it would appear that the Cyber Security Operations Centre (CSOC) will not be fully operational for three years due to the time required to train experts, mainly abroad, as Belgian universities would not be sufficiently "competent" in this area, according to this article. Minister, when is the end of the recruitment process scheduled? Under what status will these new recruits be recruited? Where will they be based? Where will these recruits be trained? Is it true that there would not be the necessary expertise in Belgium for this purpose? Is this recruitment carried out in collaboration with the State Security Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u56	Fernandez Fernandez, as mentioned on the Selor site, the possibility of applying was open until June 19. The first tests will take place on 13 July or 6 August, depending on the availability of candidates. These tests will be followed by interviews during September. The recruitment process will therefore end in October 2015, when candidates are informed that they are being selected. Cyberspecialists will be recruited as ICT Security Attaché or Cyber Risk Prevention Level A 2 or as Cyber Risk Prevention Specialists or ICT Security Specialists Level B. The main duty station is Evere. Recruits will be trained by institutions or organizations that can provide specific expertise at the level set by Defence. Currently, the necessary expertise is not available in Belgium. This recruitment is not done in collaboration with the State Security, as it is a recruitment for a defence-specific cell. Of the 24 specialists, 8 are planned to work in a specific field and according to the needs of the CWB, the Belgian Cyber Security Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u57	I thank the minister for his full response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u58	Madam President, Minister, according to new information released on June 23 by the whistleblower Edward Snowden, the NSA intercepted the communications of the last three French heads of state. To this end, a special joint unit at the NSA and the CIA, called the Special Collection Service (SCS), has set up a telecommunications spy station at the United States Embassy in Paris. It is currently covered with a tarpaulin painted in trompe l'oeil, allowing electromagnetic signals to be collected. According to a classified document published by Der Spiegel, the SCS would have eighty such tools scattered around the planet, including nineteen in Europe. The US Embassy in Brussels is strategically located as well as the US Embassy in Paris. It is just as close to all decision-making places, be they political or economic, Belgian or European. We can legitimately ask ourselves whether our ally is also doing so in our territory. Minister, can you tell me whether your services have been informed of the presence of a SCS antenna on the roofs or in the buildings of the United States Embassy in Brussels or in its outbuildings? If so, what steps have your services taken to put an end to this possible espionage? If not, do your services know whether these technological tools are currently placed at NATO military bases or headquarters, which are also physically extremely well placed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u59	Madam President, Mr Hellings, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) is unaware of the presence of SCS antennas on the roofs of the American Embassy in Brussels. In addition, it is not possible to determine whether an antenna placed on a roof is actually used to transmit or capture communications. At military bases and at NATO headquarters, there is no communication interception system, to the knowledge of the SGRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u60	Mr Minister, I had initially addressed my question to your colleague in charge of justice, who sent it back to you. My question, of course, was to the minister in charge of State Security. I'm glad you're answering me. The SGRS also has intelligence jurisdiction. I would like to share two thoughts. First, it is clear that the French intelligence services clearly did not know that. I encourage you to check out what's on the roof of this embassy. Secondly, I have asked another question which will be on the agenda of one of our next meetings. General Testelmans once again stated in De Standaard two days ago that it was a matter of general surveillance on fibre optics. For my part, both Belgium and the United States must stop this massive listening. This undermines trust between allies. This question will be an opportunity for me to repeat our total opposition to any widespread surveillance, whether by the United States or Belgium, through the ambitions of General Testelmans, once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to you concerning the military cemetery of Rabosée in the region of Liège. Indeed, you committed yourself a few months ago to rehabilitating this cemetery. Remember, at the end of September 2014, 157 bronze commemorative plaques had been stolen. The rest of the plates present - a hundred - had been sheltered by the defence services. We note to date that the rehabilitation of the Rabosée cemetery has not yet been completed. In addition, new vandalism has taken place in the surrounding area, notably in the military square of Robermont Cemetery, located in Liège. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions, Mr. Minister. What is the status of the rehabilitation of the Rabosée military cemetery? At what time is the replacement of plates by others in plexiglas planned? The commemorations of 11 November are approaching very soon, an important event in terms of commemoration in Liège but also in the neighborhood. What is the status of the project to offer or make available certain plaques protected at the Royal Museums of Art and History, the ln Flanders Fields Museum, the Memorial Museum Passchendaele 1917 and the Fort of Loncin? If there is a decision that has been made, do we know how many plaques will go into them and on what distribution? Finally, have you assessed how we can better monitor the maintenance and preservation of certain major symbols of this memory, as you told us at the committee on 7 January?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u62	Fernandez Fernandez, Defence currently has contracts for the delivery of bronze plates. Given the price and attractiveness this type of plate represents for thieves, it was not possible to replace bronze plates. This contract ends in December 2015, and we will take advantage of its renewal to integrate the delivery of less expensive synthetic materials. The new contract will be active from 1 January 2016 and the budget allocated to it will take into account the replacement of all the plates in the Rabosée cemetery with plates made of synthetic materials. Depending on the budget and production deadlines, these new synthetic plates are expected to be delivered by the end of the first quarter of 2016. They will then be put in place by Defence personnel. The remaining plates are currently kept by the military commander of the province of Liège. Three plaques: a Dutch-speaking plaque, a French-speaking plaque and a plaque from an unknown soldier will soon be transferred to the Memorial Museum Passchendaele 1917. A plaque will be offered to the city of Lier, including the plaque of Raymond de la Haye, a painter from the city. The rest of the plates will be transferred to the Fort Loncin Museum. The conclusion of the above-mentioned contract is part of the following approach: on the one hand, the maintenance of synthetic plates is easier because these plates do not require sanding and the cleaning of any graffiti can be done very easily, on the other hand, the very nature of the materials used has no attractiveness for people who would like to give them another use.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, we have never asked that the plates be redone in the same material because there is no point in investing if the new plates are likely to be stolen. Plexiglas seems to me to be a good solution. However, I regret that the plates in question cannot be available for 11 November. Minister, I would therefore like to extend an invitation to you. I know you're probably very much in demand during this period, but your presence at the commemorations organized by the schools of the neighborhood would delight all the inhabitants of this popular neighbourhood of the periphery of Liège for whom this is an important event. And here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the teachers and school children involved are of various origins. Having said that, it would be regrettable to come to this commemoration with the feeling that nothing has been done, even though I fully understand the difficulties associated with launching a public procurement. I hope, in any case, that you can free yourself to come to deep Wallonia to pay tribute to the fallen soldiers for the homeland. And I know you're working on your strategic plan. I ask you, on this occasion, not to forget the work of memory. Finally, during the exchange we had, in January, I asked you whether one or two plates could stay in the neighborhood rather than transport them all to Fort Loncin. As I said, this is an important monument. They can be sheltered in the administrative centre to be built. Your gesture would, in any case, be appreciated by the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u64	Dear colleague, the best solution would be for you to contact the military command of the province. I do not think this will be a problem, but the decision must be taken by the responsible authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u65	Yes, but you have to sign your agreement. Colonel Crucifix will not make any decisions without your consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 5417 lapses because he is in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u67	Minister, on 24 June we read in the press that you want to use military, helicopters and F-16s for a rapid intervention force at the eastern borders of NATO. This rapid reaction force, called Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, would include 4 000 to 5 000 soldiers, of which Belgium would supply 1 000... other press articles on 1 500.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That flash force could operate quickly and should be on the scene within 48 hours to deal with Russian threats. Once that flashpower is present, it can then gain reinforcement of larger forces, but in this way we need to be able to respond more quickly to threats. Units would be deployed in six different places, also according to the reports, to ensure that the cooperation and integration of the soldiers of that flash force is flawless. The NATO States would supply people and equipment on a rotational basis. According to the NATO plan, the rapid deployment of troops should not be hampered by cumbersome political decision-making. When national parliaments and government leaders have to give their approval, NATO considers it difficult to react quickly. That is why I would have liked to answer the following questions. Can you confirm that Belgium will deploy military, helicopters and F-16s? What numbers are we talking about and for how long? Will Belgium also supply military for the units? If so, in which country or countries and how many? What equipment will Belgium possibly supply? Which countries would participate in this? Which and how many resources and troops are sending all these countries? At what time is there rotation and between which countries? Are you considering, as suggested in the article, taking such decisions without the approval of Parliament and the Council of Ministers? Once the flash force principle was accepted, how is the sending of the task force decided, followed and controlled? Where is this budgeted and what amounts are involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u68	Madam President, I will abstain from any joke. At the NATO Defence Ministers' meeting of 5 February 2015, it was already decided to strengthen the NATO Response Force, the NRF, with the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, also called the VJTF. It will consist of a land component supported by the necessary air, maritime and special forces capacity. Hence the term joint. The VJTF can develop at the start of a crisis as a symbol of the collective defence of the alliance. That is the principle that was agreed at the time. Belgium will deploy the troops already foreseen for 2016 in the VJTF. We're talking about one battle group, F16s, a helicopter, mine hunters and everything that's needed to provide support. It concerns about 1 500 soldiers who will be on standby for a year for a possible deployment in the event of a crisis. It is perhaps interesting to know that the VGTF will be led by Spain, which will also make the greatest contribution. Multinational command-and-control elements are also established in the Baltic States, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. These elements will assist in the coordination of multinational exercises and the advanced planning of collective defence and in the preparation of a rapid deployment of troops to the region. Belgium will deploy one officer in Poland and one in Lithuania. It is generally rotated every three years. NATO initiatives are part of a package of measures included in the Readiness Action Plan (RAT). These measures are purely defensive, proportionate and in line with existing international agreements. The decision was taken by consensus and all 28 NATO Member States will participate in it according to the usual key, i.e. fair burden-sharing. The construction of the VJTF 2016 is still under way. At present, it is not clear how much resources and troops the other countries will send, just that Spain will be in charge. A full VGTF cycle consists of three years: one year for construction, stand-up, one year for actual standby and one year for stand-down. If NATO were to decide, I speak in the conditional wisdom of using the VJTF after the approval of the North Atlantic Council, the first approval necessary for deployment, the Belgian military will always be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval in accordance with Article 167 of the Constitution. The budgetary impact for Belgium is limited to the costs associated with the training of staff. The costs are borne by the Defense within its normal budget for trainings and the like. Given the hypothetical nature of a real commitment, it is impossible to set up part of the budget in advance. However, if we were to decide together with 28 countries to actually use the VJTF, then I think we are in a very serious crisis and at that time we should also be prepared to make the necessary resources available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I have received an answer to all my questions, with the exception of a question which is rather a reflection, two reservations. It is a political reflection of our group rather than technical questions and answers. We feel that everything is being done, given the budget cut and the low budget allocated to the defence sector, to be on a good note with NATO. The missions are always used with the F-16s, to prove that we are indispensable. A second thought of me is about such operations. It does not seem real to me that Putin would attack a NATO country. Let us hope that this will never be the case. If we look at his budget for defence and the quality of the material at his disposal, we may have reservations about the way in which we react at the borders of Eastern Europe, at the borders of our NATO countries and its borders. Everything seems to be beginning to appear that by bidding against each other, who is the first, that will probably never become clear because it is a bid between the NATO countries and Russia that is being re-launched into a conflict or a cold war. It seems to me that it is more than necessary or useful to organise diplomatic consultations with Russia and NATO countries and Europe in order not to resolve the conflicts and problems at the Eastern borders, but to smooth out the folds instead of just using defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u70	Madam President, Minister, your colleague, Minister Jambon, has been selecting the key tasks of the police for some time. For example, guarding royal palaces would apparently no longer be considered an essential task of the police. Personal protection would become a priority. According to what we heard from the press, the security of buildings should then be transferred to, for example, the Defense Department. Last year, the surveillance of the royal palace in Brussels, the castle in Laeken, the Belvédère castle and three other royal domains required 267 000 hours of work, of which 181 000 for the static surveillance of these buildings. Also monitoring the SHAPE would no longer be seen as a police core task. Can you confirm that? Does the Department of Defense have enough personnel to take over those duties? How do you feel about your colleague's proposal? Can you give an evaluation of the orders of the military who are on the streets these days? I have just heard, and I have noticed, that in the last week there have been fewer military deployments in the vicinity of Parliament than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u71	Madam President, Mr Top, Minister Jambon is currently holding a key debate on his core tasks. We also do this for the defence sector in the context of our strategic plan. Nowadays, the surveillance of the royal palaces is not part of these tasks. We're not studying whether or not we should do it in the Defense Department. Your question is a conditional question. With regard to the security mission of the soldiers on the street, I can say that it is carried out to the satisfaction of the parties concerned, in particular the police and civil authorities. The broad media coverage at the start of the operation has now been removed, but it can be said that the perception of the population is generally positive. Recently, the defence staff themselves have also assessed the mission and the results confirm that the objectives are being achieved. As for your last remark, the operative part has been reduced a little by changing the specific approach to a number of problems. That's what was communicated. Let me explain once again how it works. It is the specialists who decide where we should or should not use the military and on that basis the needs are determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u72	Minister, I understand that it is only a reflection process and a preparation by your colleague. However, it is important to know where you will end up together with your colleague. If he were to remove the police surveillance tasks, these tasks would have to go elsewhere, in addition to the tasks of others and in addition to their budget. If your colleague says in his report that this might be something for the defense, it will have serious consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u73	Of course, the newspaper refers first and foremost to the Defense Department. However, I have not yet heard Mr Jambon say that these tasks should go straight to the Defence Department. If the question is asked, we will study it and then I will be able to give a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u74	Minister, I would like to point out that there is still uncertainty among the defence personnel because the plan is awaiting us and there is still no certainty and clarity about the future of defence. Anyone who makes balloons, whether by the Minister himself or by the press who drops the name "Defense," I leave in the middle who made that statement, because of this only the uncertainty of the staff is fed. I believe it is fair to say that most people entering the Defense Department have never seen it as their calling to carry out static surveillance orders as the main task of their task package. If that suddenly became the main task, there will be a lot of work left to motivate Defence personnel to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u75	Minister, the restructuring of the defence industry and the closure of barracks due to savings have led to an increasing number of soldiers living at a greater distance from their permanent workshop. That is why we are currently working on a legal basis for distance work for military personnel. Of course, I welcome any initiative to bring work and private life closer together. The design of KB, which is currently on the table, also regulates compensation for commuting. If the military chooses to work in a satellite office......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Other departments, such as the FPS Finance, do provide bicycle fees and reimbursement of public transport in the case of satellite work. It is important to make the profession of military as attractive as possible and thus to optimise the combination with private life and to accommodate commuting. Mr President, why is there no provision for compensation for transportation costs for military workers who will work in a satellite office? Are you prepared to respond to the demands of military representatives to enable a bicycle fee and the reimbursement of public transport in the case of satellite work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u76	Mr Yüksel, in the context of commuting expenses, the Department of Defence is in maximum agreement with the policy applicable within the federal government. That is a good thing, and we agree on that. Within the federal government, there is currently an efficiency programme, the Optifed project, launched by my predecessor in Civil Service cases, your party colleague Mr Bogaert, with the sub-project "The new works" which revises the way in which the work organisation is regulated. This project includes, among other things, working in satellite offices. Within that federal project there is no provision for a bicycle fee or refund of the subscription when working in a satellite office. It is not correct what you say, namely that this would not be applied in other departments, such as the FPS Finance. Only in that department is the exception applied, what happens with the FPS Finance is an exception to what is generally foreseen through Optifed. For this reason, in accordance with the other departments, no compensation was provided for commuting. I'm going to make a joke: I've already said in the past that finance is now getting bigger than defense and maybe even more dangerous for some. End of the joke. In the meantime, negotiations on the legal provisions of distance work at Defense have been concluded. We have an agreement with the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u77	Minister, I am surprised that there is an exception for FPS Finance. Military and civil servants should be considered as a whole. It's good that an agreement has been reached with the Defense Department. We'll follow that up. Thank you for the joke in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u78	Minister, last year the CHOD decided that from 8 October 2014 the police hat of the Royal School of Petty Officers in Saffronberg should no longer be worn by the framework. Each executive must now wear the hat, hat and pins of his or her last unit. Many executives of the KSOO do not seem to be happy with that. By wearing the hat and logo it is clear that they belong to the KSOO and that they are executive members, which implies a certain recognition, prestige and therefore motivation. Afterwards it became clear that the decision, which was taken unilaterally by the CHOD, concerns a consultation matter as described in Article 7 of the syndicated law. However, the necessary consultations would never have taken place. I think this is a special way of working. I therefore have two questions. What is the explanation for the unilateral imposition of the decision by the CHOD? Why didn't they discuss it? Is this decision withdrawn, if any, in view of the absence of consultation and the invalidity of that decision which should accompany it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u79	The decision you are speaking of dates from 5 May 2014 and was taken at the meeting with the various Clothes and Equipment Committees. So apparently there are committees of clothing and equipment. The Ministry of Defence's note set the date of entry into force of the measure on 1 August 2014. The decision was annexed to a detailed instruction describing the names, traditions and headgear of staff departments and units. The decision is that the special status of apprentice must be clearly visible. Thus they wear a separate hat and plates. The executives, on the other hand, belong to their powers and carry the uniform according to the rules applicable to them. The detailed instruction referred to above is not subject to consultation, as the rules on clothing are not among the subjects to be discussed with the representative trade unions, with the application of the military syndical status. It is not intended to return to that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u80	Mr Minister, the information I have at my disposal says something else, but I will check it again. I believe that the matter is covered by Article 7 on consultation with the trade unions, but I thank you, of course, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u81	Mr Minister, the military who have become and are still being deployed for security missions in Brussels are housed in Block B of the Quarter Major Housiau in Peutie. Block B2 is a log block and is only used sporadically, leaving much to be desired for its maintenance. There are pieces of ceiling and wall on the floor, sanitary facilities are worn out or not working properly and so on. If you're interested, I can get you photos of this. In addition, there are insufficient beds for the military so that some have to sleep permanently on a cot or even on a mattress on the ground. It can be said that they are on a mission, but I think that the military in Peutie should have better logistical support. It is of course not very comfortable living conditions for soldiers who, among other things, also guard your cabinet. My questions are therefore the following, Minister. What were the alternatives to housing the military with a view to monitoring orders in Brussels? What was the motivation that led to the military being housed in a block in such circumstances? Are there alternatives to the housing of the military at the moment? If the military still have to stay in block B, are there any possibilities to provide sufficient beds and to address the problems by working on the plumbing and the like? What steps have been taken to this end? What further steps will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u82	Mr Yüksel, at the start of the security mission in Brussels, it was chosen to house the military in Block B2 of the quarter of Major Housiau in Peutie, because of the short distance and the good links to the different places where they are deployed. The fifteen minutes in Peutie offers the possibility to provide soldiers with accommodation, meals and the necessary means of communication. Within 15 minutes Major Housiau and in other quarters in Brussels or surroundings, no other suitable buildings are available to accommodate such detachments. The block B2 is indeed an old log. Since this is a temporary assignment, a solution within a fixed structure was chosen, i.e. no lodging in tents, where the basic hygiene, safety and comfort requirements have to be met. Following the launch of the operation, it was found that some adaptation works were needed. For this reason, a disposal company was called, among other things, to remedy the blockage of the drains. Since this intervention did not provide an adequate solution, two sanitary containers with toilets and urinals were replaced to replace the sanitary block. In addition, a contractor was ordered to replace the clogged pipes of the toilets. With regard to the beds, the basic order for soldiers with security orders prescribes a lodging on field beds. To increase comfort, it was chosen to open the block B2. There are 182 standard single beds in multiple rooms. Depending on the composition of the detachment with military from different units, it is exceptionally possible that a limited number of soldiers should temporarily sleep on a field bed. Given the central location for the execution of the contract, due to the speed of intervention and the availability of sufficient catering facilities and means of communication, alternatives are not immediately available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, I understand the choice of location, it's a good location. I have a few reservations. You are talking about a temporary assignment, but we have been working for a few months now and it does not seem that it will come to an end soon. There is something to say for the beds, but we should take a serious look at the improvement of the sanitary facilities. You and I wouldn't like to work in those circumstances ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u84	I said that we are investing to make it better, that seems obvious to me. This is a temporary assignment for the military. We rotate every two weeks. One should not think that people are housed in an abominable way for months. Facilities are now being upgraded. We are doing the work, we are now in the process of replacing sewers and that is more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u85	Mr Minister, in Le Soir of 17 June, we learned that the future of the military districts of Liège seemed to be well defined. At the end of March, a municipal councillor from the MR group announced, in an inquiry addressed to the Collège Communal, that the neighbourhoods of Saint-Laurent and Rocourt would be greatly reduced. It would not have shocked me too much if that same person was not also Defence Advisor to the Prime Minister's Office. If that were not the case, I would understand that you would reply that a communal councillor does not have any information in this regard. Even if I imagine you're going to tell me that no formal decision is being made pending the strategic plan, such an announcement necessarily has an impact on the entire province and conflicts with some of your answers to questions posed by colleagues or myself. These are the words of the Liberal communal councillor and nevertheless defence advisor to the Prime Minister's office. He said he "personally had great fears about the maintenance of two military quarters, namely the former arsenal of Rocourt and the Saint-Laurent quarter. Neither of them presents to me – but I hope I'm wrong – enough qualities to still be occupied in the future by the Defence: the work produced in the former arsenal is now often outsourced. As for the provincial headquarters and the Department of Military Constructions, located in St. Lawrence, their future seems uncertain or synonymous with reduction." In conclusion, in his view, the continuation of these two barracks is not justified. As far as Rocourt was concerned, he asked the College to promote the consolidation of a defence unit and the new district of the Federal Police, "a good use of public funds". As a reminder, another communal councillor, a member of this assembly, had submitted this suggestion to you. This is a warning person – and I believe very little at random... With regard to St. Lawrence, there is a question of developing a public-private partnership, integrating what remains of the staff, that is, about fifteen people. With regard to the outsourcing of skills, Rocourt specializes in the maintenance and reconditioning of military equipment with high skills in mechanics, welding, painting, optics or hydraulics. This is where the spare parts of the F-16 were valued, for example. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions. Can you confirm to us the very detailed statements of this communal advisor MR who is also, I repeat, Defence Advisor to the Prime Minister's Office? Where does his information come from? Are you considering using the Rocourt barracks as a new federal police district? Are you considering a public-private partnership for the Saint-Laurent barracks? Where would these 650 jobs be distributed? What about preserving the skills and expertise of these neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u86	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I do not know where the municipal councillor obtained this information. So I can't confirm it. As I have already announced in the press in response to many questions, I have proposed to the government a long-term strategic vision for Defence. This vision will be developed in several phases; in principle, the infrastructure component will be part of the latter. I will then be able to inform you about the future of military sites in the territory of the province of Liège, where I am in correspondence with each municipality. After the summer of 2015, I hope I can give you an answer. You will easily understand that I am not in a position to comment on this until the plan is validated by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u87	Minister, I was guessing your answers a little, but you will understand that, both as a local agent and as a member of this assembly, I am obviously being questioned by the Prime Minister's Defence Advisor. I'm going to give you a second invitation, not to come to Liège because I know your agenda is loaded, but maybe to question...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u88	Yes, I know, I'm not questioning you at all, minister, not on this subject anyway. I think it might be interesting for you to talk to the Prime Minister about the information that his councillors provide; perhaps in a few months we will find out that the Prime Minister's advisers are visionary, if indeed what was announced by the communal councillor is found in this strategic plan! I don't believe in chance. You're getting to know me a little bit and I guess you're sure that my colleagues and I will be paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u89	Madam President, Minister, we have learned from the press that 79 military personnel were dismissed for psychological reasons during 2014. In addition, 111 soldiers were thanked because their physical condition was not sufficient. Thirty-two soldiers combined the two problems. In fact, missions abroad away from their families, their responsibilities and the tragedies they face can have an impact on their mental health. This would even have an impact on the increase in the suicide rate in the army every year. It is the head of the corps who requests a medical examination to check fitness for work in case of doubt about a soldier. If the conclusions are negative, the member shall pass before a committee to decide on his future on the basis of new expertise. Minister, what exactly do the terms psychological disorders cover? Are these departures accepted by the military or are they forced departures? Is there psychosocial support before the military is dismissed? We have already had an exchange on this. Are they followed by the Military Hospital Mental Health Centre before being dismissed? Is not the defence's solution to the psychological problems of the military that is to thank them all the more likely to increase these problems? Given the approaching time frame, do you think that your study of the structural framework for the return of missions will be well integrated into the strategic plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u90	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting on 22 April, in response to my question on the issue of post-traumatic stress disorder, you said that Defence was following this issue closely and that a two-program was being worked on at that time. That program would allow military personnel exposed to critical incidents during a foreign mission to be examined on an individual basis after their return and to systematically screen all military personnel at the end of a mission. A first test case would start soon. Mr Minister, I would like to ask for an update on the basis of the following questions. Is there any news on this? Which military are we talking about exactly? After all, we are concluding a number of missions, at least for the time being. If there has already been communication with the military, how does the military personnel respond to this test case? Are they aware of this yet? Is there any planning and timing for the test case yet? Do you have any idea how it works? Who's it meant for, what's it meant for, and who's gonna work it out for? When are the first results expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u91	Ladies, the concept of psychological disorder is a generic formulation that covers diseases, signs and symptoms related to disorders or pathologies described in international classifications. In the regulations setting out the criteria for the medical fitness of members for the exercise of their profession, these elements are involved in the definition of the medical profile. When certain signs, symptoms or illnesses lead to individual dysfunctions, some members must appear before the Military Fitness and Reform Commission, which decides whether or not to pursue a career in Defence. The decision to separate from a collaborator is never but the ultimate conclusion, when all the other avenues of reintegration and reclassification have been analysed and considered but prove inappropriate. In some cases, it appears that this is the only possible option. This mechanism is not new. The regulations on this subject date back to 2005. As far as psychosocial support is concerned, I should like to note that I pay particular attention to the structural framework on the return of missions and that, as such, I have asked the Wellbeing Department of the General Staff to develop a test case on this subject, including Mrs Grosemans' question. In order to monitor post-traumatic stress disturbances in military personnel and, if necessary, to respond to them, the Defence Department shall follow a dual trail based on the possible individual exposure to stress, on the one hand, and on the nature of the shipment with a potentially increased risk of stress, on the other. As regards the measures taken in the context of a consignment with a potentially increased risk of stress, the track shall be followed by an adaptation axis at the end of the consignment. The adaptation axis allows all military personnel of the detachment concerned to achieve an optimal return to the family and to guarantee operationality for future shipments. This is going to be a very limited test case, for example, today on board the ship Godetia, which, after the operation in the Mediterranean in support of Frontex, is heading back to Zeebrugge. The crew members exposed to stress or suffering from trauma receive help and assistance from the ship's medical team and from the mental advisers. If it turns out that military support is still needed after his return to Belgium, a follow-up will be provided on the initiative of the military or medical chain concerned as long as necessary. When I visited the Godetia, I indeed found that, while one would normally think that a confrontation with violence could cause stress, the confrontation on the ground with the suffering of those who were saved could have an impact on the state of mind of the military. In this context, special measures have already been taken during the operation, but we have decided to pay particular attention to the return, which takes place in a somewhat more relaxed atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u92	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u93	Mr Minister, I am going to talk about the test case I mentioned in my question. I think there are two possibilities. Either that test case is negatively received and the military say there's no need for it. But even then, it still seems very positive to me that a test case took place and the Minister stuck his neck out to investigate whether there is a need for it. Either that test case is welcomed and, frankly, that is what I am assuming. I often speak with soldiers and I have also heard that on the Godetia several soldiers have seen very hard images. I believe that the military will find this very positive and will feel that there is much appreciation for their work. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u94	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 5679 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u95	Minister, NATO launched the Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan on 1 January 2015 to train and assist local troops. The mission was originally scheduled to last until December 2016, but Secretary General Stoltenberg already confirmed that NATO would remain in Afghanistan after 2016. The German army has been active in northern Afghanistan for several years. The German army, together with the Belgian army, is located in the Marmal camp at Mazar-i-Sharif airport. The German army recently announced that it would withdraw from northern Afghanistan in early 2016 to focus on the training missions in Kabul. I have a few questions about this. Does the move from the German army to Kabul have consequences for the Belgian military there? Are the Belgian military also forced to move towards Kabul? Will additional Belgian soldiers have to be deployed? Does the Belgian detachment in Mazar-i-Sharif still count 54 soldiers? In the press there were some seventy soldiers. How many Belgian soldiers work in Kabul at other headquarters or at logistical support points? Finally, do you have any idea the reason for the transfer of the German detachment?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u96	Mr Top, once again I will abstain from any joke. In autumn 2015, the Resolute Support operation, abbreviated RSM, will start with the sequential withdrawal of all troops deployed in the regional Training, Advice and Assist Commands of TAAC. In the final phase of RSM, all troops in the Kabul region will be stationed. The TAAC North in Mazar-i-Sharif will be closed in the first lever of 2016, as planned at the time. We're part of that. The dismantling of the German presence in Mazar-i-Sharif has been planned for a long time, as has been said, and this planning has also been communicated to all the countries working with Germany in northern Afghanistan, including us. So this communication is no surprise to the Defense Department and is in line with what was and is planned. The Ministers for Defence of the TAAC-North countries met two weeks ago, on 25 June, in the margins of the NATO summit. The Belgian detachment in the Marmal camp in Mazar-i-Sharif has currently 58 soldiers. The number of Belgian soldiers in Kabul is seven. There is sometimes confusion, Mr Top, let me explain. If we talk about a planned 70 men before the operation, it can fluctuate somewhat in between, with a maximum of 70. As a result of the closure of TAAC North, the number of Belgians in Afghanistan will gradually decrease from the beginning of 2016. There is no increase in the number of Belgian soldiers elsewhere in Afghanistan. However, it is possible that a limited Redeployment Task Force or RDTF will be developed in Mazar-i-Sharif, in order to facilitate the return of the Belgian military and their equipment. Today it is also the case that our CBRM teams are mainly engaged in disinfection of material from recurring shifts. At the end of the day, we could be working on this within the planning framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u97	Thank you for the answer, it is more than enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u98	Madam President, Minister, as every year, NATO has published its ranking of defence spending in its member states. As a result of the budget cuts decided by this government, Belgium has fallen further there and is now in the penultimate place alongside Hungary and Spain, just before Luxembourg. As we know, you have indicated that you want to stabilize your budget when it is likely to be extremely difficult during this Parliament. Indeed, the resources available to you were planed as soon as the government took office in October 2014, rising to €2.1 billion (or 0.48% of GDP) in 2019. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What are clearly the government's ambitions in terms of the percentage of GDP spent on defence under this legislature? Even if only five countries meet this quantified target, NATO again asked its member states at its last summit in Wales to devote 2% of their GDP to defence by 2024. At the time under the current business regime, did Belgium express any reservations about these conclusions? How does the current government, now full-fledged, position itself against these conclusions? Finally, under the budgetary conditions that this government has decided, how can you claim to draft a fifteen-year strategic plan that would provide for the triple of the army's budget between 2020 and 2030, to bring it to the European average? How can you commit yourself in such proportions for expenses that will have to be decided by future governments? So what are your ways to increase your department's budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u99	Mr President, the government's ambitions in terms of the percentage of GDP spent on defence under this legislature will be an integral part of the strategic plan to be approved by the Council of Ministers. A preliminary remark: when we talk about 2.1 billion euros, it is the Defence budget; when we talk about a percentage of GDP in NATO, it also includes pensions. The distinction is important because the figures are different. The North Atlantic Council Summit Declaration, held in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014, was adopted by all Heads of State, including ours. A discussion on defence spending will take place at the July 2016 summit in Warsaw. In the strategic vision note I presented to Kern on May 8, which is the basis for discussion for the Defence Strategic Plan, I proposed a scenario that reverses the downward trend in Defence budgets with a budgetary effort – including defence pensions – of 1.6% of GDP. This corresponds to the current average of European NATO countries. Of course, the final scenario is part of the strategic plan that is a whole-of-government project, that is, the full government. The government agreement is clear: Belgium will remain a solid and credible partner in NATO. A solidarity budget is an important factor for this because it is necessary for the corresponding investments. The willingness of the Heads of State and Government during the NATO summit in Wales to do so was also clear, as already mentioned. Defence has an intergenerational character. On the one hand, today's capacitative decisions will be essential for the safety of all Belgians and our international partners for the coming decades. Capabilities include military equipment with a life span of several decades. On the other hand, the acquisition of these capacities requires intergenerational planning, since the process of acquisition and implementation is generally long. I take the example of the A400Ms which were ordered by your friend, Mr Flahaut, at the time and which will be delivered in 2019. We start paying as early as 2017 but they will only be provided in 2019. The past shows that the acquisition decisions made under the previous strategic plan (the 2000 ones were from Mr. Flahaut) have an effect on one, two, or even three legislatures. For example, as I mentioned earlier, the A400Ms are understandable to everyone. It is clear that there are decisions that we need to make that will have implications for the following governments. As Minister of Defence and concerned with the safety of our children, I believe that the necessary decisions must be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u100	Minister, thank you. However, according to my information, there were reservations from Belgium at the top of Wales. In my reply, you'll allow me to do a little humor. First, I note with satisfaction that you consider that you have kept the best for the end. I also learned from your answer to Mr. Penris that you agreed to spend a full day with me. So I'm going to give you a few dates so that we can agree on an appointment so that you can explain in detail the future strategic plan and the increase in Defence's share of GDP through investments suggested by De Tijd, if I understand correctly. I will then relay this information to my opposition colleague, Mr Yüksel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u101	I have quoted the committee's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u102	Madam President, Minister, 1,500, this is the number of soldiers Belgium promised next year to NATO's very rapid reaction force, nicknamed Launch Iron, in a context where tensions continue to rise to the east of Europe, since Russia's annexation of Crimea in March 2014. Through the press, we were able to learn that this Belgian battle group will be built around the 2nd commando battalion of Flawinne and will only be deployed on order of the SACEUR. In addition to these troops, four F-16s have participated, from 5 January to the end of August, in NATO's air police operation over the Baltic Sea. As a result of these tensions, NATO decided to evolve Operation Baltic Air Policing by quadrupling its capabilities. Minister, in this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Why did Belgium decide to put 1,500 of its soldiers at the disposal of NATO's Fer de lance operation? How do you explain this figure, which represents almost three times the total number of Belgian soldiers currently deployed abroad? Under the budgetary conditions of your department, how would such a mobilization of our country be possible in terms of financial or training as well as human resources, when all these posts are affected by the savings decided by the government? Under what modalities and timing could this Belgian battle group be deployed within NATO's Fer de lance force? What are the limits of Belgian engagement within such a force? What is your assessment of the current air police mission in which Belgium participates? Will our participation in it be extended or renewed at a later date? Finally, and more broadly within NATO, what is our country's position vis-à-vis Russia in this context on the diplomatic and military level? How is NATO trying to participate in a de-escalation in the situation we are experiencing? Does the CSDP, in your view, have a complementary role to play in this context (e.g. humanitarian) in support of the EEAS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u103	Belgium, as a reliable NATO partner, must make its fair contribution to the NATO Response Force (NRF). To do this, our country participates by bringing a large detachment every 4 to 6 years. This is particularly the case in 2016 when Belgium decided to include the troops already planned for the NRF in 2016 in the NRF's Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF). In other years, Belgium participates with a small number of military personnel in certain specific capabilities. Our participation is therefore based on a multi-year contribution and not on 2016 alone. NRF troops can be engaged both for the collective defence of the Alliance and for a Crisis Response operation. The detachment participating in the VJTF is on 5 to 7 days' notice. In the event of the activation of the VJTF by a decision of the North Atlantic Council, the first place where the decision is taken, the Council of Ministers has yet to approve the deployment of the Belgian military. Here too, we respect the Constitution. Our contribution is therefore always subject to prior political authorization. Given the hypothetical nature of a real commitment, it is impossible to allocate a priori part of the Defence budget. For the financing of a possible actual engagement of an intervention force, Defence will apply the principle approved by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2008. The actual commitment decided on a case-by-case basis by the government will then be subject to exceptional budgets. These exceptional budgets will complement Defence Budget Commitments when the decision to participate is made. It's conditional. As part of the kidney measures included in the Readiness Action Plan approved at the NATO Summit in Wales in 2014, Belgium has also committed to providing a secondment of four F-16s. From Malbork base in Poland, during the first eight months of 2015, these aircraft contribute to the integrity of the airspace of the Baltic countries. The small increase in the number of intrusions demonstrates the effectiveness of such a device. Belgium has so far had to intervene less than ten times in incidents related to uncoordinated intrusions into airspace. However, the number of interventions has increased in recent weeks. Tomorrow, during the special commission, all explanations will be given. All Belgian interventions have been carried out in accordance with the international rules in force and have so far not resulted in any particular incident. NATO is currently in an evaluation phase of these kidney measures, including the increase in the air police mission for 2016. In the event of an extension of this measure, Belgium expressed its readiness to consider a new participation in 2016 on the basis of a specific NATO request. With regard to Belgium's position on Russia, I would ask you to address my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u104	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u105	Minister, on 27 May last, I asked you about the unequal treatment of orphans and orphans of political prisoners. I'm not going back to that. Beyond the context that you were able to provide me that day in an attempt to explain this situation, you also told me that you were prepared, through your delegate, to have this issue re-submitted to the Supreme Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims. Minister, since our last discussions, have you been able to submit this issue to the Supreme Council? If not, why? And if so, what was the result of your efforts? Has the Conseil Supérieur already provided you with a response, or when does it plan to do so? In addition, can you clarify to me the current composition of this High Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims? Finally, you told me that there was no official census of the orphans of soldiers killed in combat, which would partly explain the difficulty of considering and evaluating the extension of benefits to this category. It seems to me, however, that this statement should not be very difficult to carry out on the basis of defence archives or other government services. What exactly is the situation? What could explain that the orphans of political prisoners could be identified, but that the orphans of soldiers killed in combat could not be identified? In short, the fundamental question remains the same: what do you intend to do to finally put an end to this discrimination? Do you intend to amend the Royal Decree of 23 December 2002 quickly so that it will at last guarantee equal treatment for all orphans of war and orphans of political prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u106	Mrs Poncelet, as I had committed myself to it, the problem raised was transmitted by my delegate to the High Council of War Invalids, Veterans and War Victims, established by the Act of 8 August 1981. It includes members representing patriotic associations and associations of deportees, refractories and civilian victims of both wars. The Council will deliver an opinion at its next meeting in September. Finally, with regard to the census of orphans of soldiers killed in combat and the difference in treatment with orphans of political prisoners, it should be noted that, for the latter, recognition commissions had been set up after the Second World War. They came from the Department of Reconstruction, so that there are individual documents recognizing the character of the persons entitled to them. This is not the case for orphans of soldiers killed in combat. The Defence archives or the national registry do not take over the status of orphan of a soldier killed in combat. In conclusion, the Conseil Supérieur will decide in September on possible discrimination as well as on the possible need to adapt the regulations or any other means to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-08-54-commissie-ic219x.u107	Minister, we will wait until September. I will come back to ask you about this after the Council meeting. Thank you for your answer.
