ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u1	Mr President, I wish you and the Secretary of State the best for the coming year. My first question of the year concerns the Dublin regulation, Mr Secretary of State. You have also heard that Switzerland has been convicted of a specific case of transfer to Italy. However, the Dublin Regulation has a lot of safeguards in itself with regard to human rights. Before a person is transferred, it is necessary to consider whether an asylum procedure can indeed be followed by the person being transferred and whether there is a reception option for the person. Given the current situation in Italy, I wonder how Belgium will deal with such a statement. Does it influence the policy that has been pursued in recent months? Does Belgium regularly transfer persons to Italy? What nationality are the persons concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you the best for the new year and a great deal of work in Parliament. I am at your disposal and hope that we can have interesting debates. I also understand that a very interesting legislative proposal will be discussed later, which could solve many problems on the ground. It is therefore an important day today, including for unaccompanied minors. Think about the fuss about Navid Sharifi's file. I hope that Parliament will vote on the proposal today, in all its wisdom. Firstly, Belgium took note of the concerns expressed by the European Court in the Tarakhel case against Switzerland on 4 November. The exact scope of the judgment is being examined. It is likely to affect Belgium's policy on transfers to Italy under Dublin only to a limited extent. Dublin's Department of Foreign Affairs cell has already looked at every case-by-case transfer file, but will now, temporarily, ask Italy for specific guarantees in relation to families with minor children, as in the case files where this was already necessary. We will therefore ask for specific guarantees on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Tarakhel judgment for the files of families with minor children. We will ask for detailed information on the specific accommodation and physical reception conditions, and how family unity is guaranteed. Secondly, there were 253 transfers to Italy in 2013 in the context of a takeover or withdrawal in accordance with the Dublin Convention. In 2014, there were 114 transfers to Italy until November. The figures for December have not yet been included. Of the 114 transfers there were only two involving families with minor children. It was about three kids. So that's a small group. I would also like to tell you about the nationalities, Mrs Dumery: nine Nigerians, eight Afghans, seven Iranians, six people from the Democratic Republic of Congo, six Algerians, five Syrians, five Pakistanis, four Senegalese, four Armenians, three people from Burkina Faso, three from Georgia, three from Somalia, three from Turkey and 39 from other countries, each less than three. So, in total, there are 114, calculated until November, because the December figures are not yet in the statistics, but we are fully processing them. We're working on it. It is a small group and we always ask for guarantees. In fact, the first European JAI I was allowed to go to was discussed for a very long time. You follow European policy closely and know that Italy was then President of the European Union. The discussion was sensitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive reply. I believe that the emphasis should indeed be placed on the European story, as is very often the case when it comes to migration. We must be vigilant, but the Dublin Agreement is a solid agreement with guarantees on human rights, whereby every individual Member State that has to apply it can be given the necessary guarantees to integrate human rights into the legislation itself. I am pleased that, on the basis of concrete case law, we are also examining in our country whether we need to change our policies and that, as far as families are concerned, unity is important for a transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u4	Question No 824 by Mrs Zakia Khattabi is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 11 December last you announced the closure of 2,057 reception places and the conversion of 845 of them into "buffer places". Apart from any consideration related to your asylum policy, these closures also represent job losses for the staff of the centres or private partners responsible for managing and accompanying refugee candidates. For Virton's only centre, it is no less than 34 jobs that are thus threatened by what must be called a collective redundancies plan. And this without any other form of social consultation, it would seem, is a press release delivered at the end of the Council of Ministers. Secretary of State, my questions are as follows. How many jobs will they lose as a result of the decision you made? How do you break them down in the various reception centres and initiatives affected by this measure? What social consultation are you planning to carry out with the workers thus deprived of their jobs? What reclassification measures are you going to take to keep staff in employment, whether in other reception centres or other departments depending on your skills and in line with each other's qualifications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u6	Mr President, Mr Pirlot, I am responding to the three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u7	In that case, it may be better if Mr. Kir, who has just arrived, asks you his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u8	Mr President, Mr Franken, like my colleague Pirlot, I would like to dwell on the closure of the 2,057 reception places. You announced this on 11 December, when, while the crisis of reception which our country has been through seems to be resolved today, the increase in international tensions and conflicts in nearby areas indicates that Belgium will still have to assume its fair share in international efforts to welcome the affected populations in the near future. This decision seems to be aimed in particular at individual reception facilities, which are less costly for the public authorities and easier to mobilise in the event of massive influxes of refugee candidates. They are also more respectful, in our view, of the privacy of the candidates concerned. Furthermore, closing a centre is a relatively easy decision to make, but opening one and ensuring its proper integration into the social fabric of the area where it is open is a completely different matter. It is very difficult to get local people to accept it at times. For example, the Virton Centre has been open for 18 years! My additional questions to Mr Pirlot's are as follows. What exactly are the structures affected by the announced measures? What criteria have been identified? Has this been done in consultation with the municipalities of the territories concerned? Do these structures welcome refugee candidates on the day of decision-making? If so, what will be their fate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u9	Mr Kir, first of all I wish you all the best for the new year. For practical reasons and in view of the congruence of the questions asked, the honourable members, who are the authors of the oral questions, will find below grouped answers to their respective questions. I can confirm that a decrease of 2,057 places has been decided, including 845 buffer places. The structures concerned are federal centres: the closure of the Virton centre and the closure of MENA squares and NGO host partners and some local reception initiatives (ILA). The places were chosen on the basis of several criteria in relation to the government agreement. First, the needs and requirements of the new reception model: priority to collective reception, individual reception for recognized refugees and vulnerable target groups. Secondly, the coherence between asylum and reception policy. Thirdly, the flexibility of reception, its rationalisation and harmonisation and, finally, the balanced distribution between the different partners and types of reception. The local authorities concerned were contacted by the Agency as soon as the decision of the Council of Ministers was taken. Given the savings measures announced, the employment contracts of the 34 Fedasil staff members were terminated on January 2, 2015. The staff in question will receive the legally prescribed break-in allowance. Fedasil is not in a position to organise the reclassification of staff within the Agency. A briefing was held on Thursday 18 December with the trade unions. It was also that same day that we held a debate in Parliament on the budget. The reception facilities are currently partially occupied. The Agency shall take the necessary steps to inform and transfer the residents concerned under the best conditions to other similar reception facilities. Some structures have been closed since January 1, while others will be closed in the course of 2015, depending on the lease agreements or the notice to be given. At this stage, it is too early to have an overall view of all the reception facilities concerned, since legal procedures must be followed and are in progress. For Virton Centre, 34 people are affected. Honourable members, I believe that I have responded to the concerns expressed by each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u10	We have discussed it several times, Mr Kir. It's a difficult decision. We're closing a lot of places now. All candidate refugees have shelter. The previous government has closed many more places. This is in itself a common law: if there is a capacity utilisation rate of 73 % and one has to save, then I think one should close places. With the buffer stations, we can create sufficient reception capacity in the short term. We are now dealing with the Syrian crisis. All European Member States are affected by the situation in Syria and Iraq. You said at some point that an e-mail was sent, but there has indeed been telephone and personal contact, at many times. The directors were briefed on Friday 12 December at 10:00. I received the Red Cross on Friday, 12 December, at 12.00 p.m. and the cities and municipalities at 1.00 p.m., while a staff meeting was held on the same day at 3.00 p.m. A great deal of information has been provided. Fedasil, specifically Mr. Luxen and his team have made a real effort to inform everyone, even if it was bad news. That's bad news. However, they acted correctly, responded correctly and informed the parties concerned in good time. First, however, there had to be a decision by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers decided on 12 December. The Council of Ministers decided on Friday, 12 December. It was only after this decision that it was possible to inform the directors of the centres and the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I very much agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. You are starting from the criteria that you announced during our various discussions, namely collective reception and individual reception for recognized political refugees. In addition, there are more specific situations. You also mentioned the difficulty of having a comprehensive view of the whole policy. I have to tell you I'm not at all reassured. Indeed, you are committed to doing more to welcome future Syrian refugees. But we must also take into account all those who are facing other problems in some countries; I think, in particular, of the countries affected by the Ebola epidemic. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the municipalities that are now called upon to receive refugees, sometimes in unspeakable conditions, namely in buildings that are not suitable for this purpose. These are not old nursing homes, old hospitals or old homes. Political refugee candidates are even trying to find a solution for themselves. However, reception is your responsibility. Your responsibility is to welcome and protect people facing war, epidemic situations in their country of origin. I shall come back tomorrow, on the occasion of topical questions, to this situation which I shall call thorny. Having said that, I am surprised to see that, after two months of your Government's operation, you are willing to close a centre when the international situation is the worst warning at the humanitarian level. It is quite surprising to see that you do not defend your department, that you do not maintain the capacity to receive when we are faced with emergency situations. But we will resume this debate in a few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u13	Since Mrs Smeyers has arrived in the meantime, she can now ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, my best wishes for the new year. In your policy statement, you have made it clear that you want to continue and even step up your efforts to re-establish residents of serious conflict areas such as Syria and Iraq. In 2015, their number will even double, from 150 as previously agreed to 300. For 2014 it was foreseen that 100 refugees, of which 75 Syrians, would come to Belgium in the framework of resettlement. Last week, 22 Syrian refugees landed in Zaventem. At the airport they were received by CGVS and Fedasil. This involved 16 families with children and 4 single people who were pre-selected by the CGVS on the basis of interviews. Earlier, these people were appointed by the United Nations as the most vulnerable group. These refugees were then prepared by Fedasil for their arrival in Belgium. They will now spend several weeks in the centers of Fedasil and will be prepared for an independent life here. This support will also come from several OCMWFs where they will always be accommodated in individual reception facilities. It is already 2015 and in the course of the next weeks the other groups will also arrive here. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me more about the selection and criteria used by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless? Will the selection, which took place in 2014, and will the criteria be followed in the same way in 2015? Can you tell me a little more about the further guidance of the refugees who have already arrived and who will be coming in the future? How is this organised and how is the follow-up planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u15	Mrs Smeyers, my best wishes too, and I wish you every success. As I said earlier, today is an important day, because a very important legislative proposal is being discussed in this committee today and I hope that the vote on it will be positive. Since 2013, Belgium has a structural resettlement programme embedded in the European resettlement programme. Our country will continue to do so in the coming years, as included in the coalition agreement. The 2014 quota was set by the previous Secretary of State at 100, of which 75 places for Syrian vulnerable refugees who fled the Syrian conflict. Indeed, the first group of 22 arrived a few weeks ago, they were re-established from Turkey. Contrary to what has appeared in the press, there are five families with children and three single people. The previous Secretary of State decided that this group of 75 should be selected during a selection mission carried out by CGVS staff. The previous government asked the UNHCR to present the refugees from one of the three countries most under pressure as a result of the Syrian refugee crisis, in particular Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey. UNHCR finally decided to nominate the refugees from Turkey for 2014. The main selection criterion is the need for protection of these refugees. In order to be accepted, refugees should be covered by the definition of refugee as laid down in the 1951 Convention on Refugees, the Geneva Convention. Furthermore, Belgium has been asked to focus, if possible, on vulnerable refugees belonging to the sub-categories "women at risk' or "women at risk'. The latter is about people with different sexual orientations. On the basis of these criteria, UNHCR submitted the dossiers to Belgium after a very thorough screening of the refugees. The CGVS then carried out a selection mission in Turkey and interviewed all adult refugees. During these interviews, most of the following cases are verified. Firstly, refugee status. Secondly, the current fear of refugees and indications of exclusion or problems of public order. The latter seems obvious to me. An opinion is also requested on the security of the State. On the basis of the information collected, the CGVS provided an opinion for selection to the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, who then instructed DVZ to draw up visas for the selected group of travel documents, laissez passes and, if necessary, for the arrival in Belgium. On 19 November 2014, I indeed decided to extend the quota for 2015 to 300, of which 250 places for refugees who fled the Syrian conflict. I made this decision following UNHCR's call to the resettlement countries to increase their quotas for vulnerable Syrian refugees, whose numbers are still increasing on a daily basis. The number of Syrian refugees in the region currently exceeds 3.2 million. The implementation of this 225 quota should be further developed in close consultation with UNHCR. For the selection I will follow the same process as for the 75 refugees selected in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is clear that you are on the same path. You explained that. I think this is the correct method to ensure that these are actually the most vulnerable refugees. That is also the intention of resolution. I can only conclude that the right decision has been taken to raise the number from 150 to 300. You mentioned the harrowing number of 3.2 million Syrian refugees. Our share in that is not large, but I think it is good that this has already doubled. In this sense, we are making an effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u17	I would like to say something further. I read in the newspaper yesterday that some people think our country is hypocritical when it comes to the Syrian refugee flow. In view of the doubling, I wonder if the previous government was twice as hypocritical. I think we are doing our best and it is not easy. We recognize more than 95% of them. There's a lot going on. In November, the largest group from the Ebola countries, in particular Guinea, arrived. In December, that was the Syrian refugee stream. That's going to keep going up and up. The number from Iraq remains fairly stable. In December alone, there were more than 230 refugees from Syria, and as you know, the services were closed for a few days in December. That's a very large group, but CGVS recognizes most people within three weeks. So we're doing our best. Can we do more? One can always do more, but one must also look at the carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-07-54-commissie-ic045x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I can only confirm that, at European level and with the Geneva Convention on a global scale, we are doing what we can, in addition to the normal process of recognition. It happens within three weeks, which is very fast. It has indeed been in the news that almost all Syrian refugees are recognised, that is only right. In addition, we increase the resettlement to 300. We are doing more than our best to ensure that everything is respected and proportionate. Thank you for that, I can only be satisfied with that policy.
