ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, in 2014 we had some strike days. Some companies have taken initiatives to facilitate commuting on strike days for those willing to work. It seems to me to be a good thing to give people who want to work the opportunity and the means to do so. As far as I'm aware, this happened without distinction in the position or grade of the employees. A private company can, of course, organise such a thing by itself. In the case of public companies, too, I expect that the facilitation and efforts made are the same for all staff. That's what my question is about. More specifically, I am thinking of two companies for which you are responsible, namely SNCB and Infrabel. The facilitating approach was applied in these companies in a completely different way. Some workers wanted to be driven to their place of employment with service vehicles, but that was not recommended to them and in some cases prohibited. It seems that it was not appropriate to bring people to their destination, because their commitment and the work they have to do is not considered vital. On the other hand, many other staff were driven to Brussels by taxi, as the trains were not available, especially on the strike day of 15 December, although questions may also be asked about their presence at work for the running of trains and the like, that day. I have questions about that. These people often occupy an important role, but they do not play a role in terms of the safety of trains. Moreover, not a single train kilometer was driven that day. That is a remarkable situation. Again, it is more specific about the difference in approach according to the function of the staff. Madam Minister, how was it made easier for the willing to get to work during those strike days and especially on 15 December? Was or was not the use of own means of transport used? How many taxi rides were used to take staff from Infrabel and SNCB to their place of employment? How many employees were involved? What type of staff? Finally, what is the total cost of the advanced taxi rides?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u2	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, SNCB informs me that in a very limited number of cases several options have been proposed to staff, namely the provision of service vehicles from the SNCB fleet on 8 and 15 December, the use of own vehicles with reimbursement of costs, the use of a taxi, overnight stay at a hotel for some executives and working in decentralised stations or workplaces that were not affected by the strikes. These options were developed in the light of the needs of the services, including to ensure the safety of the building, the infrastructure and, of course, the safety of the employees. At Infrabel, there is no general scheme for facilitating the work of those who are willing to get to work during action days. According to Infrabel, forty-eight employees had to be taken to their workshop by taxi during the strike days, accounting for about sixty taxi rides. These were mainly staffed in the signalling posts or ICT personnel. An invoice of EUR 3 377.36 is mentioned for these movements. SNCB, for its part, does not have such statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I assume you agree with me that such practices do not fit in with a public body. Even though there are no figures available for SNCB, I believe that, according to the information I have at my disposal, such things are happening there. I urge you to address this during subsequent consultations and to pay sufficient attention to it, because this point is very sensitive to the staff of SNCB and Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question concerns the electrification of one of the last unelectrical lines in our country, namely the route between Antwerp and the north of Limburg, namely Neerpelt-Hamont. Meanwhile, it was decided to start electrification from Herentals to Mol and the works are in full swing. However, there is now a great deal of concern because there is uncertainty about the continuation of electrification on the further route, i.e. from Mol to Neerpelt-Hamont. During the previous legislature it was always said that the works on this route would be carried out in two parts. However, we do not yet have a look at the studies on the electrification of this second part. Are studies planned and resources available to quickly electrify the further route as soon as the electrification to Mol is completed? Of course, it would be inconceivable for the passengers concerned to get on the electric train in Antwerp and then change to a diesel train in Mol and then enter Limburg. Nor do I think this is the intention of you as Minister. It would be good if we could have a look here at the implementation of that second phase of electrification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u5	The electrification of Herentals-Mol is indeed foreseen by the current planning by the end of 2015. The electrification Mol-Hamont is not foreseen in Infrabel's multiannual investment programme 2013-2025. However, this multiannual programme still provides for resources to be filled in with priority projects for regional authorities. Flanders has included Mol-Hamont electrification in the priority projects. However, the implementation of the budgets for regional projects is still part of further negotiations between federal and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u6	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you know when these negotiations between SNCB and the Flemish Government will be concluded? When will this become clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u8	So I get to ask my question again next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, many of my questions will be about the new transportation plan. Rather than addressing it as a whole, I preferred to highlight the most problematic lines, particularly in Hainaut. In this case, I would like to take stock with you of the situation of commuters from Mouscron. They have been penalized, since they have only one direct line per hour leading them to Brussels. Moreover, the journeys have been substantially extended, the least we can say. Indeed, these travellers lose 30 minutes daily. It's obviously huge. The situation is actually much more serious. Greater reliability in terms of schedules had been promised. This had, in a way, justified the lengthening of the journeys. We note, however, that there has been no improvement in this regard. Thus, a survey was carried out for a week on the Mouscron-Brussels line. We were able to record that one in two trains were late or cancelled. It's obviously more than embarrassing for these commuters. On the other hand, and you may reassure me in this area, some have referred to the closure of the ticket offices at the Mouscron station. I haven't read any official announcements at this point. Minister, I would therefore like you to tell me more. Has any thought been given to this? Or are you committed to maintaining these windows? I would remind you that Mouscron is not a small town and that in terms of access to Picardy Wallonia, it is, of course, central.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Tournai-Mouscron section is concerned, the analysis of the use of the various sections of the lines has revealed that there is too little occupation of the trains in off-peak hours to justify the maintenance of two relations cadenced per hour. It was thus decided under the new transport plan that the basic service on this section would consist of a relationship between IC Courtrai-Mouscron-Tournai-Brussels, with stops at Herseaux and Froyennes. However, in rush hour, this offer is complemented by two P trains in the morning, connecting Mouscron to Brussels, and two P trains in the evening, connecting Brussels to Mouscron. During the morning peak leaving Mouscron, one can also count a P train between Mouscron and Tournai and three P trains towards Mons. A similar offer is planned in the evening in order to maintain an expanded service when the number of customers is highest. With regard to the closure of the ticket office at the Mouscron station, the SNCB informs me that it is not on the agenda. The SNCB, on the other hand, calls on local authorities to pay more attention to the use of facilities and their surroundings by some disruptive individuals who are likely to dissipate customers and discourage them from using their services. I would remind you that on 4 February the two CEOs will be present in committee to discuss the new transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u11	Minister, it had not escaped that on February 4th there was to be a debate about the unfulfilled promises of the transportation plan. I understood that closing the window was not on the agenda. They're just rumors, but I expect you to commit yourself to this. Enough windows have been closed in a series of stations. The Mouscron station is important and its window must be maintained. As far as the line is concerned, you only answer me on one point. You are trying to justify the removal of a link between Mouscron and Brussels. Apart from the unfortunate decision to abolish one train per hour, if at least those remaining were on time, I could follow in part your reasoning. In addition, the journey time has been extended by 15 minutes! All this together creates an untenable situation. And, not only do you not respond to this aspect of things, but you do not make any commitment to it. Of course, we will be here on February 4th to provide a province-by-province update on the problems created by the new transportation plan. But you are not only the notary of SNCB! I expect you, when there are black dots, to measure your responsibilities and commit yourself to activate the resolution of untenable situations at the SNCB level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u12	Madam President, I may not be the notary of SNCB, but I am at least responsible for the implementation of a plan voted by my predecessors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u13	Mrs Fonck, you can answer the minister, but that is not the practice in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u14	Madam Chair, I also did not know that it was a habit that the minister could answer. I find out. Nevertheless, the Rules allow parliamentarians to have the last word. For the transport plan, the promise, the commitment made, was that it would allow, through the revision of schedules and lines, a punctuality according to the timetables announced. For me, it is this point that is not respected at all today. Minister, today your responsibility is to enforce what has been announced: new schedules, changes to lines. It's up to you to make sure the commuters arrive at the announced times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u15	As planned, we will hold a major debate on the transport plan in the first week of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the new traffic plan is not running smoothly, as we have heard many complaints. The train connection between Brussels and De Panne also leaves something to be desired. Pendants using this line during peak hours are absolutely not rewarded. We were hoping for punctual trains, but that has not become a reality. There are still more delayed or delayed trains than there are trains running on time. In addition, it is recommended to switch to Gent-Sint-Pieters to keep travel time within limits. We have already asked you about the capacity on that Brussels-De Panne railway line. Then you told me that the double deck trains would be replaced by single deck trains but that a hundred seats would be added. We were satisfied with that answer back then. In practice, however, both trains from Brussels and those from Gent-Sint-Pieters are overcrowded. The large number of wagons makes the flow within these trains very difficult. Finally, one cannot call the outdated trains, which we got in return for the double deck trains, really comfortable. Passengers commuting on this rail line four to five hours a day for their commuting cannot in fact speak of an improvement. I am sure that you, like us, are striving for a smooth and clocky train link between Brussels and De Panne. Do you recognise the pain points mentioned on the Brussels-De Panne railway line following the introduction of the new timetable? Are you prepared to adjust the timetable on this railway line after evaluation where necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u17	SNCB lets me know that there are indeed a few sore points on the Brussels-De Panne railway line. These pain points are mainly in the area of punctuality, especially during the evening peak. According to SNCB, this reduced punctuality does not have much to do with the new transport plan, but mainly with a large number of incidents, such as equipment failures or infrastructure failures and incidents by third parties. Every effort is made to bring the punctuality on this line to an acceptable level as quickly as possible. On certain trains an overcrowding was indeed established. However, the offer on line 73 has not been reduced in terms of the number of seats offered. On the contrary, SNCB increased the number of seats offered by 50% during morning and evening peaks. The overcrowding is partly caused by delays caused by the fact that some trains can offer fewer seats than planned due to the unavailability of the planned train equipment or technical incidents. In those areas where a structural overcrowding is established, intervention shall be taken as soon as possible, provided that sufficient equipment is available. SNCB is therefore following this trend very closely. In December 2014, SNCB's central customer service received six complaints about the Brussels-De Panne railway line and none in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u18	Madam Secretary, I am glad that you acknowledge that there are problems. It might be a good thing that more travellers should complain, but my concern is mainly with the employee and the student affected in the morning and evening pits. There is an urgent need for re-direction. It will certainly not be your intention for SNCB to reject its passengers and customers in this way. I hope that the current situation will be adjusted with a number of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u19	Minister, Brussels Airport has recently announced that it will begin a programme in 2015 to renovate its take-off and landing runways. This work would consist of the renovation of the asphalt surface, the drainage and drainage system and, finally, the electrical marking system. The airport indicated that the first part of the site will be completed in May on Runway 25L/07R and that similar work will be carried out on the other two runways over the next few years. The work will be carried out in several phases in order to limit their impact on the capacity and preferential use of the tracks. Information for local residents would be organized. This announcement of work is to be seen in parallel with the intentions that you stated loud and clear in the government agreement, which provides, I quote, "to develop a structural and definitive solution" to the noise nuisances around the Brussels-National airport, examining in particular "investments in airport infrastructure". I therefore have three questions related to this issue. What will be the delay in traffic generated by this project on the other runways? Which geographical areas will therefore be affected primarily? At what times, how long and in what volume? As foreseen in the Government Agreement, are other "investments in airport infrastructure" planned? I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of rolling back the runways to the east, which could perhaps allow the aircraft to avoid the most densely populated areas. The construction site announced by Brussels Airport is, I believe, an opportunity to seize in this respect, in any case in terms of impact study and project study. Has this downhill assumption been studied under this renovation program? If so, what are the conclusions? What would be the environmental impact in terms of reducing the number of people flying, linked to the investment needed to extend the routes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u20	Minister, work is announced for May. It is therefore essential for the inhabitants concerned to be informed in full transparency of the impact of this work in terms of the use of runways and the trajectory of the aircraft. How long will work take on Runway 25L/D7R? What will be the impact on the availability of this track? What consequences will this work have on the use of the Brussels-national tracks? What commons will be impacted in terms of reducing noise pollution by changing the use of runways? How will the population concerned be informed on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u21	The work will be carried out in three phases between 27 May 2015 and 7 September 2015. From May 25 to August 3, runway 25L/07R will not be available. From August 3 to August 15, runway 25L/07R will also not be available. From the 1st to the 19th... this will be the most difficult period to manage of course. From August 15 to September 7, runway 25L/07R will not be available overnight. The maintenance work that started in May is a thorough renovation of the runway. They are exceptional in that they have to be done about every thirty years depending on the state of deterioration of the runway. This includes, among other things, the renewal of asphalt layers, the refitting of docks, the refitting of the runway drainage system, the refitting of the runway drain and the replacement of the electrical marking system with a less energy-efficient LED markup. This work is not linked to any changes in airport infrastructure but is essential for aviation safety. During this period, traffic will be ensured on the remaining runways. The use of runways during the work will be determined later by Belgocontrol in consultation with the airport according to the nature of the work. DGTA has already asked Belgocontrol to publish a supplement to the aeronautical information publication by 19 February. This document will contain mainly the phases of the work and their impact on slots and airport capacity, as well as the effects on the preferential runway system. Brussels Airport company is in the process of producing a written communication which will be distributed to more than 375,000 copies in the vicinity of the airport, the Brussels and periphery municipalities, as well as to NATO, the European Union and Defence. It will also be available for download on the website to be presented in early February.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u22	I understand that the citizens will be informed. But you did not answer on the aspect of the study of the lengthening of the tracks. Does this have nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u23	No, this has nothing to do with it. This maintenance work, to be carried out every thirty years, is indispensable. This has nothing to do with any infrastructure work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u24	The government agreement envisaged possible investment in airport infrastructure. You can still confirm here that it is not because the existing track is being renovated that the possible solution of extending the tracks is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u25	This work will be used to improve safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u26	It's not contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u27	I thank the minister for her response. I really think it is essential to inform the citizens, the communes and the other areas which would be overflying much more intensively because of the non-use of these tracks during the work. For the rest, I think we'll meet again soon, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u28	Madam Minister, I have already asked your predecessor questions about the railway crossing at the Lispersteenweg in Lier to know how many times it is closed one day. This shows that the crossing per day closes about 216 times with an average duration of 2 minutes and 40 seconds. All in all, that amounts to about 10 hours a day. In the press, Infrabel wrote that it might be the busiest way around the country. The introduction of the new transport plan has further increased waiting times. In addition, there is a problem with the new call signal. This does not appear to be audible when you are in a car, and this has already led to dangerous situations on a number of occasions. On this basis, Lier's local police contacted SNCB. The story of that phone call is rather hallucinatory and certainly not repeatable. After three attempts it was possible to catch someone from SNCB, in particular the sub-chief platform in Lier, who did not want to release his name, which does not make communication much easier. The man had not yet received any complaints about the call signal, but could inform the police that the longer waiting times are a permanent one. He also noted that, if the city of Lier can't live with it, she would have to put money on the table to dig a tunnel. Madam Minister, I expected a slightly different attitude from a public body. I come to my questions. What's your vision on the whisper-silent bell signal on the road? Do you not fear that this will result in an increase in the number of accidents being considered? Can you confirm that the waiting times at this level have increased and that this is a permanent fact? Can you tell us what the correct impact is? Do you think it is acceptable that a public service should deal with questions from other public authorities in this way? What steps are you taking to avoid that in the future? Will you address the person responsible on the spot? Mr Magnette replied during the previous parliamentary term, which was confirmed by Mr Labille, that the road in question was to be abolished. How is this going to happen and when are we going to take steps forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u29	Mr President, in general, Infrabel receives complaints from local residents who experience the new sound as too loud or from local residents who experience the sound as too weak. The new sound is directional by the way, this means that the sound is specifically directed at those places where it should be most audible. Furthermore, Infrabel studies how the bubbles can be optimally targeted. Of course, road lights and barriers must also be respected by the road user. Specifically for the intended crossing in Lier it has been found that there was a fault of the bell, which explains the limited audibility. In the meantime, this defect has been repaired. The reason for the fact that the road is closed for a long time has to do with the station of Lier. In the adjacent zone lies the Lispersteenweg and Lier is also a busy station. If there is any need to change this, the whole rail configuration on the ground must be adapted, and that is a very drastic intervention. Infrabel is aware of the waiting times and has therefore already done a few small interventions to reduce the time when the crossing is closed. For example, the crossing does not close immediately, as usual when a train arrives at a station. The barriers to the crossing only close when the train guide is A.D.G. has served. As regards the waiting times on the road, Infrabel currently has no objective data to assume that the waiting times on the Lispersteenweg would be longer than before. In the context of its safety strategy, Infrabel wishes to remove the road on the Lispersteenweg, like any other road. It is important to know that the deletion of any route is always a consensus between the railway and the road manager. The building permit and financing are part of an agreement between Infrabel and the city of Lier. Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan 2013-2025 provides for limited resources for the coming years. In addition, additional savings were imposed for the coming years 2016-2019, the impact of which is not yet known. Infrabel has already sat around the table twice in the past with representatives of the city of Lier: in the previous legislature about two years ago and before about ten years ago. Infrabel remains open to seek possible solutions together with the city administration. The past has shown that the city of Lier has not been actively involved in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. The bell's broken. It happens. Abolishing that road is a very difficult matter. You forgot another meeting. This legislature has also come to see Infrabel. Their plan was to cover half of our Innernete to extend the Lispersteenweg for a kilometer. It is quite ambitious to resolve this in this way. In addition, there is also the plan for the second track opening, in which there was a proposal to solve the problem with that road. I know that no choice has yet been made as to which route it will be, but there are a number of options that need to be looked at further. In any case, I will continue to monitor the waiting times. Maybe I will put a written question on that. We have already had contact with Infrabel about how this is handled. It seemed very strong to me that a local Vice-President, Mr Perron, made a number of statements which clearly went in a very different direction from the answer you are giving. I've heard he'll be called to our mayor's office. I will inform you as soon as we have any interesting information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, you know that because a notice of strike had been laid, anger roared among the railwaymen of Charleroi. This is not about the entry into force of the new timetables, on which you have been repeatedly questioned, but about the problem of permanent insecurity on lines passing through Charleroi. A new attack kind of set fire to the powders. It occurred in Malines on 6 January 2015 on the line between Charleroi and Antwerp. This line is considered among the least secure in the country. A train attendant from Charleroi was brutally assaulted and beaten while he was defenceless on the ground. This man is traumatized and unable to work. For the railway workers of the region, this aggression is the aggression of too many, especially after the wave of aggressions that took place last year on line 112 between Charleroi and Mons. The notice of strike was therefore filed. He's been suspended for now. Minister, what are you thinking or considering by SNCB to improve the safety of this line? Will the alarm cry of the railwaymen be taken into account? How many security officers are available for this line? Shouldn't there be a larger deployment given that this line is, as I told you, considered one of the least secure in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u32	Mr Massin, we are well aware of the fact that some serious events took place on a few sections of the line and at the very particular stopping points around Charleroi. Since these attacks, I have asked for action to be taken. Thus, the Securail service is present on a maximum of trains running on line 112. Since 13 October 2014, the Charleroi Securail service has escorted 699 trains. In addition to increasing the deterrent presence on trains, other specific measures were taken, such as the removal of dock shelters in Forchies, where many young people came to gather in the evening and created a sense of insecurity among staff and travellers. Contacts have also taken place between the commune of Forchies and the Stations direction which manages the stations in order to clear the terrain around the Forchies stop point and to improve the lighting of the docks. These measures are being implemented. The relevant SNCB services met on 12 January 2015 with the mayor of Fontaine-l'Évêque, the chief of corps of the Trieux-Forchies police zone and a representative of the SPC federal police. They asked them to increase their presence around the Forchies stop point and on trains running on line 112, because the Securail agents are quite poor in terms of their means of intervention on trains if they were to be confronted with armed men. The SNCB also remains in constant contact with the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office. The train escort measurements represent two teams of two security officers on duty from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and on duty from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m. dedicated to the monitoring of trains operating on line 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for line 112 but, as far as I know, the Charleroi-Anvers line is line 124! However, there was a serious fact on January 6, 2015, which was included in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u34	In your question, this is line 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u35	I repeat what I said. A new attack set the powders on fire. It occurred in Malines on 6 January 2015 on the line between Charleroi and Antwerp. This line is considered to be one of the least secure in the country. The train attendant was brutally assaulted and beaten while he was defenceless on the ground. This man is traumatized and unable to work. For the railway workers, this led to the filing of a notice of strike, which was suspended. This was on line 124. Can you give me a quick answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u36	Yes, there is no problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u37	Mr President, thank you. Madam Minister, I am sorry to disturb the programme somewhat, but I am going to ask my question now, because I have to go and chair the Social Affairs Committee. The Châtelet station has recurring problems. Moreover, your predecessors have already been questioned on this subject. This will therefore not be a novelty for SNCB. Indeed, many citizens complained about the state of the underground at this station - among the most important in Wallonia in terms of the yard - and about the inadequate opening hours of the large hall, as well as about changes on the direct line to Brussels. As far as the subterranean to the docks is concerned, the subterranean is never cleaned and is invaded by a permanent nausea. I won't draw you! The large lobby of the station is closed at 1 p.m., forcing people to stay outside. Previously, a room was available when the large hall was closed, but this is no longer the case. So people have to stay outside, and you know like me that it's never pleasant – especially at this time! - to wait for the train in the cold or in the weather. In addition, this closure of the large hall obliges commuters to take their tickets to the automatic machines. Normally, this should not be a problem, but the latter often fail. From then on, commuters have to buy their tickets on the train – which, as you know, results in an extra cost. Besides, a controller is here to control the tickets, not to sell them. Finally, I come to changes in schedules. You probably know that the frequency of direct-line trains to Brussels has been reduced. The correspondence with the Charleroi station is not coordinated – Châtelet is located on the Walloon dorsal. As a result, clients are significantly behind schedule to reach their workplace. The passengers also called the attendant of the Châtelet station to ask the Charleroi station that the correspondence awaits. Unfortunately, the attendant was very unfavorable to this request. Minister, in relation to the underground, the large lobby of the station, what steps could be taken to improve the situation? Could you see as soon as possible with the SNCB how to make this station pleasant? Do you have any news about schedule changes? You said a little evaluation would be done after a while. I don't know if this has already been done for Châtelet station. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u38	The under-lane corridor is half unavailable for safety reasons due to work currently taking place in Châtelet. Renovation of the umbrella shelters on the wharfs and above the stairs of the subway corridor is currently under way. This work is expected to be completed in early May and allow travellers to be protected from the weather. For the time being, the maintenance of the remaining portion of the sub-lane corridor is very quickly damaged in view of the work being carried out. As soon as the works are completed at the beginning of May, the steps and walls will be sanded and the necessary repairs will be carried out in the under-lane corridor, including, among other things, those required for lighting. At the beginning of June, travellers should be able to have a corridor under roads in good condition. The waiting room is open until 1:00 p.m., as long as SNCB personnel are present, and given that the most important passenger flows occur during the morning rush hour. SNCB reviews internally what could be done to keep the waiting room open beyond 1:00 p.m. In the event of a solution being reached, however, the risks of damage to facilities which could be the basis of a challenge to access should not be underestimated. Just like the other 700 controllers, located all over the network, Châtelet's automation system offers an availability rate close to 100%. As proof, we want the tickets it issues every day, 771 in December and 656 from January 1 to 19. The use of these devices is user-friendly, they issue most transport tickets and accept debit, credit and coin cards as means of payment. The new transport plan, which will be discussed here in committee on 4 February, foresees seven possibilities of journeys from Châtelet to Brussels-Midi, for arrivals before 9 a.m. Of these seven possibilities, four P trains do not require a change of train in Charleroi-Sud. The old timetables provided for eight possibilities, including five direct P trains to Brussels-Midi. However, it was not possible to maintain the fifth direct train due to the lack of capacity on line 124 during peak hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u39	Madam Minister, thank you. Maybe I'll come back to you after May 2015 to see what's going on. I understand the numbers that are transmitted to you by the SNCB with regard to the automation. I asked you this question because it came back to me that the automaton was relatively frequently broken down. I can understand that the figures are not always in line with those of the users. Unfortunately, if I still have such complaints, I'll come back to you. As far as schedules are concerned, we will see how things progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u40	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor now for asking my question, and I thank the Minister for waiting. Madam Secretary, in the first three days of 2015, there were no less than eleven road deaths on our roads. We all know that we are not Europe's good pupil in this area. After three weeks, the counter even stood at twenty-five. In this way, 2015 is likely to be the year of road safety, I fear. One of the most serious accidents occurred on 2 January in Denderleeuw, when a truck drove into a row of cars for a traffic light, leaving three occupants of one car dead. Accidents involving trucks are demanding more and more lives on the road. According to the statistics, in 2014, the BIVV sees an increasing trend compared to previous years. Moreover, according to the BIVV, this increase is really not a coincidence. There are no explanations or obvious causes, but the BIVV requires a more in-depth study because it is seen that this increase cannot and will not continue. The Federal Road Safety Commission in the States-General in 2007 and 2011 called for more in-depth investigation into the causes of road accidents so that better action can be taken afterwards. The BART project, the Belgian Accident Research Team, met this. The main objective of the project was to understand the causes of road accidents. Like many of my fellow Members, I too am aware of the principle of measuring, because it really allows us to formulate policy recommendations to reduce the number of road deaths. Madam Minister, can you give me an update on the implementation of Recommendation 20 of the States General on Road Safety of 2007 and repeated in 2011? There was a problem with the legal framework of BART, can you give me an update there? I also know that there is a problem with budgets, can you say something more about that? In the light of regionalisation, the following. I don't know if that plays a role in the accident analysis. I know that you regularly consult with your Flemish, Walloon and Brussels colleagues, and I would have liked to know whether agreements could also be made on this issue. If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Temmerman, of course this also raises questions for me about the possible explanations for these different figures, both in terms of regions and categories of road users. I think that the BIVV itself is well placed to carry out in-depth research on this, but at the moment we can only base ourselves on general statements, such as the mild winter of 2013, the increase in the number of cyclists, the heavy accident between a truck and a passenger car with seven road deaths and so on. With regard to the implementation of the recommendations made by the States-General of Road Safety in 2011, I can only refer at this point to what my predecessors have done in this area. For example, there is a working group with representatives of Mobility, Justice, Police and the BIVV to discuss the legal framework for this investigation. However, no agreement has been reached on the establishment or designation of a single institute, or on the possible recognition of several research institutions; the modalities of cooperation with the police forces and their possible impact on judicial proceedings. I will now take up the direction of consultation with the police, justice and the BIVV, but also with the regions, which, in view of their competence in infrastructure and the newly regionalised powers, should be more closely involved in the development of the legal framework. The funding of the accident analysis should be in line with the budget of the BIVV, as determined by the regionalisation of some of its powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, in which you confirm my position, in particular: measuring is knowing. And since we don't measure, we can't know. You say that we do not know exactly the causes. It can be all kinds of factors, such as the increasing number of cyclists. We can only welcome the fact that there are more cyclists, but we must accept that there are more accidents, which goes a little too far. In the countries around us, accident analysis is being carried out, just to clarify the causes of accidents and what they need to work on. I urge you to do the same in Belgium. I find it inconceivable that we continue to discuss modalities while human lives are at stake. I am pleased that you want to take the initiative to restart the consultation and hope that results will be achieved there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u43	Mr President, I have adapted the question somewhat to current events. After years of pressing, SNCB has made an important investment and has significantly increased the platforms at Harelbeke station in order to improve the safety and comfort of the traveller. Those platforms were indeed far too low, which led to a lot of difficulties and even accidents when getting in and out. Both before, during and a few weeks after the works neither escalators functioned, including those for platform 1 towards Ghent. The investments made to increase the platforms are pointless if the escalators are not restored to bridge the height difference of 6 metres. During the inauguration it was also announced that the time clocks would be hung back in the station or on the platforms. Turns out they're still not hanging. In fact, I hear from staff that due to a technical problem, the canopy to which they need to be attached is not high enough now that the clocks cannot be hung back. Is it true that SNCB will be responsible for the maintenance of platforms and escalators and that, in other words, the power will change? In that case, will SNCB be given sufficient resources to ensure maintenance? From where are the escalators controlled? When the window is closed, will the escalators continue to work? If not, what's it gonna take? Finally, when will the time clocks be hung back? Are there indeed problems with the height of the roof? Is there a solution to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u44	Since 30 June 2013, the management of platforms and escalators pursuant to the Royal Decree of 11 December 2013 reforming the structures of SNCB-Holding, Infrabel and SNCB has been transferred to SNCB. The latter is responsible for maintenance and troubleshooting. In the transitional period until 30 June 2015, SNCB called on Infrabel to do so. The efficiency plan, which SNCB is working on at the beginning of 2015, will allow sufficient resources to be made available to ensure, inter alia, the maintenance of platforms. The escalators work 24 hours at 24 hours and will be included in the management system of the North-West area after the renewal. The operation is not linked to the opening hours of the counters. The bells are indeed placed back by Infrabel on behalf of SNCB. There is indeed a problem with the loft height, but that will be solved. Maybe the bells are coming over the stairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u45	I understand that there is a transitional period until 30 June 2015. Then I express the wish and hope that the escalators will be repaired properly and properly and that the necessary security checks will be carried out so that we do not again face repeated defects. I am pleased to learn that the operation of the escalators is included in the management system and that they will work 24 hours a day. That has not been the case so far. I'm a regular user of the systems myself. So far, the escalators stopped working after closing the window and in the event of a malfunction. The new regulation certainly means an improvement. I'm also glad there's a solution to the time clocking. The only regret is that there is no projection of the term. I'd say the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u46	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the problematic situation of several SNCB attendants' depots. To illustrate my point, I would like to start from the situation of the Mons depot. In fact, out of 62 officers, in fact 61, since there is already one missing, some 15 officers must also be subtracted, since they are unable to ride due to medical problems, to the secondment of an agent to a union or to permanent leave for retirement. With the exception of these officers, only 46 actual operational officers remain out of a planned total of 62. Unfortunately, this situation is not specific to the Mons deposit. Other deposits that are part of the same regional direction such as those of Saint-Ghislain, Tournai, Braine-le-Comte and Ath are experiencing the same problem. The situation of staff working in the field has become untenable and creates many difficulties, such as the systematic refusal of any request for leave, including annual leave. This has a significant impact not only on the service but also on the privacy of these agents. Are you aware of this situation? What measures do you intend to take to address this situation and the lack of agents in the various deposits concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u47	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that the situation is as follows. For Saint-Ghislain, Tournai and Ath, the number of train attendants corresponds to the number of agents required. In Mons and Braine-le-Comte, there is indeed a slight deficit. For both Mons and Braine-le-Comte, this deficit is due to a higher number of patients. In Mons, for example, 15% of the attendants are ill, while the percentage at the national level is 7%. Around June 2015, some 60 train attendants will be assigned to the depots in the French-speaking part of the country. This number of allocations should be sufficient to remedy the deficit in the deposits concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u48	Madam President, about 50 for the whole South of the country...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u49	About 60!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u50	So much for me. I do not imagine, however, that it is only for the South-West District, but for the whole South District. I can therefore only encourage you to work both for the quality and safety of the service and for the benefit of the workers: it would not be a matter of demobilising them by preventing them from planning their annual leave. That is why careful attention is needed in relation to deposits where the situation is most untenable. Finally, by your figures, you confirm the situation, at least for Mons and Braine-le-Comte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u51	Madam President, Minister, I am very pleased to be able to ask you this question. I had asked my collaborator to bring me my various documents. He came from Tournai; he took the train at 12:44 and arrived at the Brussels Central Station at 14:21, but finally arrived. It seems to me that at one time the steam train took 55 minutes to make Tournai-Brussels. As part of the plan to secure and renew the ringtones of all railway level crossings, the Havinnes level crossings have recently been renewed. They now benefit from the new ringtone – 'the sound that saves' – developed by Infrabel. However, it appears that this ringing is inaudible under normal conditions of use of a vehicle, which, you will agree, is problematic given the vital safety implications. In fact, the site has recently been the scene of two serious accidents, one of which is fatal. The municipal authorities have contacted Infrabel, who to date has not reacted. My question is from last week. Minister, have you ever had any feedback on a possible problem with the daudibility of the new bells? If not, I assume that the problem is limited to the level crossings of Havinnes and is due to a technical malfunction. Therefore, it is urgent that Infrabel intervene to resolve this problem before other dramatic accidents occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u52	Madam President, dear colleague, the public gradually comes into contact with the new bell. In general, Infrabel receives complaints from residents for whom the new ringing is too noisy and others for whom it is too weak. Besides, the new ringtone is directional, which means that the sound is specifically directed to the places where it must be the most audible. It goes without saying that Infrabel takes the complaints seriously and has therefore optimised the instructions for the placement of the new ringtones. Havinnes grade crossings will be brought into line with these new short-term instructions. It should not be forgotten that ringing is only one of the elements that should draw the attention of road users to the fact that a train will pass. Lighted road signs and barriers must also be respected by road users. For your perfect information, I was contacted by local residents for all of Havinnes' level crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you. If you've been contacted, it's a real problem. I hope that you will take the floor to resolve this problem. Level crossings are located in the fields. The danger is therefore greater because sometimes less attention is paid in this type of area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u54	Madam President, Minister, it seems that there is currently a negotiation procedure between the city of Antwerp and SNCB on the grounds of the former container terminal next to the yard of Antwerp-Oost. Apparently, it would be about a sale right now. A few months until more than a year ago, the negotiations were still about renting out those land. The area consists of 10.5 hectares and may be extended to 18.5 hectares. As part of the development of these areas, they wanted to take a similar initiative to another park, the Park Spoor Noord. That would result in two parks. It appears, as I have read, that the intention is to build a parking lot in Antwerp-East for the benefit of the Sports Palace and the Lotto Arena, in contrast to the previous plans to turn it into a park area. A park area seemed logical on the basis of the survey among local residents: 62 percent of them chose a park. Given that the neighborhood around it is very intense and densely populated, open space would, in our opinion, be very suitable. Park-Noord was then handed over by SNCB to the city administration for a symbolic euro in order to contribute to urban development. Madam Minister, is it true that there is now a sale rather than a rental, even though it was initially talked about rental? What sale price does SNCB have in mind? Is the claim that SNCB is aiming for a common supported agreement and therefore does not want to sell the land for the benefit of a car park or an event site? Is this also true in the context of the sustainable strategy and a sustainable green environment that SNCB wants to create? Does SNCB actually have a change of destination for those land?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u55	Madam President, the grounds of SNCB in Antwerp-East have no function in the context of rail transport. Given the budgetary framework of SNCB, a solution allowing short-term valorisation has therefore been preferred. The price is currently being negotiated. As the site no longer has a function in the context of rail transport, SNCB releases the buyer about the future destination. It is for SNCB to pursue the best possible financial return when selling land that is no longer useful, taking into account its social role.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand the budgetary framework. I understand that there must be a certain degree of valorisation, that we have discussed this on a number of occasions and will do so in the future, but ultimately the social commitment of a public body must also be placed in the context of spatial development. I hope, however, that SNCB will ensure that valuable open areas are not used to park cans only.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u57	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to return to one of the important black spots in the new transport plan on the Hainaut, namely the situation of commuters on the Quévy-Brussels line. Following this new plan, the Quévy-Mons-La Louvière line was set up to replace the Quévy-Bruxelles direct line. I do not understand very well the reason for this change since almost no commuter goes to La Louvière. However, the users of this line must change their train to Mons in order to travel to Brussels. This change has an extremely harmful effect for students who take the train to get from Quévy to Mons. Indeed, given the train cuts and delays, they no longer arrive at school on time, which is a real problem. To arrive in time, they should leave an hour and a half in advance. Moreover, commuters travelling to Brussels suffer major delays, while we know how important it is to keep these lines if we are to avoid saturating the entrance and the centre of Mons. In an attempt to objectify things, during the second and third weeks of January, I examined the official data on RailTime. I saw up to 116 minutes of journey from Frameries to Brussels-Nord instead of the 57 minutes announced, for several days in a row, even though no particular phenomenon (such as an accident) was to be deplored on the days in question. On 5 January, for example, the 7:05 a.m. train leaving Frameries arrived 31 minutes late in Mons. In Mons, the 7:49 train was 21 minutes late, so the commuters arrived in Brussels North at 9:20 a.m. On the other hand, it is very often the case that trains are removed successively. This includes trains at 0611 hours, 0628 hours and 0705 hours. This situation prevents students from arriving on time at their school in Mons. Minister, what can you provide as concrete answers? What solutions do you intend to offer to commuters? Indeed, it is impossible to be satisfied with this truly catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u58	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, during the week of 5 to 9 January, the punctuality of trains between Quévy and Mons and between Mons and Brussels was undermined by various incidents, including frost on the catenary on 5 January, damage to equipment and infrastructure on 6 January, an error in the performance of the service by a train driver and an attendant on 7 January, and a mistake in the work schedule in Mons on 8 January. Train 3706 was abolished on 5 January between Quévy and Mons, as the equipment did not arrive on time at destination due to the consequences of frost on the catenary. It was abolished on 6 January between Quévy and Brussels due to a locomotive failure. On 6 January, train 7801 was removed between Quévy and Mons as a result of operational problems at Mons due to the defective locomotive on train 3706. Train 7880 was deleted on January 7 between Quévy and Mons due to an error by the train attendant who was not present in time at Quévy. Punctuality improved during the week of January 12-16. Only train 7801 (Quévy 6:19 a.m.-Schaerbeek 7:37 a.m.) arrived in Brussels-Midi on 12 January and 15 January, respectively, 17 minutes late and 16 minutes late. These delays were due to the density of rail traffic on line 96, mainly from Hal where trains coming from line 94 coming from Tournai-Ath come to intercede. It is also noted that the punctuality of train 7880 (Quévy 6:55 a.m.-Mons 7:11 a.m.) is problematic. In principle, this train always leaves on time in Quévy, but is regularly delayed from 2 to 10 minutes between Quévy and Mons. The relevant services of SNCB are in the process of carrying out a detailed analysis on the basis of which they will take the necessary measures to improve punctuality. Of course, the redevelopment of the Mons station currently under way also has an impact on punctuality due to the possibility of restricted operation (reduction to 4 lanes). Real-time adaptation can only be done in a very limited way in the event of an incident. SNCB is looking for solutions to provide some latitude at Mons station. A specific Infrabel-SNCB working group has been set up to analyse in depth the various elements disrupt punctuality and thus find short-term solutions in order to improve the regularity of the various convoys transiting through Mons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you. At least it's not like in Mouscron, where you sent me a little bit on the roses! Here, you take the trouble of answering. I remember a few things. A breakdown can occur in any sector during an exceptional event. But the fact that this breakdown is repeated over time and becomes a habit is not acceptable. When you invoke the density of rail traffic, you will agree with me that this is not a novelty. In this case, the node is known at the level of Hal. But delays cannot be justified because of a different density than other days. It must be concluded that the transport plan has not kept its promises, since it is exactly the opposite that happens with regard to the increase in promised punctuality. Good if a specific working group is set up and there is an awareness of the seriousness of the situation. Let us try to move forward concretely and quickly so that this situation can be arranged for all commuters, both in the direction of Brussels and Mons, especially for students, and not only when the new train station in Mons is built. That would take us far too far!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I would like to refer once again to the budget debate we held in plenary on the night of 17 to 18 December. You then referred to irregularities and abuses within the SNCB Group. More specifically, you gave an example of the Eurostation subsidiary and the projects in so-called exotic destinations. It is certainly a good thing that the financial flows within the group are made transparent, especially with regard to the large number of subsidiaries. It is necessary for each subsidiary to be examined critically. You confirmed at a previous meeting that such an exercise is currently under way. This is important because it also implements the coalition agreement and the principles developed in the restructuring of the SNCB Group. In fact, this also implements the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors to Parliament in 2011. My questions relate specifically to the example Eurostation you took from the long list of subsidiaries during the debate in December. In Flanders, more specifically among the many local authorities where station projects are in progress, most Eurostation projects are being evaluated as successful. The mayors involved in the many large and small cities where such projects were carried out or are currently in progress generally appreciate the project approach and the added value generated for those station environments. It is an added value in different areas, spatial, social, economic and financial. As you know, Eurostation focuses mainly on Brussels and Flanders. For me, it is less clear whether there is a similar evaluation of Eurogare's station projects in Wallonia. That is actually the Walloon counterpart of Eurostation. The example of exotic destinations called Sri Lanka also attracted our attention, especially since, as far as I know, the project in Sri Lanka would have been abandoned by now. So the communication that has been disseminated on this subject does not seem to be entirely unambiguous. Of course, several daughters, Eurostation, TUC RAIL and Transeurope, have silvered their knowledge in various foreign projects. A well-known exotic example is a project in Jamaica. However, such projects can also be a form of valorisation of know-how developed in our country. It is not always easy for us to get a good view of the operation, organisation and financial flows of subsidiaries. That is why it is right to ask questions like this in order to clarify matters. Madam Minister, I therefore have the following questions. Do you agree with the way of working and the spatial vision, which are the starting point of Eurostation's working methods? In doing so, we look more broadly than just at the station itself. It also looks at the wider environment with different stakeholders and the local government in the first place. Secondly, how is Eurogare going to deal with this? Does that company have the same way of working? I ask this because we have less view of it from Flanders. Thirdly, how many return do Eurostation and Eurogare subsidiaries offer to the parent company SNCB, which is ultimately the largest and almost only shareholder? Do you consider the return relative to the use of people and resources? Fourthly, the choice and development of station projects must, of course, take into account the number of users and the associated potential of such projects. Can you give us an overview? I suspect that this will be verbally difficult, but it can also be written about the station projects that have been completed in the past, coupled with the number of passengers using these stations? It concerns depreciation costs and investment costs per passenger. That could be a really interesting table. Madam President, how do you feel about exporting foreign rail knowledge and know-how to foreign projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u61	Mr Van den Bergh, the working methods of Eurostation and Eurogare, which are the subsidiaries of SNCB involved in the development of station environments, are part of the social objective of SNCB. SNCB's multi-annual investment plan determines which stations and stops will be built or renovated within that period and what is available for this purpose. For the realisation of these construction and renovation projects, SNCB always works closely with the various stakeholders, such as the Region concerned, the regional transport company and the city or municipality. Indeed, it is important that the stations and stops are intermodal hubs that facilitate a smooth transition from one mode to another, are accessible to all users and offer sufficient parking facilities. In order for a station or stop point to succeed in its role of intermodal node, it is also important for it to register in a socio-economic work cell around the station. Indeed, such real estate projects not only allow for the upgrading of the station environment, but also allow SNCB to valorise its own sites around the stations. In order to carry out such station projects, SNCB will be assisted, as appropriate, by its subsidiaries Eurostation for Flanders and the Brussels-Capital Region, and by Eurogare for the Walloon part of the country. It is not clear, of course, that the global return of the subsidiaries Eurostation and Eurogare should be quantified at a given time. Both companies are active in different domains, which offer SNCB a different type of return. The major station projects carried out or currently in progress in recent years concern Brussels-Central (302 000 travellers per week), Ghent-Sint-Pieters (281 000 travellers per week), Brussels-North (260 000 travellers per week), Antwerp-Central (201 000 travellers per week), Leuven (187 000 travelers per week), Mechelen (105 000 travelers per week), Liège-Guillemins (100 000 travellers per week), Charleroi-South (76 000 travelers per week), Bergen (53 000 travelers per week), Ostend (46 000 travelers per week) and Hasselt (42 000 travelers per week). Transurb Technirail and Eurostation have indeed been active in various projects abroad in recent years. The necessity of all these branches will be examined in the context of the Global Efficiency Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I could also find the number of travellers per station on the internet; for that I did not need your overview. The question is, in particular, whether this number is proportionate to the investments made. This could be an interesting overview, in the context of the evaluation of the financial flows that are taking place. This is being continued. The subsidiaries shall be vetted. We will probably get results in the coming months. However, the question remains as to why exactly the example of Eurostation and its exotic projects emerged during the debates in December. I heard for that in the answer that you gave no reason whatsoever and that is a bit of a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u63	Madam President, my question deals with the points of contact at the smaller stations and the sale of tickets and brings together a number of problems. I'll try to keep it shorter than before. I think that accessible public transport starts with an accessible and customer-friendly sale of tickets, which is a principle on which we can all agree. SNCB offers a wide range of possibilities for buying a train ticket and is currently advertising it a lot. In recent years, however, the sale of tickets at smaller stations has continued. I have the most experience with the stations along line 12, whose counter function was first reduced from a whole day to half a day, and then completely closed the counters in certain stations. For example, the counters at Kalmthout station were closed. Recently it was decided to operate the stations of Heide and Kapellen only during the morning and not at all during the weekends. That too seems to be another step towards a complete closure, on which there is a great deal of concern. More and more travellers are being referred to ticket machines. However, it is not as easy for everyone to work with it as it was before. It can be compared to the banking world, where even today a number of people cannot work with ATMs or self-banking to carry out banking operations. They would like to call on staff at the point of contact for this purpose. Also less mobile people and pensioners can have problems with the vending machines. I helped some of them this morning at the station in Kalmthout. In addition, the vending machines are often poorly set up, making the screen very ill-readable, for example. Until now, these people have often been helped by train guides in a friendly way and bought their ticket on the train, which was a very human service. However, from 1 February onwards, this service will be in danger of being cancelled unless an additional seven euros is paid. How many stations and then I mean the smaller stations, not the 37 largest ones, today offer a whole day's service to the counters and how many half a day? That might be more of a written answer. The most important question is whether a plan exists, linked to the number of passengers using a particular station, in order to maintain the point of contact? In fact, I have the impression that this is not happening in a planned way today, but that, depending on the staff available, a window is being kept open or not. Is there a structural plan that says, for example, that a station with more than 500 passengers a day earns a window throughout the day and from less than 200 or 300 the counters are de facto closed? I wonder whether such a plan exists and what criteria are used? Thirdly, is there a plan to completely close Heide and Kalmthout stations? Fourthly, do you recognise that not every potential traveler has a ticketing machine offering a quality alternative to the service at the counters? Do you think it is correct that anyone who wants to buy a ticket on board a train should pay a surcharge? I am referring above all to the distinction between conscious black drivers and people who have not been able to buy a ticket to such a machine, possibly because he is in trouble. So that's the last question: what if a ticket machine doesn't work? Does the extra price have to be paid? How will the train manager be informed about this? Here once the commitment was taken not to pay the extra price at a non-working machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u64	SNCB has a total of 165 presale points: 107 outlets open all day, 58 outlets open only during the afternoon. In 2010, SNCB had 208 points of sale: 145 points of sale opened all day, 63 points of sale only opened during the afternoon. At present, a study is under way at SNCB to clarify which rationalisations still need to be carried out. Two of the criteria to be taken into account are the number of passengers leaving and the number of tickets purchased. The fact that staff are retiring is not a criterion for closing a point of sale. The vending machines are certainly a valid alternative and supplement to the counters. These are available throughout the day and offer a maximum number of products, with banknotes as well as passes as validations of subscriptions. When boarding the train, each passenger must have a valid ticket. In the last year, SNCB has greatly expanded the possibilities of buying a banknote. In addition to the counter, there is also the vending machine, mobile app and ticket online. According to SNCB, these certainly offer a wide range of options for planning a train journey in advance. The train guide will no longer have to weigh himself to charge a supplement or not. In the daily synchronization of the train coach's mobile sales system, the offline devices are automatically switched off for additional charging. For example, the traveller who leaves a place where he cannot buy a banknote will be exempted from this supplement. However, should this happen, the traveller will always be able to get a refund of this supplement via the customer service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In fact, you confirm that the station opening hours are not really planned. A study is being carried out to see how this can be done in an objective way. I had this feeling too, so this is a confirmation. I believe that the discussion on the seven-euro supplement has not yet been completed. I understand that there is a desire to do something about the discussions on trains and the aggression that this sometimes provokes. Aggression on the train is something we need to look at. However, I doubt whether this measure is the most customer-friendly and will reduce the number of cases of aggression. I hope so, but I honestly doubt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u66	Madam Minister, a new timetable has entered into force at SNCB since mid-December. Also in Harelbeke, and on the entire line between Kortrijk and Ghent, the train supply was thoroughly adjusted. There are, of course, advantages, such as a direct connection between Kortrijk, Ghent and Brussels during the morning rush. On the other hand, the offer is very small during the day and during the evening pits. In Harelbeke only one fixed train stops per hour in each direction, namely the fixed IC train. In total, all day long, there are four trains less than before. However, Harelbeke is not a small station. It has a thousand travelers a day. They come from Harelbeke or around to take the train daily. For this reason it is not a good idea to reduce the number of trains in Harelbeke. Let me give you an example. From Brussels there is no additional train to Harelbeke after 17:25 or from Ghent after 18:00 and one has to wait almost an hour for the next. In practical terms, a P train has been removed from the old system. It left Brussels-North at 5:45 p.m. and has now been abolished. An alternative is offered from Gent-Sint-Pieters, but between 18:10 and 19:10 there is no alternative. That is completely absurd, if one knows that the IC train between Lille and Antwerp, depending on the direction, stops for 9 or 11 minutes in the station of Kortrijk. It is therefore possible to stop in Harelbeke. If that train has an additional stop in Harelbeke, then the problem is not only solved, there will also be no impact on the timetable of the trains. That could offer an alternative for the travelers of Harelbeke. I have the following questions. Since the IC train between Lille and Antwerpen stops for 9 or 11 minutes in Kortrijk, a stop can also be provided in Harelbeke. Do you intend to adapt or include this point in the evaluation of the new timetable? If not, what are the right reasons not to do so, as at least two trains per hour stop at all other stations on the line between Kortijk and Ghent in each direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u67	Madam President, on the Kortrijk-Gent line there is an IC train that stops only in Waregem, the main station on this line, and an IC train that stops in the four stations between Kortrijk and Ghent. In Deinze and De Pinte there are also other trains, which however come from other directions. However, the IC train, which is indeed long standing still in Kortrijk, cannot stop further in Harelbeke because it cannot leave early in Kortrijk. The long stop is necessary for connecting the train sections that will arrive from Poperinge and Lille at 47 minutes after the hour. After 7 minutes of torque, the train can leave for Ghent and Antwerp at 58 minutes after the hour. This 7 minute torque time is absolutely necessary. In addition to the IC train that stops at 20 minutes after the hour and drives to Ghent, Harelbeke also has P-trains towards Brussels and P-trains to Ghent. Two trains from Brussels were adapted by half an hour as a result of the restructuring of the supply on the north-south link. Moreover, the additional stops in Harelbeke, which existed on two IC trains Antwerp-Rijsel, were not stopped in the new offer. After all, it was one of the intentions of the new transport plan to standardise the offer, making it clear to the passengers and ensuring more robustness of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u68	Madam President, Minister, you understand, of course, that your answer is not satisfactory for me. You call Waregem the main station on the line, but of course a station can only become important if there is sufficient supply. If more trains stop, more importance will be attached to a station. In Waregem more trains stop and in Deinze and De Pinte other connections also stop. In other words, on that line, Harelbeke is the exception with one stop in each direction. The explanation of the link in Kortrijk is a technical explanation, I have every understanding for that. However, it only indicates that the user's wishes have not been taken much into account for the new timetable. More even, as you have indicated yourself, the two IC trains that used to stop during the day in Harelbeke between Antwerp and Lille are now also deleted. This obviously does not meet the wishes of the users in Harelbeke.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u69	Madam President, Minister, it is a pity that Mr Van den Bergh is no longer here, because this is actually an addition to his question. It concerns the additional charge of seven euros from 1 February 2015 for all banknotes purchased on the train. This was already the case for banknotes purchased on a train for which booths at the boarding station were open. However, the new scheme will refer to the various existing sales possibilities where a window is not open. Below we can place the following alternatives: buy a ticket at home via the PC, buy a ticket via an app or via a vending machine or buy a ticket in advance at the counter, if that is open. In this way, customers are being prepared for stations without staff by directing them to machines, PCs or other stations via an additional surcharge. For some people this might prove to be a step too far. A whole group of people do not have a computer at home or have little experience with it or have problems with the operation of the vending machines. For this group of people this could constitute a threshold for travelling by train. Older people, less wealthy people who do not have a computer and mobile weaker people can be greatly affected by this measure. Madam Secretary, I have the following specific questions. How many stations do not have a vending machine at the moment? Does this measure provide for a switch to other stations without staff? Do you agree that such savings are at the expense of the comfort of certain rail passengers? What actions do you intend to take, so that the group of travellers who are unable or unable to cope with PC and/or vending machines is not harmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u70	On 1 February 2015, a maximum number of stations or stops will be equipped with a vending machine. Only a small number will not have this, mainly for technical reasons. However, the banknotes sold on the train from these stops are exempt from a seven-euro supplement without any possibility of sale. The mobile sales system of the train guide automatically recognizes these stops without selling. The introduction of the measure rate on board has nothing to do with any additional closures of outlets. At present, a study is under way at SNCB to clarify which rationalisations still need to be carried out. Two of the criteria taken into account are the number of passengers travelling and the number of tickets purchased. The placement of the vending machines in all stops is well suited to the comfort of the passengers. They are easy to use and accept debit credit cards and coins as means of payment. They are available all day and offer a maximum of products: notes, fitting and validation of subscriptions. Information lines are set specifically for these machines. Here you can find concrete information and even active assistance in the use of the vending machine. It is an extra service that can be used as much as one wishes. We hope, of course, that there will be a certain habit of using this machine and that the traveller will be able to use it autonomously after some time. This hotline can be reached every day from 7:00 a.m. tomorrow to 9:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u71	You surprise me a little when you say that this measure will not involve any additional closures. The next sentence tells you immediately that there is a study going on. I wonder why this study is being carried out and what will be the result? You have already come to the conclusion that there will be no additional closure. I fear that further measures will be taken on opening hours and comfort for rail passengers. On the question of what is being done specifically with users who have trouble using PC or vending machine, your answer does not satisfy me. You're hoping for a habit. Hotline help will be difficult for some users. Last week, my colleague Geerts asked a question about less mobile passengers and disabled people who are struggling with such devices. I hope that attention will be paid to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament 1510 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u73	Madam Minister, I have a question about the savings made by Infrabel and SNCB on the workforce. I have already said for a number of months that the reduction in donations would not be possible without consequences for staff. That's what's threatening to happen right now. You said there would be no naked layoffs. I haven't read that anywhere. I admit that. If I calculate these figures, this will only be possible if, over the next five years, 25% of the staff retires and is only systematically replaced. Otherwise, we can't do it with the reduction of dotation. I insist that this has an impact. To support my assertion, I have a number of very specific questions, Madam Minister. How many staff will not be replaced by Infrabel in 2015? How many staff will not be replaced by SNCB in 2015? What is the natural outflow through retirement at Infrabel and SNCB and what is the respective replacement ratio? How do you think the workforce will evolve in the coming years? What is the budgetary impact of the staff cuts in Infrabel and SNCB? What is the percentage ratio of savings to the others? I know I ask for a lot of figures, but we have been discussing the impact of this budget for a number of months now. This should enable me to underpin my thesis and combat the government's thesis that this has no impact on staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u74	The information I will give you is derived from the business plans that have been approved so far but which still need to be revised in the context of the efficiency plan. For Infrabel, the number of full-time equivalents not replaced in 2015 is 556. However, a number of cases where full-time equivalents are not replaced are not directly related to the government's savings measures, but result from the number of rationalisation operations, e.g. the centralisation of signal houses. The staff turnover planned for 2015 is a total of 859 full-time equivalents, while the number of planned recruitments in 2015 is calculated at 303 full-time equivalents, representing a replacement rate of 35.2 %. Note that in 2015 there will be some recruitments for professions that are in deficit with Infrabel. How the staff will evolve in the coming years will be identified in the preparation of the 2015-2019 financial plan. The budgetary impact of the staff reduction is estimated at around €26.1 million in 2015. The 2015 operating savings plan provides for a saving of 71.3 million of which 26.1 million come from the Post Staff. The other savings relate to the external costs of all Infrabel executives. The percentage ratio of staff savings compared to the entire savings plan is 36.6 %. As regards SNCB, the expected natural outflow through retirement or for other reasons for 2015 amounts to 1 739 full-time equivalents. The planned recruitment for 2015 is 1 467 full-time equivalents, mainly in operational services. The planned replacement rate for operational functions is 100 %. It is mainly in the administrative and support services that no replacements are foreseen. It is planned that for SNCB 417 full-time equivalents there will be fewer on 31 December 2015 of which 141 full-time equivalents have been transferred to THI Factory-Thalys. This leads to a net reduction in 2015 by 276 full-time equivalents or a decrease of 1.36 %. The evolution in full-time equivalents for the following years is not yet determined as no business plan has been approved by SNCB's Board of Directors. That is foreseen for July 2015. In the 2015 budget, the savings linked to the non-replacement of non-operational personnel represent 1.3 % of personnel costs. In externally diverse costs, however, they represent almost threefold, i.e. 3.6 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u75	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you sincerely for the transparency in the figures I have asked for. I quickly make a conclusion, only for SNCB and Infrabel, because I do not yet have a view on the various subsidiaries, where further reorganisations are possible on the basis of the efficiency plans. I am calling for a reduction in the employment of the two public enterprises from 750 to 1 000 jobs. I find it striking that the coalition agreement states that jobs will be created. I am not saying that work cannot be done more efficiently, but it strikes me that 1 000 jobs will be lost in this area in 2015. This is the essence of my speech, which I will repeat now and in the coming weeks: it is labour-destructive measures, rather than labour-creating measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u76	Madam President, Madam Minister, since October 2008, a bilateral agreement between Belgium and France has been regulating the exchange of information and personal data on the holders of a vehicle registration certificate entered in the national registration and registration records, so that traffic offences can be punished. For example, cities and municipalities in Belgium can also punish the offences committed by French vehicles. Originally, it was agreed to limit itself to infringements detected in an automated manner and thus remained mainly in the case of speeding offences. A few months ago, it was agreed to follow up on parking breaches. They are not written out in an automated system that can be easily shared. Until it is possible to make that data available via the same web services as the Belgian registration plate data, a manual procedure must be followed. Madam Secretary, can you give me an update on the state of play? When could an automated procedure be used in which data can be exchanged via web services? What is the status of the similar bilateral agreement with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u77	Madam President, for the purposes of the bilateral agreement with France, there was indeed a problem on the part of the French authorities, which failed to open access to the French registration register through the Voh module of the EUCARIS system. Following repeated pressure from my administration, the French authorities have managed to carry out the necessary developments for the exchange of registration data according to an automatic procedure. In the meantime, my administration has been able to carry out the necessary tests at the beginning of December 2014, and the results are positive. The IT services are currently developing an interface, which can be used by Belgian municipalities and parking companies for the development of their own system within the framework of that automatic search of registration plate data. The bilateral agreement with the Netherlands was delivered to my colleague, Mr Didier Reynders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. His services assured me that this dossier would soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers, after prior consultation in an inter-kabinets working group. Once this dossier has been approved by the Council of Ministers, it will be submitted to Parliament. As soon as the file is submitted, I will ensure that the IT services of my administration are already taking the necessary measures so that the automatic data exchange can soon lead to the ratification of the Convention by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u78	Madam Secretary, when I hear you like this, I think this might take a while. Could you give me a more precise time? Then I'll wait and follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u79	Madam Minister, in the station of Antwerp Central, the public toilets are run by people I assume are not directly staffed by SNCB. I therefore assume that the operation of the toilet rooms was granted in concession. At present, users of the public toilets in the Central Station of Antwerp find that access to the toilet rooms is only given by mechanical means after inserting a piece of 50 euro cents. I have no problem with that, but the instructions to be followed by the candidate toiletler, according to the leverage instructions that are imposed on him, are monolingual French. The apparatus at the entrance to the toilet first mentions:.Inserez votre coin. When the correct coin has been inserted, the device continues, also in French: "Vous pouvez passer ". Then the lever opens. Although Antwerpen-Central may be an international environment, the customers from Antwerp and the broad surroundings of Antwerp, people from the Waasland, from the Kempen and from the broad Flemish country, still insist on being served in their own language. I therefore have two questions, Madam Secretary. Do you have knowledge of possible linguistic abuses in the public toilets of the Central Station in Antwerp? What concession conditions are generally used, and certainly linguistically, by SNCB and its branches when concessions are granted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u80	Mr Penris, in the station of Antwerp-Central, the toilets were given in concession to an external operator. As a pilot project, an automatic access control was put in place so that more attention is paid to regular cleaning. Antwerp Central is a tourist station and according to Trip Advisor even destination number one. This makes the station a place where different nationalities come and many languages are spoken. The access control for the public bathroom works with language pushbuttons so that travellers can choose Dutch or French. Once the traveller has changed the language choice from Dutch to French, the menu remains in French until someone changes it to Dutch again. The developer of the sanitary facilities in Antwerp-Central will examine with the suppliers whether Dutch can be set as standard language. The concession contract between SNCB and the concessionary states that local legislation, including language legislation, must be complied with. In tourist stations, however, customers must be able to be served in various languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Since Emperor Vespasian, we've known it: pecunia non olet. It is therefore possible to ask for money for public services, even if it relates to the most basic needs of our society. But I believe that if one asks for money, in this case 50 euro cents, in order to meet a need, one must also have respect for those with that need. In Antwerp-Central, that is still Flemish, I believe, by majority. Should the same happen in Liège-Guillemins, for example, it would have been too small. And for good reason!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u82	Madam President, Minister, this week there have been press releases by Train-Tram-Bus and Navetteurs.be on the on-board rate and on the checks carried out on the train. They say that the future system of the extra seven euros is already the umpteenth time that this is being discussed today, and it is a bad signal because it rewards black riders in relation to people who mean well and for whom it costs more money. A sample shows that the risk of control is rather low, namely 44%. For trains to the capital, that percentage is 30%. SNCB denies in a reply that there is so little control and says that its own samples show that the risk of control is 63%. In February, even more staff would be deployed just to check tickets, so-called ticket control teams or TiCos. Is there normally a check on each train with the train guide's tickets? When can the train supervisor decide not to carry out checks? How many people were caught in 2012, 2013 and 2014 without a valid ticket? What were the advanced amounts? How long have the TiCo teams been working?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u83	Madam President, Minister, I will spare you the outline of the framework, as Mr Geerts has already done. The figures of the sample of Train-Tram-Bus are clear. SNCB's own sample somewhat contradicts these figures. Nevertheless, SNCB decides to extend its ticket control teams from 50 to 70. That's not gonna happen for nothing. Does SNCB consider other ways of checking tickets? If so, which one? In the United Kingdom and the Netherlands there is a system of gates to allow access to platforms for those holding a valid ticket. With us, that also exists in some metro stations. How do you feel about the installation of such gates? Has that been investigated yet? Does SNCB experience black driving as a growing problem? If so, do you have any figures to show this? My final question is a follow-up to questions put by my fellow Members Mr van den Bergh and Mr Van den Bergh concerning the extra price of EUR 7 which will be introduced from 1 February. Is there no longer a distinction between conscious black travellers and travellers who, for legitimate reasons, have not been able to buy a ticket and have reported it to the train guide? Do you believe that this is an effective measure to combat the black-driving?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u84	SNCB conducted a survey in the form of mystery shopping on train controls and customer announcements from September to October 2014. This survey showed an average control rate for the Belgian rail network as a whole of 62.9%. Mystery shopping is based on more or less 2,500 observations, while the survey of commuters.be associations on trains, trams and buses was based only on 436 observations. The number of attendants to be recruited this year takes into account the needs to be met with regard to the current framework for the TiCO (Ticket Control Team) teams: twenty teams of four or three train attendants specifically responsible for controlling transport tickets. About 50 officers are part of these teams, which were created in October 2010. In the coming months, they will be strengthened. SNCB is currently not planning any other form of ticket control. Ticket control will evolve as new technologies are used. SNCB is opposed, for reasons of principle, to the idea of placing general access barriers in the stations. The station is considered an open place. The surcharge of seven euros that a passenger will have to pay without a valid ticket is sufficiently high to have a dissuasive effect on passengers who take their chances and weighs relatively heavily on the ticket price for shorter distances, where the problem of black driving is the greatest. If there is no counter, no appointed and no vending machine at the point of departure, the supplement of the on-board fare is not charged. The sales system of the train supervisor automatically recognizes these cases through regular synchronization. If the supplement was still charged, the traveller can always contact the customer service. SNCB shall endeavour to carry out a ticket check on all trains. In the vast majority of trains, the conductor is alone and performs all the required tasks, whether related to safety or punctuality, or whether they are of a commercial nature. The control of transport tickets is therefore part of the tasks of any train attendant, but its degree of performance can vary greatly depending on the situation of the train. In 2012 and 2013, 517 000 and 554 000 passengers were caught without a valid ticket respectively. Advanced amounts were 4.3 and 4.9 million euros respectively. The trend has been increasing since 2008. The figures for 2014 are not yet available. On 19 November, the official press release was published with the announcement of the new regulations on on-board fares. As early as October, a first awareness campaign was launched and this month the message will be brought again intensively through various channels. The main aim of the on-board tariff is to prevent aggression by simplifying regulation. In an initial period, this change is likely to cause problems for a certain number of travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. For the sake of clarity, including to your predecessors, Minister Magnette and Minister Labille, I have always said that I had problems with the EUR 7 on-board rate. It's not because I've changed my hat, that I've changed my mind. I said that at the time, because I am really convinced that it is a bad measure in the light of aggression. I hope I am wrong, but I said that in this committee two years ago when that decision was taken. I am surprised at the number of passengers caught without a valid ticket. I will check again the figures of EUR 517 000, EUR 4.3 million and EUR 4.9 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u86	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Let me talk to you about these access tracks. I understand that there are no plans in this respect, even more so, that SNCB is in principle against those kind of gates. On the one hand, you are right to say that a station is an open place. I don't think anyone's questioning that. On the other hand, as far as I am aware, the platform should in principle only be accessible to persons with a valid ticket. My sources also tell me that the system should at least be considered, because it would be able to earn itself back. My appeal to you is to throw overboard the position against the project and still take the trouble to investigate it. I also wonder whether this alignment of black drivers and people who are in good faith and have not been able to buy a ticket, for whatever reason, is a good thing. I also wonder if it will stop black drivers. After all, it becomes even cheaper to drive black. If so, do we not sacrifice the majority of people who were in good faith, now that we are just tying them up with people who deliberately go black-and-white. I also understand that a number of measures have been taken to prevent people who were unable to obtain a ticket via a vending machine from exempting from that surcharge. But I sometimes wonder about the cell phone connection. Does the train attendant always have access to the right information? I can imagine that this will lead to many frustrations, uncertainties and complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u87	The website of the FPS Mobility, Vehicle Registration Service, of which you have been provided with the link, contains a number of required attachments for those who wish to transfer their registration plate or registration plate to a spouse or spouse, legally resident or one of the holder's children. For this purpose, two annexes are necessary: firstly, the apparently handwritten agreement of the person wishing to transfer his or her registration plate or proof of death; and secondly, an extract from the certificate of legal cohabitation, an extract from the birth certificate or any other such extract, each requiring that the extract be no more than 15 days old. To be honest, that seems absurd to me. I wonder where the authors of those rules were with their heads at the time. Parenting, for example, does not seem to me to be particularly variable. I do not know why the need for a lifetime of the certificate has been introduced. Why should a certificate that proves that someone is older or child be only 15 days old at most? Moreover, this method causes a great deal of red tape and nuisance. It also goes directly against the principle of only once, which the current government is carrying out, which has also been included in the government agreement and which has been in force for some time now. We do not want to burden the public and the administration unnecessarily with data that is actually already in the possession of the government. After all, all the data and certificates have already been entered in the National Register. In that register is who lives with whom and who is older of which child. Would it not therefore be better to take these data directly from the National Register? In short, since the administration itself can do so, would the second compulsory contribution not be simply abolished? This seems to me to be an ideal administrative burden reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u88	The information on the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport concerning the transfer of a registration plate is intended for the employees of the DIV and for the citizen. The purpose of the instruction is to clarify the rules, to provide a uniform procedure and to ensure equal treatment for citizens. In order not to make the procedure unnecessarily complex, a period of validity of 15 days was observed for each of the certificates to be submitted. Indeed, in the case of the certificate of origin or legal adoption, a more flexible period of validity could be used. I'm prepared to review that with my administration. With regard to the administrative burden imposed on citizens, it should be examined whether data on pedigree, marriage and death can be verified by electronic means. Such information requires access to the National Register. Moreover, this is about the exchange of personal data. The transfer of such data shall always require authorisation from the Commission for the Protection of the Personal Life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Indeed, one needs access to the National Register. This access, as stated in the government agreement, will be free for the public services. That burden for the DIV will therefore be very limited. Of course, there is still a need for an authorisation from the National Register, but it seems to me to be a very big step forward if the data are retrieved directly from the National Register. All the necessary information is there. I think you will be able to see a good cooperation here with the Secretary of State responsible for administrative simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u90	Madam President, Madam Minister, the press has recently echoed an incident appeal – this is what it is called – that the government brought in mid-December against the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July 2014, the famous order which is undermining the Wathelet Plan. By this appeal, you contest one of the two grounds on which the judge relied to order the cessation of the Wathelet Plan, namely the absence of public consultation prior to its entry into force. I am surprised at this decision, since your government agreement explicitly provides, I quote, that "each procedure for the creation and possible modification of an air route will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers after serious impact studies (in terms of safety, capacity and environment) and after consultation with the public." It therefore seems that you have decided, just four months after the formation of the government, to sweep away the objective of consultation with the population, which is indispensable in order to find a balance in the matter of the aerial overflight of Brussels and its periphery. However, there was a need to welcome this desire for transparency, which, it must be said, was radically aligned with the partisan decisions taken for years on the issue of the aerial overflight by your predecessors. Moreover, it seems to me that public consultation, which results from an international convention, called the Aarhus Convention, is not so difficult to organise and can take rather flexible forms, leaving the traditional public inquiry, if necessary. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Can you clarify to me the content and objectives of the appeal request you filed, knowing that you announced that you would apply the moratorium on the Wathelet plan? What are the reasons why you cannot organise a public consultation for the entry into force of new air routes? Why did you give up this goal? Is your appeal not likely to threaten the entire order issued at first instance, and more specifically the return to the air routes in force before 6 February 2014, that is, before the Wathelet Plan? What is the timetable for this procedure, knowing that it joins the appeal brought by the municipalities of Kraainem and Wezembeek-Oppem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the State contests that an investigation is a plan within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 and therefore considers that this law does not have to be applied in the context of the drafting of new instructions. These consultations will take place as provided for in the Government Agreement. Each procedure for the creation and possible modification of an air route will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers after serious impact studies in terms of safety, capacity, environment and after consultation with the public. The State's appeal is minor and relates only to the qualification of an investigation as a plan within the meaning of the said Act. For the court decision in the July 31 order, the State agreed. On 2 April 2015, the Wathelet Plan will no longer be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u92	Madam Minister, you responded so quickly that I did not understand everything; I will read the report again. All that matters is that the cross-appeal you have brought is not intended to break the court decision overturning the Wathelet plan. That's what I'm holding back and it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u93	Madam President, Minister, several projects for the deconstruction and recycling of end-of-life railway equipment have been launched in France. My neighbours in Nord-Pas-de-Calais have thus informed me of the existence of industrial partnerships which organize a process of deconstruction of cars and freight wagons. These are collaborations of specialized railway companies that pool their know-how and expertise. As they have explained to me, deconstruction operations are still too often carried out, today, with non-systematic material sorting and landfill waste treatment. It is therefore from the perspective of sustainable development that several projects of deconstruction of railway equipment are born in the North of France, with the desire to take into account several key issues: the preservation of the environment (through complete asbestos removal and maximum material recovery) and industrial development. In France, no less than 150 kilometres of decommissioned rolling stock are stored, pending deconstruction. This is a major issue. Minister, I would like to know your position on such initiatives. Do such experiences exist in our country? In view of the state of our out-of-use railway fleet, would it not be appropriate to develop this type of deconstruction project as well? In this regard, could you please tell me how much decommissioned equipment is stored in our country and likely to be the subject of such rail deconstruction operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u94	Mr Thiébaut, the problem of valuing rolling stock withdrawn from service has indeed been taken into account by SNCB for several years. This is an ongoing process related to the decommissioning of equipment. There are two possibilities. Either resale for re-use on the express condition that the material is free of asbestos or, if the material contains asbestos, which is most common, whether the candidate buyer can still use the material after removal of asbestos; or ironing, in combination or not with a prior removal of asbestos, most often at the site of the buyer scrap mill. These sales are made through contracts that follow calls for tenders from the highest bidders in Belgium to limit transport costs. The actual sale is only concluded when the asbestos removal and disposal documents are in the possession of SNCB. It is only then that the firing of the machine gun takes place. The recovery of scrap material is carried out by the scrapman, who has industrial sorting facilities and various recovery lines. The SNCB currently owns approximately 100 various vehicles (locomotives, cars to be destroyed, potential re-use and machine guns) which will be phased out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u95	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u96	Mr President, Madam Minister, knowing your commitment to rural areas, I wanted to draw your attention to the condition of the stations in Quiévrain, Boussu, Thulin and Hainin, located on line 97 between Quiévrain and Mons, a region you know well. I am regularly questioned by travellers about safety, lack of comfort at these stations or lack of communication. I was able to see these problems by using this line myself. Thus, the Quiévrain train station, which is an important crossing point for pupils and commuters travelling to Mons and Brussels, is limited to a very poorly maintained 19th-century old building, giving a picture of total abandonment. At Thulin station, the main problem for travellers lies in failing information. It is not uncommon to see people waiting in vain for their train on the dock, while it was simply removed. The speakers installed on the track are often quiet. On the other hand, it seems that the information given on the 'Railtime' site is often late. The Hainin station is marked by the absence of a building worthy of a railway station. Only a sign on the dock indicates to the passengers the name of the stop. These are greeted by coarsely brushed tags and by the sight of an old shelter in a deplorable state. Obviously, Infrabel considers the place unworthy of a serious and systematic interview. Finally, the station of Boussu, like his colleague of Quiévrain, gives the image of a railway of another era. The building is completely closed, tagged, lifeless, soulless and repulsive. In a context where users are encouraged to use public transport, you will agree, Madam Minister, that it seems inconsistent to leave stations, regardless of their level of use, in such a state. Will you ensure that these stations are maintained consistently, systematically and rigorously during your term of office? If so, are specific measures planned for these small stations? At the reception level, can solutions be envisaged to prevent travellers from resigning at certain stations to a simple container that serves as a window? At the information level, does it make sense that simple speakers serve as a reference for communicating with commuters in some cases? Are you aware of any deficiencies in their use?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u97	Dear colleague, at the Hainin and Thulin stop points, waste collection is carried out twice a week. An awareness-raising campaign on respect for the cleanliness of spaces will be launched shortly. New garbage cans will be installed in the spring and polycarbonate will replace broken windows in shelters. The operation of the speakers at Thulin station will be checked and the necessary will be done to compensate for any shortcomings in the advertisements. SNCB has been seeking for several years, in collaboration with the municipalities, local or regional partners to find a new assignment at the stations of Quiévrain and Boussu, while preserving their urban character, trying to maintain a waiting room in Boussu and to refurbish a window and a waiting room in Quiévrain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u98	Madam Minister, thank you. I also invite you to resume contact with the mayor of Boussu for the problem of the station. I think the municipality of Boussu is interested, but the amount requested by Infrabel for this station is a problem. The Quieurrain case has been going on for years. There has been a restoration project, the creation of housing units on the grounds belonging to SNCB and annex to the station. It's a file that's getting bogged down and it's really urgent to take care of it. But you know the mayor of Quiévrain, I think, and I also invite you to contact her very quickly on this issue. She works in the municipality of Jurbise...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u99	Madam President, Minister, I have some specific questions about the Saint-Ghislain station, the second busiest station in the Borinage behind Mons. First, there is SNCB's 2013-2025 investment plan, approved by the previous government, which provides for an amount of 1.88 million by 2025 for this station. Could you confirm that the commitments entered into in this plan for Saint-Ghislain have been maintained? Could you indicate a timetable for the renovation of the interior building? It's very pretty outside, but inside, the state is pretty pitiful. I can attest to that. Many people with reduced mobility also complain of a lack of access to the docks and look forward to transformations. Can you reassure them? Does the investment plan take into account their situation? I have also received a lot of solicitations since the implementation of the new transportation plan. Many people working off schedule complain about the removal of the first morning train at 4:22 a.m. in Saint-Ghislain to go to Brussels. They regret being forced to go directly to Mons to be able to reach their place of work while living near Saint-Ghislain. Is there any possibility of rehabilitating the 4:22 train? If not, could an evaluation of the new schedule lead to it? Finally, I was made aware that SNCB's rolling stock would remain stand-by on weekends at Saint-Ghislain station. These would include trains from the Zaventem-Mons line which, once all the passengers landed, would continue empty until Saint-Ghislain. They would then remain there at the stand-by, with the result that the Saint-Ghislain site was congested, but also a lack of profitability, as passengers were abandoned who could go to the Saint-Ghislain station. What about the minister? Do you confirm this situation? If so, can answers be provided to make better use of this line?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u100	Mr Thiébaut, the renovation works of the Saint-Ghislain station have just been launched in the first phase: the installation for 27 April 2015 of a container window and a waiting room to work more quickly on the interior renovation. The renovation will be awarded on 12 February for almost 700,000 euros and work is expected to begin in mid-May. The planned train offer on line 97 Quiévrain-Mons takes into account the customer flows observed in recent years. With constant means of production, SNCB has had to make choices to strengthen the supply on lines where customers are more important. It was in this context that the first train running between Saint-Ghislain and Mons was removed. As regards the garage of the trainsets of the Mons-Brussels airport relations, there are empty routes between Mons and Saint-Ghislain and between Saint-Ghislain and Mons on weekdays. This situation is temporary and will evolve according to the work of the Mons station. As of February 2, 2015, some empty routes will be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u101	Madam Minister, this is good news for this beautiful Saint-Ghislain station!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u102	Madam Minister, as you know, I have been actively campaigning for the reopening of the railway line between Mons and Valenciennes for a few years. Knowing your commitment to this issue – we worked together in Mons-Borinage's task force before you were appointed as minister – I wanted to question you about the state of progress of this issue. As a reminder, your predecessor, Mr Jean-Pascal Labelle, had agreed at the end of 2013 to reopen the Franco-Belgian line and had informed the French authorities. Among the elements of the agreement, it was assumed that after three years devoted to the various administrative procedures and the project study, the work would be carried out in 2017 and the line put into service in 2018. As regards financing, the previous Walloon government had been decisive since the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes line was selected as one of the 18 priority projects in the rail investment plan, amounting to €6 million. Today, it therefore seems essential that a constructive dialogue be held between the federal government and the Walloon Region to ensure that the commitments are met and that the project is successful. What about it? Could you provide me with an update on this case and provide me with the status of this case? Will the work and commissioning of the line by 2018 be carried out as planned? Finally, could you assure me of your commitment to this project and your willingness to work constructively with the Walloon Region to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u103	Dear colleague, this point was raised at the meeting between the Prime Minister and the French President. It is also the subject of discussions with my French colleague, whom I saw again at the beginning of this week. The multi-year investment plan 2013-2025 provides resources that can be used for priority projects for the Regions. Wallonia has indeed taken over the project to reopen the Valenciennes-Mons line from the list of Walloon priorities. The definition of budgets available for regional projects is part of the ongoing negotiations between the federal government and the Regions. The final decision has not yet been taken. We are in the negotiating period between the two countries with a view to finally reopening this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u104	So there is not yet a timetable that has been defined, whether for a decision or work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u105	It's on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u106	That's the case! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u107	Minister, since the implementation of SNCB's new transportation plan, the nerves of commuters have been strained. Delays are increasing and increasing. At Brussels-Midi station, on some lines, such as Brussels-Mons-Quievrain station, passengers are still talking only about delays, trains cancelled at the last minute, unheated and old where it is impossible to sit. Several testimonies in this direction came to me and, the last time I borrowed this line, I had negative comments from users. That said, your policy note insisted on the punctuality of trains and clear commitments were made to address delays. This can be welcomed, but today users are waiting for results. They want concrete answers as a result of the coumacs registered since the launch of the new transport plan. So, Madam Minister, could you indicate the causes of repeated delays on the Brussels-Mons-Quievrain line since 15 December? Do you not fear that the inconvenience caused to commuters will degrade the image of SNCB among the public? Will specific initiatives be taken to avoid these delays and to assess the effectiveness of the new transportation plan? If so, which ones? How are your commitments to intensify the efforts of SNCB and Infrabel to improve punctuality in the short and medium term? Finally, with regard to the comfort of passengers using this line, particularly on the section between Mons-Saint-Ghislain-Quievrain, will you take into account the complaints? What answers will you give them to the lack of places available during peak hours, in the face of the deficiencies in heating and the shortcomings on the connections, in particular the repeated suppression of the train between Saint-Ghislain and Quiévrain in the evening?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u108	Madam President, Mr Thiébaut, I note that you are not taking the train with Mrs Fonck, who asked me almost the same question. An evaluation of the transportation plan is planned. In addition, on February 4, 2015, the two CEOs will be heard here in committee on this evaluation of the transport plan. However, I am happy to answer you. Since the introduction of the new transport plan, the punctuality of line 96 has been negatively affected by third-party incidents, ice problems on the catenary and numerous incidents involving rolling stock. The difficulty of receiving trains at the Mons station as a result of the major works carried out there is also partly due to delays. Performance in terms of punctuality has an impact on the image of SNCB. A specific Infrabel-SNCB working group has been set up in order to analyse in depth the various elements disrupting punctuality and thus find short-term solutions, in order to improve the regularity of the different convoys transiting through Mons. More comprehensively, I asked SNCB to conduct an early assessment of the new transportation plan to determine what action can be taken in the short and medium term. The Quiévrain-Mons-Bruxelles relationship is carried out by break-type motors. Daily monitoring of compositions is carried out in order to detect possible recurring overoccupations and then be able to remedy them. The break equipment is being upgraded, which will provide greater comfort. The occasional removal of Saint-Ghislain-Quievrain trains is simply due to non-recurring equipment problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I've taken the train several times with Mrs. Fonck. In relation to the specific problems of this line, you have given me all the elements that help me understand the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u110	Madam Minister, on 23 October you requested a moratorium in Belgocontrol. On November 5, 2014, I asked you about various points. You answered me while the studies were in progress and you invited me to come back to you a few weeks later, which I am doing. Minister Belgocontrol stated in her October 23 release that the moratorium will be effective no later than April 2, 2015. Will this deadline be met? As for the channel route, I asked you about the opportunity to define it in P-RNAV. Given that the use of this system involves a hyper-concentration of aircraft noise and that the channel route is not defined in P-RNAV, it seems to me necessary to assess the impact of this system on the residents of the Brussels Canal. Indeed, instead of having a road of 3 to 5 kilometers, they will have a road of a few hundred meters. There is therefore a risk of a concentration of nuisances at the expense of a few residents. You also told me that this issue was still under consideration. Has this study been completed? Is the impact known in terms of noise pollution for the residents of the Brussels Canal? You have also stated that you are carrying out various consultations with the Regions and associations of local residents in order to identify structural solutions to reduce noise pollution associated with the overflight of Brussels. Can you give us details of the ways in which these consultations have taken place? With regard to the issue of periodic payments due as a result of the July 2014 ruling, what is the status of your negotiations with the Brussels Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u111	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the overflight of the beautiful province of Walloon Brabant by planes landing or taking off from the national Brussels airport. In concrete terms, the municipalities of Braine-l'Alleud, Waterloo and La Hulpe are affected by the nuisance caused by aircraft landing on runway 01 of the airport while the municipalities of Wavre, Chaumont-Gistoux and Grez-Doiceau are impacted by take-offs. In addition, numerous complaints have already been made about landings on Runway 01. An ASBL "Piste 01" is enough!- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, it was born. Solutions have already been provided by several political actors in the Walloon Brabant. One of these proposals is to land the aircraft in continuous descent rather than in step, as is currently the case. This solution does not alter aircraft passage areas, but allows aircraft to fly at higher altitudes. In this case, pilots would be required to arrive above the Berlaymont school at an altitude of 1,049 metres. This would reduce both noise and pollution as aircraft could reduce their engine power much earlier. This type of procedure already exists at many international airports including Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris. Minister, have you given Belgocontrol the task of studying the implementation of this proposal for the benefit of the inhabitants of Walloon Brabant? You announced at the time that you would meet with the representatives of the various provinces. Has there ever been a meeting with representatives of the Walloon Brabant province? If so, can you specify the content of the discussions and the possible solutions that have been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u112	I confirm that the moratorium will, as agreed, be implemented on April 2, 2015. This implies that, in compliance with the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 July, the P-RNAV routes introduced after 6 February have been withdrawn. At this stage, I have therefore strictly complied with the above-mentioned order and of course, as I have mentioned on several occasions, I intend to assess the impact of the P-RNAV routes in other consultations. As I explained, my method of working towards a structural solution is clear. I want to listen to all the parties and start working on the basis of the analysis that I will remove from these consultations to objectiveize the problem of the overflight. I cannot hide that I regret the action of the Brussels Region when the instruction on the moratorium was launched as soon as I took up my duties and when the consultations are under way. I repeat, I wish to find a solution in the interests of all Brusselsers, but also of the other residents concerned. It is only by dispassionating the debate, by working in serenity, that I will be able to achieve this objective. The "Continuous Descent Approach" is a technique that aims to ensure a continuous descent of aircraft. It is carried out with the engines idling, from the cruising altitude to the final segment of the approach and no longer by steps, which requires putting the gas on. The aircraft was then locked on its path, thereby reducing traffic flow capacity, but resulting in fuel savings, less pollution and a slight reduction in noise nuisances. We are currently studying this and many others. As far as your second question is concerned, we did indeed meet with the representatives of Walloon Brabant. I know his leader well. Like other representatives of other associations, if other representatives of provincial or municipal authorities wish to express their views as others have already done, they are, of course, welcome. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I prefer transparency and consultation, but given the complexity of the issue, time is needed to analyse all the elements in order to work towards a structural and lasting solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you. So there is no delay for the moratorium, no P-RNAV for the canal road at the moment, if I understand correctly. There are not yet any points raised, you continue your consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. It reassures me to hear that you are also studying the track mentioned. I will have the opportunity to ask you again about the opinion that has been delivered on this proposal. I also hear your availability. We will certainly have the opportunity soon to see each other again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u115	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u116	Madam President, Minister, there is a great displeasure among the passengers who take the train at the station of Adinkerke. Getting on the train is difficult because of the high take-off through the low platforms. Mostly seniors and families with small children face major difficulties getting on the train. I have already asked Mrs Vervotte the question to Mr Magnette, Mr Labille, and each time the problem was moved to a later date. Adinkerke is a terminal station and in the summer very busy because it is located in a coastal municipality and because Plopsaland is nearby. Residents, and especially seniors, have trouble getting off the train because of the low platforms and the displeasure is rising due to the fact that Koksijde got a new station with high platforms. Residents often go to Koksijde to take the train instead of with us. Madam Minister, for the fourth time I am asking you this question, for the first time, when will the platform increase be made and I hope that after all these years there will finally be a concrete date?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u117	Madam President, adjusting the height of the platforms is undoubtedly one of the most important infrastructure adjustments that are needed in many places in order to be comfortable. This is certainly the case for older people and children. It is therefore one of my concerns in the revision of the multi-annual investment plan. I hope to have more clarity about the necessary works at the station Adinkerke-De Panne by mid-2015. So you're gonna have to question me again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u118	Madam President, Minister, you know your answer in mid-2015, and I will ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u119	Minister, the Latvian Presidency has drafted a compromise text on the fourth railway package. Member States must take a position by the end of January. What will be Belgium's position on the Latvian proposal? Are negotiations underway with other Member States to broaden support for the Benelux position?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u120	The government wants to commit itself to the liberalisation of rail transport but wishes to take account of the special situation of Belgium, a small country, at the crossroads of the main European routes, with a high population density and one of the densest rail networks in Europe, organised radially around Brussels in order to ensure the daily travel of hundreds of thousands of citizens to and from the capital. Almost all of this rail traffic is considered to be an essential service to be provided to the population on a continuous basis and at flexible rates, validated by the Belgian State, takes the form of a public service contract. Belgium will therefore fully support the rule already introduced during the liberalisation of international traffic, giving States the opportunity to ensure that commercial services offered by new operators on lines covered by a public service contract do not jeopardise its economic balance. Similarly, according to the principle of subsidiarity, the Belgian Government is firmly committed to the freedom left to it by the current legislation to define itself the scope and modalities of the rail services to be rendered to its population and to decide which procedure will be the most effective and the least costly to designate the operator to be entrusted with this public service task. Finally, in this context of liberalisation of rail transport, which will gradually involve more players on the market, the social dimension of this development must be the subject of more precise provisions in European legislation. The aim is to establish binding principles throughout the European Union in order to avoid social dumping and unfair competition from new entrants. The Benelux position was the subject of an expanded discussion between the Benelux countries, France and Germany on 26 January 2015. We have decided to send a joint letter to the Latvian Presidency of the Council asking it to give priority to finalising the technical pillar of the fourth package. We are convinced that a higher degree of harmonisation of rail safety rules and interoperability requirements across Europe is an essential condition for the emergence of new services. The completion of the texts of the technical pillar of the fourth package is, for us and for our neighbouring countries, more important and priority given to the work carried out on the political pillar of the package, which is not at all ripe at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u121	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand you correctly, you remain in the Benelux position. In my view, we are not at all ripe for a liberalisation of passenger transport. I therefore hope that the government will maintain this position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u122	Madam President, Minister, thank you for asking my question at this hour. My question concerns the new timetable for SNCB, which entered into force on 15 December and which has already generated a great deal of discussion and commotion. The aim was to create a more realistic and smoother system and to facilitate connections, offering a good distribution, a symmetry in the timetable and good switching times. The many reactions I have received in my region show that there are a lot of questions and concerns to be expressed. I understand, by the way, that you informed this committee last week that some 1 100 complaints have been registered about the new timetable. Compared to the number of travellers, this number of complaints may not be very high, but perhaps not everyone will officially register a complaint. The complaints I receive are often about a reduction in the number of trains, even during rush hours, and the lack of capacity on those trains. Some people are no longer able to quit, despite the fact that there are more lines; they are no longer able to get there. One of the complaints is that a train used to be composed of more wagons or that a double-deck train was used, but this is no longer the case. I am thinking in particular of the Aarschot-Brussels line, the line from Opwijk-Asse to Dendermonde-Brussels, the Diest-Leuven line and the Haacht-Brussels line. That is the region from which I was given signals. For example, I hear from the Geraardsbergen-Halle line that it is no longer adapted to school hours; in the past the children could get to school on time, but that is not taken into account at all. In addition, there is also a capacity problem, which prevents the children from getting on the train. I also have questions about the combination of a GEN subscription for the Brussels region and the Brussels border. Madam Minister, I know there will be an evaluation on 4 February, but I would have liked to ask you the following specific questions. Are you aware of the problems outlined, or should I comment separately on the capacity problems on different lines, such as Aarschot-Brussels, Dendermonde-Brussels, Diest-Leuven, Geraardsbergen-Halle, Halle-Brussels, Liedekerke-Brussels, etc.? Is it possible to use double deck trains on those lines, or is there a lack of sufficient double deck trains, especially during rush hours? Has the number of passengers arriving at a particular station been taken into account in the timetable? For example, many commuters work near the Brussels-North station and stop a number of peak hour trains on the Dendermonde-Brussels line no longer there, but they drive via the Brussels-West station. How is there concrete consultation with the other transport companies, especially in the outskirts of Brussels, so that De Lijn, STIB and TEC can be properly coordinated? It is not just about the joint ticket but also about the timetables.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u123	Madam President, Mrs Becq, from the start of the new train supply on 14 December, the train occupancy rate has been monitored closely and continuously, and this for the whole network. A number of overcrowdings were recorded. The double deck carriages are used everywhere on the network and especially on the axial line to Brussels. Indeed, the number of departing and departing passengers was also taken into account. During the preparatory phase of the new transport plan, the other carriers were informed on a regular basis about SNCB's concrete plans, so that they could also adapt their timetables accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic072x.u124	Madam President, Minister, I can understand your general response, but I do not know whether specific situations will be addressed during the hearing. You say that capacity and capacity problems are being recorded. I think this is a very important element. However, I believe that consultation with the other transport companies is quite different from the fact that it will be communicated and that the others will have to adapt to it. This is not always self-evident for a smooth transition from one line to another. In that sense, I hope that the evaluation will be carried out on a regular basis and that this will also be taken into account in the hearing. This will not be a simple exercise, but it must also be looked at in depth from the different regions.
