ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u1	Minister, I introduced my question following an interview you gave on January 7. One passage had intrigued me – and it is even more worrying after the fact. I quote: "We had planned not to use 870 million euros. I'm pretty sure it'll be achieved. This could bring the deficit back from 3.1 to 3. or 2.9%, which would put us in a better position." Two elements must therefore be noted: 870 million and 3, or 2.9% deficit. Since then, some have asked other questions. Now I would like to know the exact figures. With regard to the deficit, was it 3.1 or 2.9 per cent, as you expected and announced? This morning's press mentions 3.2 or 3.3 per cent. Another element is the fact that you hold responsibility for Entity II. It's a little "big", unless you have figures that you can communicate to us and that prove that only the said Entity is responsible. However, your remarks nevertheless led your colleague Kris Peeters to say that it was intellectually dishonest. In doing so, what is the federal share in this outcome? Let us remember that the federal target was 2.2%, and that was not a forecast. Have you reached this percentage at the level of Entity I, in other words, at the federal level? Then, what about the 870 million unused? Indeed, in your interview, you stated that it was intended not to use this amount while ensuring that the objective would be achieved? Is this objective being achieved today? Is the result better? Finally, we know very well how, at the end of the year, we can carry forward expenses from year to year. Yesterday, you wrote a tweet. If it's not you, it's your services; in any case, it was carrying your signature and your photo was attached. In this tweet, you indicated, both in French and Dutch, that no invoices were carried forward from 2014 to 2015. Do you confirm this information today? We are here in the Finance Committee, which is important. Do you confirm that no invoices were carried forward from 2014 to 2015, including in the area of justice, to possibly reach the figure of 870 million? The tweet is very clear. I have it in my possession.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u2	Mr Minister, I will not repeat what Mr Nollet has just mentioned. At the end of last week it was already clear that Europe would point us to a deficit of 3%. It is very simple to say that it is not our fault, but the others. That is what we have been faced with in the past. But we all share responsibility. A member of the government has even argued that it is clearly unfair and unfair to pass on to each other. We have to fix it. Europe points to a budget deficit of more than 3%. More than that, Europe has its sights on us again. It seems that you have received a detailed letter of about fifty pages. That's different from the letter from four pages of last time. Can you send the letter and the comments of Europe to the committee? It is good that we know what we are talking about and what problems Europe is talking about. We can check whether the government responds adequately to this. What's the exact shortage? What's the guilt rate? Is it more or less than estimated and exactly how much? Can you make a split between Entity I and Entity II? Can you make the division between the local authorities and the Communities and the regions within it? Is the deficit at the level of revenue or expenditure? What revenue is less than estimated? What expenditure is greater than estimated? What are the financial consequences for our country? What are the implications for the 2015 budget? How do you intend to solve the problem? How do you intend to respond to Europe? For that, of course, we need the letter from Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u3	Mr Minister, we have only read the press releases so far. I see TV stations and newspapers unpacking with this. There used to be a big press conference in the days of Dehaene and Verhofstadt in the first or second week of January and then we knew what the result was in mid-January. The same was true for Flanders, the week before New Year Van Mechelen said there were surpluses. We are now in mid-January and we still have no exact figures. Reportedly, there is a deficit of less than 3 % for 2014. The overrun by the Communities and the Regions would have increased to EUR 1.8 billion in 2014. That is EUR 1.5 billion more than expected. They say the federal government deficit is on schedule. For Flanders there is talk of a deficit of EUR 800 million and for Wallonia there is talk of a deficit of EUR 1 billion. Minister Van Overtveldt said last week that we are in a situation at risk of compliance. The Belgian budget is a risk budget. He says, however, that we should not take additional measures, no additional measures. However, we must implement our measures effectively. He was talking about effective measures on our committee. There would be a letter from the European Commission asking for a reply from the government. We have already heard that this answer consists of the answer we have already heard before Christmas. Are there new elements, given that we now have a deficit of 3.3 %, which is higher than estimated? Does this not threaten Belgium to enter Europe's excessive deficit procedure? Is the fact that we have now exceeded the deficit due to expenditure and revenue? Is it just the states? Is it about revenue or expenditure in the Länder? I read in the press, but I do not believe that the new budgetary implications, the ESA directives, are the cause of the greater deficit. Few people are aware of this, but the new Oosterweel connection has not yet received a euro, and last year's major criticism was precisely that school building did not come off the ground. It's not about hundreds of millions. I do not intend to comment on the application of the ESA rules in this area; that is the competence of the Flemish Parliament. My question to the government is what are the implications of the 2014 figures for 2015? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would like to know what the precise figures are in the press, as Mr Nollet points out. What is the government's position in view of the debate we will inevitably have on budgetary control? In this context, we are already talking about EUR 1.5 billion. So I think we should be able to get some clarity today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions, which are justifiably evolving, as the current situation demands, both in Parliament and in government. Indeed, we work daily, especially in the important European framework that you have just described. I will try to answer all your questions, but in a grouped way, because new questions due to recent news have come to join them and that is quite legitimate. The general government deficit is currently estimated at €12.97 billion or 3.2 % of GDP. However, this is still an estimate and the figure may change in the coming months. For the degree of debt, there is still an estimate to be made. It is currently being worked on by the relevant services. Clearly, the federal government has a funding balance of -2.7% of GDP and -0.1% of social security. Overall, this represents a balance of -2.8% for Federal Entity I. As far as Entity II is concerned, it has a funding balance of 0.4%, with a nuance – which makes it difficult to communicate very clearly – which is the practice of rounding. If we isolate Entity II, we get to 0.5. When combined rounding of the Federal Identity I and Entity II is done, we reach 3.2%. So there is sometimes a difficult understanding, I concede, with that 0.1% difference because rounding is what they are. The overall balance for Europe, which is not concerned with the institutional organisation of our country, is -3.2 %. For Entity I, the current forecasted balance of claims for 2014 is more favourable than the estimates for 2014, used in the preparation of the 2015 budget a few months ago. The federal balance of claims is now assessed more favourably by EUR -10.81 billion, EUR 184 million. Revenue is estimated to be EUR 204 million higher. The interest charges would improve by 19 million euros. The overall primary expenditure and balance of the institutions to be consolidated is currently estimated at EUR 38 million less favourable than in the November 2014 budget documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. For the good translation services, would you like to repeat this passage on receivables?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u6	I repeat. The federal balance of claims is now assessed more favourably by EUR -10.81 billion and EUR 184 million. Revenue is estimated to be EUR 204 million higher. Interest charges would improve by 19 million euros. The total of primary expenditure and the balance of the institution to be consolidated is currently estimated at some 38 million less favourable than in the November 2014 budget documents. The balance of social security improves by almost €70 million. The improvement in social security can largely be explained by a number of factors: firstly, 145 million higher contributions to the system of employees; secondly, 119 million higher expenditure in the system of employees, especially in the case of pensions and service cheques; thirdly, 30 million higher receipts in the system of selfemployed workers; fourth, 31 million lower expenditure in the system of selfemployed workers, especially in the case of pensions; and finally, 18 million negative ESA corrections. The statement of revenue and expenditure of Entity II will have to be provided by the relevant authorities. What exactly will be the consequences for our country cannot yet be determined with certainty. For example, whether Belgium enters an excessive deficit procedure also depends on a number of elements other than the fact that there is a deficit of more than 3%, such as the medium-term budgetary situation. For 2015, the European Commission will present a report in early March. In addition, the European Commission will analyse and assess the situation for 2014. The new estimates for 2014 do not suggest that the 2015 budgetary targets would be compromised for Entity I. Maintaining these objectives underlines the temporary nature of the 2014 overrun which could avoid an excessive deficit procedure. In addition, the budgetary situation for 2015 will be analysed in detail again in the light of budgetary control and, if necessary, can be adjusted. I shall now reply to the supplementary questions put to me by Mr Nollet, Mrs Temmerman and Mr President. As far as under-uses are concerned, you mentioned 870 million "quasi certain", I do not dispute them. In fact, underutilization amounts to 833.5 million. Why? There have been last-minute invoices, including – transparency demands it and I take responsibility to say it – the delivery of a helicopter earlier than expected, a large sum, more than 25 million memory. It happens that for such a delivery, one pays in instalments (not all ESA standards are applied everywhere in the same way for the moment). The first instalment was paid in 2012. The order consisted of four helicopters, three of which were delivered in a timely manner. The second instalment was paid in 2013. The delivery of this military helicopter was normally scheduled for 2014, and was postponed until early 2015 and finally completed at the end of December. Of two things one, we either closed our eyes and postponed the payment to this year 2015, or we took this delivery into consideration. On the proposal of the competent minister and myself, the Council of Ministers preferred to pay what was due, without difficulty, since the rule was thus made. There is also an additional amount in the under-utilizations that has been granted to the Department of Justice for approximately €6 million. With the knowledge that I had of the file when I spoke, it was actually thought that the under-utilizations amounted to 870 million but they were reduced to 833.5 million, which in absolute terms does not pose enormous difficulties and does not endanger a 0.1% increase or decrease in 2014 but it allows us to honor our bills. I am thus bouncing on the question of invoices. You're talking about a tweet. Indeed, all validated and pre-recorded invoices are liquidated for last year. In this tweet, I'm not saying that all the bills for justice are liquidated but that a sum of 73 million was released at the end of 2014 for justice, which allows us to reduce the backlog of justice to fairer proportions. However, we remain aware of this backlog, which dates back many years. We can't do everything in a year. With my colleague, Koen Geens, we were able to convince. Good management as Minister of Budget is not just about saying no, as some say. It's also about paying what's supposed to be. I am thinking in particular of certain liquid and legal bills, of all the independents, translators, experts and others who are rightly waiting to be honoured. What gives me and the government a slight satisfaction in the current situation is to be able to say globally that bills are being honoured with this nuance for justice. This is the case with regard to under-utilization and payment of invoices. With the bills being honoured, there is no postponement. So we leave in healthy conditions at this level. I am not in the process of beautifying a situation that is not simple with 3.2%. However, there was a time when the technique was often used. As far as the letter to Europe is concerned, are you referring to the letter sent by Europe to Belgium and to yesterday's reply? I propose to obtain, I believe, parliamentary control, the authorization to transmit it to you from the Prime Minister who is currently on a plane to Davos. It should be noted that the question is four or five pages, of memory. The answer is a two-page polite letter that forms the 51-page schedule. I propose that it be forwarded to you as soon as possible so that it can be made available to members. Thirty pages are filled with updated tables with the implementation of the measures taken within the framework of the budget and the government agreement. There are also explanations. Europe's request was for five points. The implementation of budgetary measures is an important point. Other points are more specific. One on liquidation bonuses concerns the Minister of Finance; the other on tax evasion, social fraud and pension savings. There is also a question for the Minister of Employment. The letter from the European Commission included five specific questions. We signed the reply yesterday, on time. You have to realize that the numbers fall hour after hour. It's only January. However, we wanted to make the document as up-to-date as possible to the European authorities. Finally, I would also like to dispel any ambiguity with regard to myself and with regard to the government. Personally, I have never expressed myself to judge Entity II. I just noticed. To see is not to judge negatively or to take another attitude. It is simply a matter of numbers. What do you want me to say? If I see the numbers 2.8 on the one hand, 0.5 on the other, I cannot say the opposite of the truth. I didn't make a judgment, I repeated it this morning on the radio. I also think there's been a little bit of intraregional ping-pong, but I'm not going to interfere in this, it's not my role. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the federal government must take a certain height and, as a certain Dutch-speaking press said, work hand in hand rather than hand out responsibility. The findings are there. Efforts must be made in Wallonia, in the French Community. For local authorities, the estimate was up to 350 million deficits. It was the FPS Budget, on the basis of various elements of assessment, that gave us this figure, but we have no figures at this stage to confirm it. Everyone knows how cities and municipalities work. When the estimate is obtained, this figure may be revised upwards or downwards, if necessary. We wanted to be careful about this by announcing 350 million, a figure that is subject to correction. Mr President, the budgetary agenda has planned a press release at the end of this month with the elements in our possession. It may be January 29 or February 1 or 2. But we are trying to get as many things as possible, with the current situation with the European Commission inviting us to be as complete and as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u7	When could you deliver the answer to the European Commission and the annexes to us? We have a committee meeting this afternoon, and I see that there have been further questions on this subject. Is it possible to get that by this afternoon? Has the answer been sent yet? Has the answer already been sent to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u8	Mr. Chairman, we signed this letter during noon and the annex was further refined around 1:00 p.m. You'll know everything. It was then sent to the European Commission between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u9	Would it be possible to do so at the beginning of this afternoon's committee? Then we could distribute it around 2:00 p.m. Mr. Van Overtveldt will have to answer a few questions on the subject and we can refer to the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u10	Mr President, Minister, on the question of the deficit, the cutoff has now fallen: it is 3.2. Perhaps this figure still needs to be refined. So, contrary to what you said again on January 7, two weeks later, it is no longer 2.9 but 3.2. With such a figure, the excessive deficit procedure hangs on our noses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u11	Mr. Nollet, excuse me. On January 7, I was speaking on behalf of Entity I with 2.9 and we are at 2.8. I'm afraid you're confusing the global with Entity I, separated from Entity II. I am the minister of the federal budget and there is equality of institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u12	Minister, it is absolutely not noted anywhere that you are speaking on behalf of Entity I. Let's move on, today we are asking you about these 3.2. Then let's compare with Entity I. You say it's now 2.8; it's better than the estimate. I laugh, because it's no better than the goal. What matters is the objective, not the estimate. In order to be able to accuse Entity II and to have your colleague, former Minister-President of the Flemish Government react, it is necessary first to observe what you have on your own plate: you had to reach 2.2 and you remained stalled at 2.8. The difference is therefore 0.6. The problem of Entity I, since you want to talk about it, is in relation to the objective, not the estimate. However, on this point, we have no element. Entity I is therefore responsible for this risk which hangs us on the nose of procedure about an excessive deficit in relation to the objective it had set itself. Then, for the 870 million, I hear 833 million. So it's close. This may be the helicopter earlier than expected and others. Okay, and history will remember that it was this helicopter that flipped the accounts... Such variances occur in day-to-day budgetary management. But more importantly, in my opinion, is your comment on the 2014 invoices. I want to be sure I understand. You are telling us today that no invoice filed in 2014 was carried forward to 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u13	I said "validated" and "recorded."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u14	What is the difference between the invoices dated in 2014 and the invoices recorded? Are you making a selection?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u15	These are invoices whose debt is certain, liquid and due. But there are bills that need to be checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u16	All "legitimate" invoices for 2014 have been paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u17	With the "Justice" shade, which I explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u18	For Justice, what is the amount carried over?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u19	I don't have the number in memory.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u20	In the tweet, it is stated that "no invoice for 2014 will be carried over to the 2015 budget". We're not talking about justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u21	Mr Nollet, I have the tweet in front of me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u22	I printed it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u23	It's paid. The government has released additional funding for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u24	It is therefore not said: "No invoice except Justice". It is said, moreover, that 72 million more have been released for justice. That's not true! In any case, for justice, that is not the case! I note that for all other departments, all legitimate invoices for 2014 are not postponed. I take note of this and will report it to my colleagues in other committees. If there is further debate about postponements of invoices, we will know what is happening as this statement is important. Finally, you say that the 2015 target is maintained. I'd like to know what purpose you're talking about. Is this the budget deficit target that should lead us to less than 2.1 per cent for the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u25	The minister said that the government's targets for the 2015 global deficit will be maintained and talked about accountability...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u26	Yes, I agree. It is something else to see how to deal with responsibility, but the overall goal for the country is the deficit target of 2.1 that you were talking about at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u27	Yes, but for Entity I. I'm only responsible for this Entity! I do not know how to decide in place of other governments, which I do not judge elsewhere. Each parliament must be left to discuss measures. I'm not judging. I see that when we talked about 2.1, it was actually Entity I. It will be up to the other governments and parliaments to move forward. That was what was said in the budget debates. By remaining in the nails of the latest estimates – not the 2014 initial estimates but the latest ones – we have 2.8 minus 0.7, which remains the deficit reduction target, which makes 2.1 for Entity I.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u28	My question was not about differentiation Entity I/Entity II. My question was whether we kept the original target or whether we were just decreasing by 0.7 in relation to the new situation. At one point, it could be understood that the target was 2.1, but it was also stated that the goal was simply to decrease by 0.7. So you confirm that it is the nominal figure of 2.1 that is the reference and not the decrease of 0.7. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u29	2.8 minus 0.7 equals 2.1. That's all. So it's the same as what we said about the budget, as far as Entity I is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u30	What about Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u31	You will have parliamentarians who will question the other levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u32	You have already said that you should send this to Europe!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u33	I would like to start a debate, but we are in the context of questions/answers. I haven't been a minister for a very long time, but it seems to me that we're out of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u34	Each of you speaks of different figures. Mr Nollet, you are talking about the reduction of the deficit, as proposed by the government, of 0,7% of GDP. On this point, the European Commission has said that, taking all the measures into account, it estimates that deficit at 0.4. The discussion on this 0,7% is about the structural deficit and not about the nominal deficit. The Commission is also talking about the structural deficit. In the discussion, I think you are talking about the numerical deficit from 2.8 to 2.1 %. The share of the Communities and the Regions is only 0,1%, as you know. Last year, the Communities and the Regions made an effort of 0.4%. Much depends on how the Communities and the Regions can deliver their budget. Mr Nollet, you are normally entitled to two minutes' speaking time for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u35	One more word, Mr. President. When Europe addresses the Minister for Budgets, it addresses Belgium as a whole. And we could only bring our demand for figures, not for political debate, to Entity I alone. That is not the way to go! It won't work! The representatives of Europe and the Commission, at a joint meeting, referred here to a reduction of 0.7. This element covers all Entities and it is the Minister of the Federal Budget who must respond to Europe on behalf of all Entities unless I understand anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u36	Mr Nollet, we do receive figures from the other Entities. Without judging them, we see. It is we who are actually passing them on to the European bodies. We have this coordinating role. But we have no decision-making role in place of Entity II. Moreover, during the budgetary debates, when I sometimes spoke with a glance at Entity II, one or the other made me at the outset remark that we were speaking on behalf of the Federal State and not dealing with the Regions. You'd have to know! But it's a small parenthesis. The figures have therefore reached us in the course of January, not always in a very explicit way. We have, therefore, transmitted to Europe the figures we have available by also collecting the data that come to us from the other Entities. But we are certainly not going to decide in the place of a particular government. You have participated in a government, you know how it works!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I can't hide the fact that it doesn't satisfy me at all. In fact, I'm surprised about a number of things. It is clear that the overall objective is not being achieved. You may not want to say it explicitly, but it has been explicitly in the newspapers and a number of ministers have made statements about it: the objective has not been achieved. Europe has asked a number of questions, and I understand that we will get them, with the answers given by the government. It's weird that you're now saying that you have nothing to do with Entity II's figures. In terms of jurisdiction, that is true, but it is very strange that the government states that if there is a deficit, this is the debt of Entity II. Two things one!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u39	You may not, but still some people from your government. Besides, you didn't, but it was in the papers. It did not say that Mr Jamar said that, but it said that the government assumes that the cause lies with Entity II. That was very clear. Hence the reactions of a number of members of the government who have said that it is unfair to talk about this. You are now replying that you have nothing to do with that and that you cannot give those figures. You can, of course, give those figures: you have received them from Entity II. It is strange that, on the one hand, you can say that Entity II is the cause of the deficits, but, on the other hand, we are asking where the deficits are, and say that you have nothing to do with them, are not competent to do so and cannot give the figures. Of two things one: either they are responsible and you should be able to give the figures, or they are not responsible and the responsibility lies with Entity I and you should also be able to give them. What I am very disgusted about and which almost caused me to fall off my chair is your answer that the verified invoices have been paid, except for Justice, but that you have managed to introduce a fair or reasonable period of time in the Justice Department. Minister, would you say this to the guardians and to all the social bodies involved in the prison system? There are guardians who have been waiting two years for their payment, until now. I'm not talking about last year until now. This is impossible for you to find a reasonable and just term. These people are so necessary for the minors. If you consider this to be fair and reasonable, I find that unacceptable. This is not a reasonable term and totally unjust. It's not just about these people, but I'll take this as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u40	We said three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u41	Okay. But then you don't have to say... You have just said, Minister, that your policy has now reduced it to a reasonable period in those three months. That's what I'm responding to. I'm telling you, this is not a reasonable time limit. Still having to wait two years is not a reasonable time. I hope you agree with me on that. I am not saying that you are the cause of the high number of late invoices, I am suing that the government, including you, is getting over them very lightly. That is not a fair term, and this must continue to be mentioned. I hope that you will continue to stress the need to shorten this deadline. Finally, local authorities. It is true that a number of things lie with them and that part of the problem lies in them. This, of course, is also due to the way in which the government deals with its local authorities, both Entity II, the Flemish government, and this federal government. If these two governments, Flemish and federal, do not intend to do anything about it, then I guarantee you that the problems of local authorities will become much greater in the future and that the federal government will no longer be able to explain to Europe how we are going to solve the deficits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is good that we still have a Parliament and that we should not hear about things through tweeting between members of the government and Members of Parliament. We are still talking about figures here, and we must be very careful about that. Who had the illusion that the 2015 government agreement and budget would solve the problems of this country? Nobody, right? I am surprised that those who have acted so strongly against all possible savings are now complaining because the deficit is higher than anticipated. Apparently, therefore, there is not enough savings or we need to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u43	Mr President, I am concerned about the hurray mood. They say it's solved and then it turns out it's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u44	No one ever said that. That is Sisyphic work, because of that 3 % we still have to go to 0 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u45	Be honest in that and don't say it's all solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u46	No one's ever said the cases were solved. The fact that we are now faced with deficits, including those of the regions that are lagging behind, was predictable. It should not be thought that the regions can just walk a path where there are no problems. This has not only to do with the budgetary tendering of investments, it also has to do with underestimating revenue. Everyone knows that the Flemish government underestimated that income, which gives rise to the deficits. There is talk in Flanders of 800 million euros. I think this is soluble. In Wallonia, it is about a billion euros. I do not hear the PS in this debate, but I believe that everyone should be realistic in that regard. It is neither easy for the regions nor for the federal level to meet the maximum deficits imposed by Europe. A year ago, we thought the federal level would come to a deficit of 2.2. That 2.8 is actually just an estimate that came at the end of the year. I welcome the fact that we will get the figures. I am also looking forward to the Government's response to the European Commission which will include the tables. We will therefore be able to see exactly where the problem is. I believe that the figures presented by the Minister show that primary expenditure has only been underestimated for EUR 38 million. This is a very limited amount when it is seen that the primary expenditure of the federal government amounts to more than EUR 50 billion. This is the minimum minimorum. The Court of Auditors indicated earlier that this expenditure would be completely derailed next year. There are many aspects to this debate which we will come back to in the coming weeks. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to the committee. We are also looking forward to the letter from the European Commission so that we can assess the situation with even more knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u47	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this is a different matter. It no longer concerns the 2014 accounts but the adjustment and the year 2015. We already know since November-December that you must return to the second session. The Court of Auditors and Europe had said so, just like some members of Parliament, of whom we were. What is the timing of the different stages? Perhaps some of them have already been crossed, in particular the response to the European Commission that we mentioned in the previous question. What is the date of the circular? What is the date of the new forecasts? We are talking about 5 February 2015 for the European Union and 12 February 2015 for the Plan Bureau. What is the date for submission of government proposals? What is the date of submission of ministerial proposals and the date of submission of the Monitoring Committee's report? What are the dates of the conclave? We must be very precise on this point and not be vague as in the general communication that took place last Friday. What is the date of your own adjustment to the Commission? It is about early March, but I assume that a more precise date has been set for the European Union's position. Could you also let us know when the bill will be sent to the House, so that we can adapt? Here, Minister, for the internal calendar at Entity I. You do not mind me continuing to consider that you represent for Belgium the "door of entry" for dialogue with the European Union. So what is your calendar external to Entity I but common to Entity I and Entity II? Minister Lacroix complains that there have been no working meetings at this stage. It appears that a consultation committee is scheduled for April 3, 2015. However, you must return the Stability Program by April 30, 2015. I assume that by then, more meetings will be scheduled. Could you then inform us of these different calendars? I come to a very simple but more political question. Will the tax shift, of which everyone is talking, be dealt with in the context of the budgetary conclave or after the timetable of the budgetary conclave that you will give me? Finally, as Mr President has said, it is not what is communicated to the media that matters, but what is said here in committee. I agree with that idea. However, sometimes, after hearing things from outside, it is useful to ask the question here for a clear and precise answer. What measures have already been adopted with regard to excise duties? In the government, some say it's already decided, while, again this morning, you said that nothing was decided, except the setting up of a working group. What about it? I'm linking up with the question of the provision. Have any other decisions in connection with the provision, amounting to EUR 19 million, been taken? We are already saying that 200 million are missing. Have any decisions been taken in this regard in anticipation of the timetable on which I am questioning you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question concerned the timing of the budgetary adjustment. Following my proposal to the Council of Ministers on Friday, 9 January, this calendar was adopted for the whole of 2015. Of course, emergencies can occur during the journey. With regard to budgetary control, a circular specifying the timing, methodology and procedure will be sent at the end of January to the various departments. An important date will be 12 February 2015, when the economic budget will be presented, on the basis of the parameters for working in a concrete way. As I am not a prophet, I do not know what these parameters will be in order to rework the budget, which we continue to do. The Monitoring Committee will present a note by mid-March; as soon as it is published, the budget conclave can be started. The government expects the end of March to be the final date for this conclave. As required by law, the adjustment will be tabled no later than the end of April, as you pointed out, Mr. Nollet. Yesterday, we communicated to the European Commission all the information on the budgetary situation. That is the situation today. I would add that a monitoring of expenditure is ongoing. This is also an important work of the Budget Department. It's his job and I don't dispute it. The expenses are closely monitored, but with humanity, rest assured. The Official Consultation Committee is scheduled for 3 April. Indeed, the various budget ministers have not yet met. I recommend, and I will ask for the agreement of the government, to hold a first meeting, "friendly and responsible", to work on the different trajectories, regardless of the policies implemented by each one. I hope to be able to hold this meeting before Carnival Week, which will also allow us to work in practice. No budget minister is more than any other budget minister. Everyone can always call everyone. No one called me in the federal budget debates to tell me to hold on. As far as the federal government is concerned, we have been here since October, we have had budgetary debates in sound democracy, with hearings. After the parties, we're in trouble, but in a responsible way. We must stick together in order to be able to chart the future of Belgian citizens, regardless of the Entities. Here's the timing. I can go into the details of the shipment, removal, departments, etc. I have a two- or three-page painting. But I think you were expecting some essential dates, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u49	Mr President, I thank the minister for these first elements. If you have the painting, we're taking it. I have noted that for Entity II, there will be a first meeting before Carnival.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u50	I'm going to propose it to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u51	That makes sense. On the other hand, you didn't answer me about the tax shift. Is it after or during the budget work? You didn't answer me about the excise duties either. Is this a decision or is it just a reflection of a working group, as you said this morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u52	I am not a Minister of Finance and that was not included in the question. I would like all of this to turn into an informal, friendly debate, but... Mr. Van Overtveldt is coming later. You can ask him the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u53	There is a question from Mr Laaouej about timing, not the "tax hit" as it is written, but the tax shift. It's a little mistake. I do not think we should take this into account politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u54	So for you, it's outside the budget conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u55	Mr Nollet, I think we should ask Mr Nollet this question. Van Overtveldt. The government released last week dat of tax shift effect moet hebben in 2015 in 2016. The Prime Minister said that the tax shift would be implemented in 2015-16, but he also explicitly mentioned, with respect to timing, that the government is still waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u56	Mr President, I'm glad you're here! At least these are answers! The effect is expected in 2015-2016; I take note of what the government is saying through you...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u57	No, this communication was made by the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u58	Mr President, thank you for mentioning this. It was enough for Mr. Jamar to say it himself! It's okay! As far as the excise component is concerned, can you answer me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u59	Mr. Nollet, are you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u60	I have a question that remains unanswered and unanswered, namely what the minister said this morning on the radio, can he repeat it here? It's not complicated, because it's in this chamber that everything is discussed and not in the radio studios.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u61	You can put this question to the minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u62	I like this "good bad faith" or "false good faith". There's a finance minister. I've known you as a minister. I often asked you and you replied that the question was not a matter for you, but for one of your colleagues. This therefore implies an interdepartmental correction! Let us remain correct in this matter! I can only tell you a working group on this matter. I've read tweets from you and others about this. I almost answered by asking you if you preferred rest groups! It is normal to think about the situation! At a time when the interpretation of the words, either of the president or of myself, must keep its limits. I simply repeat the words made by several ministers yesterday at the end of the Kern, namely that a working group has been set up on this subject and that no decision has been taken. Within a government, there is either a kern or a select committee. Then a government decides on one or the other measure and, if necessary, a law must be able to be adopted and voted to implement it. For the rest, it belongs to Mr. Van Overtveldt to reply as to the timing it envisages and the possible measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u63	Minister, thank you for that answer. We now have the information. It's your job!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 1273 by Mr Peter Dedecker, at his request, was converted into a written question. Question No 1343 by Mr Dispa is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u65	Mr Minister, the introduction is clear to everyone: since the attacks many ministers have rightly announced, let us be clear, a number of measures. This afternoon, a joint committee will be working on this. Mr Crusnière had already predicted it during the discussion of the budget, but it is still strange that everyone in Mary Poppins' pocket is now looking at the departmental commission. We all predicted that. In our view, the departmental commission had already been allocated a lot of money, but now we are going to call on it again for all kinds of measures. Once again, I am not saying anything about the measures themselves, just about how they will be financed. In a number of cities the army is deployed. You may say that someone else has to answer that, Minister, but I have been told that the army will have to be paid: those who now carry out police surveillance will have to be paid by the Home Office. There is no provision for this either, so the question is which post it will be recovered from. The Minister of Justice is now saying that legislation on telephone taps, stepping up the fight against radicalisation in prisons, the law on social networks and so on must be amended. Once again, I am not talking about the measures themselves, but about how they will be financed. The Prime Minister himself said he would arrange the financing through the interdepartmental commission. If I remember correctly the budgetary discussions, a large part of the interdepartmental commission had already been allocated. Minister, how will the funding be done? What is the specific amount to be taken out of the commission for measures already taken, such as military deployment and future action? Has the Council of Ministers already given its approval to recourse to the commission? Will the commission be increased in the course of budgetary control in March? Where will they get the money?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u66	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the 2015 budget debate, we found that the interdepartmental provision was very often requested. We should have even used twice what was written! We do not criticise the fact that it exists. On the contrary, this provision is necessary. It's even careful. But what is disturbing, if not disturbing, is that it seems to be the solution to everything. When there is no registered credit, it is used systematically. This therefore leads to overuse. These included staff costs for the Department of Justice, defence investments, maintenance claims, and the Cybersecurity Centre, which was a priority for which no budget had been budgeted. The list is too long to mention it as a whole; it has already been listed in the budget debates. Following the terrible terrorist acts in France, Prime Minister Charles Michel said he could finance new measures to combat terrorism through this provision. We do not question the measures; we will have an opportunity to discuss them this afternoon in other committees. However, Minister, could you give us your forecast of the allocation of the interdepartmental envelope for 2015? I assume that you have now been able to clarify and refine the figures mentioned during the debates in December 2014. Do you confirm that some or all of the envelope devoted to measures to combat terrorism and radicalism will be removed from this provision? What amounts are we talking about exactly? If these intentions were proven, could you tell us how you will be able to manage this levy in the interdepartmental provision when we know, as my colleague Mrs Temmerman has said, all the needs already included in this interdepartmental provision, even if only for justice? Finally, what impact could this have on the next budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u67	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, thank you for your questions. The justifications for the 2015 budget, as published on the House's website, provide for the allocation of the interdepartmental provision as follows: - EUR 30.3 million for Optifed policy (recurring and logical); - EUR 40 million for the payment of court fees (a sum of which it is never known whether it will be reached or not, depending on the evolution of certain cases); - 40 million for the payment of arrears of competence allowances; - 100 million for investments (Defence was also mentioned in the budget debates); - 67.29 million for staff costs. In addition, part of the balance of the EUR 10 million provision will also be allocated to the establishment and operation of the Cyber Security Centre, which seems to be unanimous among parliamentarians. Taking into account recent events and efforts to combat radicalism, the government has announced that security will be given priority. Arbitration can be carried out within the commission to clear the necessary budgetary margins. However, this exercise does not exclude the other priorities, such as the possible redeployment of certain appropriations in budgetary control. I'm getting to the payment deadline. We are only on January 21, and sometimes we feel like we have questions like we were in June or September. This provision will not be requested until April, May, June, even for the positions I have just mentioned. This can still be taken into account. I would like to compare this with certain other levels of power, sometimes local, where this provision does not exist. What do local authorities do when a serious problem arises? The urgency is decreed and this is rectified when a budget amendment is made. This provision is concerned by its comprehensive and insufficiently detailed nature, even if I have just given details. However, it is felt more than ever that it is necessary, especially in cases such as the current situation. In the budgetary debates, without knowing what was going to happen, I had quoted the case that came to mind and was more of a time ago, namely that if Ebola arrived in Belgium and tens or hundreds of millions had to be found in order to have the vaccines needed for all Belgians, priority would be given to that. This is a case of force majeure which, thank God, has not come true. There is another case of force majeure and everyone agrees on the objectives. I would also like to thank you for your positive approach to this matter. Here, as a matter of priority, this provision will be used there. We will assess the situation during budgetary control if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u68	Mr Minister, I find it difficult to put it into words, but you are actually saying the same thing you said to us during the budget debate. During that debate, almost every member of the opposition said that you had a problem with the commission. You attribute that commission to a number of necessary expenses. You are now quoting a number of already known expenses, but you knew that at the time. In fact, these expenses could not be included in the commission, because a commission serves to provide money for unforeseen expenses. You put in your commission money for already planned expenses. We said at the time that you had a problem in that area, because you would not have any money for unforeseen expenditure. You're just confirming this right now. You will repeat what expenses you will make. You admit that there is a problem and this will be looked at in connection with budgetary control. Minister, a commission serves to cope with unforeseen circumstances. You cannot do this now because you are using that commission for something else, for expenses that were already planned. What we foretold will come true. If Ebola or the plague were to rise, if we were to face a major train disaster or an earthquake, then you would also have to spend a certain amount of money. That's what the commission's for. I would ask you to provide a real commission for budgetary control so that suddenly emerging problems can be solved. You always refer to the other entities. I've been ships in a big city for ten years. The second largest city in Belgium. A commission was indeed provided for there. That is where the commission does not take into account planned expenditure because then the supervisory authorities immediately say that this is not a commission. You do, and you will, of course, be in trouble if something serious happens. I hope that you will provide a real commission for budgetary control in case anything serious happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u69	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I will not repeat what my colleague, Mrs Temmerman, has said very well about the use of this provision. That said, in this area, what is problematic is communication and a little intellectual dishonesty – that is the term that must be used. Indeed, the Prime Minister has stated on a television set that the means that will be used to combat radicalism and terrorism will be taken from the provision. But you have just demonstrated that it is already fully used. You have confirmed the amounts that were raised during the budget debates. We actually get to the 267 million registered. Declare on a television set that the provision will be used when it is already used is a matter of intellectual dishonesty. On the other hand, it is good to say that the priority is security, but without wanting to repeat the debate, I would like to point out that the resources made available to the State Security, the OCAM, the Federal Police and the police areas have been reduced. Of course, it is a good thing to say that security is a priority, after the last events we have seen. Nevertheless, in the coming days we will be paying attention to the use of this provision, to the way in which the proposed measures will be financed, which must be taken. In addition, I assume that these measures will require a budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u70	Mr President, Minister, in its latest press release at the end of last week, the National Lottery, as you yourself may have noticed, announced that a new daily draw game will be launched in 2015. The National Lottery now organises six days a week trekking games and apparently that is not enough, because it also wants to organize draws on the seventh day. Work will also continue on the installation of vending machines in shopping centres, cinemas and petrol stations. The results of the previous year were also presented. 2014 stands for many people as a crisis year, but like last year, the National Lottery knew its second largest turnover and thus apparently the second largest influx of fortune seekers. That sounds a bit cynical and I find the announcement of extra drawing rather remarkable in that context. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, the National Lottery calls itself a socially responsible and professional service provider in the field of socially responsible game fun. That's a literal quote. The National Lottery also has a social mission in the fight against gambling addiction. How do you evaluate this fight against gambling addiction today and in general? More specifically, how does the National Lottery deal with customers who deal irresponsiblely with lottery and gambling and betting? The National Lottery says that game behavior is channeled, firstly, by responding to market trends; secondly, by conducting responsible communication; and, thirdly, by pursuing optimal publicity, as well as a positive image. How can these elements avoid or correct irresponsible game behaviour? Do you think that's enough to channel game behavior? Secondly, how many customers does the National Lottery find each year that they have irresponsible game behaviour? Thirdly, what definitions or indicators does the National Lottery use to identify irresponsible or excessive game behaviour? Fourthly, how many customers does the National Lottery accompany when irresponsible or excessive consumption of its products is established? How does this guidance work? Are these people accompanied individually and is there also psychological guidance? Do you think that's a proper way of doing things? Now I come to my questions about the new draw game. In your opinion, how does driving up the gaming and trekking frequency and offering via vending machines seem to be compatible with the tasks of combating gambling addiction and socially responsible gaming pleasure? What about the age check at the vending machines? Participation under 18 years is prohibited. You know how much trouble there is about that age limit in the sale of cigarettes. In the press, the National Lottery mentions rosters in, for example, petrol stations that can disable the vending machine remotely. However, that is not obvious, because a rant is also working with other customers. How should the age of the player be checked? Where is the liability if the warrant has not noticed that a minor makes a purchase to the vending machine? Who's gonna supervise that? Who is responsible in other matters, such as shopping centres and cinemas? How exactly does that work? In games of chance and betting, the Council of Ministers lays down the forms and general rules by decision after consulting the Gaming Commission. That doesn't apply to public lotteries. There it is the King who, on the proposal of the guardian minister, you, lays down the forms and rules. Hence the question of which bodies, other than the National Lottery itself of course, you as a guardian minister will appeal for advice on the new daily draw game. To what extent are these machines subject to any supervision or advice from a body other than the National Lottery itself? Is that monitored and by whom? I'll come to my last question. The top man of the National Lottery, the well-known Jannie Haek, states in the press that participation in the games of the National Lottery is not a rational investment, of course, but would not be bad, but would create cohesion and warmth. To what extent do you agree, particularly when the frequency is really increased to daily trekking games and when switching to vending machines? How is that compatible with the creation of coherency and warmth? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u71	Mr President, do I have to understand that the two questions are grouped together?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u72	Yes, but you can answer them separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u73	Characteristic of the products of the National Lottery is that they are intended to provide fun for a wide group of people who play with a small stake. That is completely different with other games of chance. The latter are meant to seduce a small group of people to use large amounts of money. The agreement over the internet has made this kind of gambling easily accessible to the players and has access to it at all times and everywhere. In this combination there is a great danger of gambling addiction. In this context, the National Lottery offers more responsible game fun. It is not logical for players in this country to be able to play online casinos and bets smoothly on Sundays without offering an ethically acceptable alternative lottery product. Therefore, on the basis of the positive opinion of the Responsible Game Committee, consisting of internal and external experts, the National Lottery proposes to organise a daily drawing game. In 2015, 150 dispensers will be provided for 11 million inhabitants, or about fifteen per province. By comparison, in Luxembourg there are also 150 dispensers for a much smaller territory. These are not slot machines or bingo machines, but dispensers of traditional lottery products. The vending machines do not pay any profit, creating extra traffic to the traditional outlets, which remain our preferential partner. There's social control. The vending machines are supervised and can be deactivated at any time by the relevant supervisor. In addition, mystery shopping is organized. In addition, players must explicitly confirm in advance that they are of adult age. These machines therefore comply with all legal, regulatory and deontological rules. There are therefore unnecessary and premature conclusions to be drawn. I have instructed the National Lottery to explain in all transparency to avoid any misunderstandings and I invite all members of the committee to test the aircraft at the headquarters of the National Lottery. Soon I will also invite you to visit the buildings of the National Lottery. I come to the second part of your question. The task of the National Lottery is precisely to contribute to responsible game behaviour through all its activities. Both the development of products, their marketing and contacts with players, either through the retail network or via the Internet, have the highest standards to combat gambling addiction. The National Lottery thus plays a preventive role. In addition, the National Lottery finances scientific research on gambling addiction, also in cooperation with other foreign state lotteries and the conclusions of these studies are actively used to combat gambling addiction. Lottery products distinguish themselves from games of chance by providing fun to a wide group of people who play with a small stake. The operators of gambling, on the other hand, focus on a small group of people who use large amounts of money. Each new product of the National Lottery is developed with respect to European standards in the field of responsible play, checked for all parameters that involve a risk of addiction, subject to an opinion of the Responsible Game Committee, which includes independent psychiatrists and psychologists, and submitted to the Council of State. On the basis of these opinions, the products shall be adjusted as appropriate. The National Lottery is also different from the other operators in Belgium by subjecting its marketing campaigns to a code of ethical advertising, which is also based on a European standard for lotteries and whose compliance is controlled by the JEP, the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising. Strict standards are also applied to the sale of lottery products, either in the retail network or on the Internet. For example, the National Lottery is the only operator in Belgium that applies mandatory maximum financial limits for internet sales. For example, the bet a player can make is always limited, while the bet with other operators is unlimited. All sellers and employees of the National Lottery receive specific training in the field of responsible play. In that context, the National Lottery makes sensitization material available to the sales outlets. The points of sale are sanctioned in their remuneration if they do not comply with the rules of responsible play. Moreover, there is always a social check-up at the outlets and large-scale mystery shopping is organised. Every one and a half years, an independent auditor checks whether the principles of responsible play are strictly applied by all parts of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which, however, has caused me to frown a few times. You argue that a distinction should be made between the National Lottery, which tries to approach a large group with a small bet, and the commercial players, who try the opposite. As far as small amounts are concerned, this is true in part; the contribution is usually limited because it is a half-euro or a euro lottery ticket. However, I believe that today people are seeing less and less of the difference between sharked commercial players and the so-called ethical alternative of the National Lottery, especially when we look at advertising. You say the advertising will be submitted to a jury for ethical advertising. I wonder what is still ethically correct about slogans such as "Become scandalously rich" today, especially in times of crisis. People suffering from setbacks are confronted with such a slogan. I find the temptation to bet on such games and people who are not already very big enough to dodge a few euro coins to be anything but ethically correct. This differs very little from slogans like "Play when feeling lucky" from commercial players. I find this rather objectionable. I would very much like to respond to your invitation for a visit. It seems to me very interesting to have a look at this with this committee and to start the ethical debate there. I know it's not about slots like in Las Vegas. It's more like a coke machine. If you open the radio today, you can't go down with slogans such as "Word" incredibly rich. At least once an hour one gets such a slogan thrown to the head. I have reservations about that. As far as ethics is concerned, you also talked about audits. It might be interesting to pass this audit on to the committee so that we can have a debate on it. Mr Secretary, would you pass those audits on to this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u75	Mr President, that is not a problem for me, but I have to discuss it with the committee. I am in favour of good cooperation with Parliament. I'm willing to invite you to a visit. I think it is important to look at this and certainly at the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-21-54-commissie-ic060x.u76	We look forward to the invitation so that we can see for ourselves exactly what a slot machine looks like, because I have never seen this myself. I'm not looking for that heat.
