ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u1	Minister, we all know that after Vervier's anti-terrorism measures were announced and one of them was that there would be an anti-radical plan in prisons. In doing so, the impressionable prisoners would be spread as much as possible and integrated between the ordinary prisoners. The heavier cases would be housed in very specific departments in two prisons, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia, in order to avoid leading others to radicalisation. That would be Hasselt in Flanders and Ittre in Wallonia. Very recently, after the last attacks, it appeared that three were involved in the same department. Fortunately, it is in Bruges because that is the most secure prison, at least it has a high-security ward for dangerous prisoners. What's the problem with that? Penitentiary officers have not received specific training to deal with such prisoners. They communicate with each other through the windows, even with sheets and similar conditions, they make a ribbon. They also communicate in their language. It's supposed to register that communication, but it's not that simple. Staff shall not understand the language in which the communication takes place. Hasselt and Ittre, the two special departments that would be there, are not yet ready. The trade unions have already announced in the media that neither will open if there is no agreement on the staffing framework. Training on deradicalisation is also ongoing. There are also other measures that you have announced. We've been talking about that recently. These are the Islam consultants and the expert on deradicalisation. There are problems there as a result of a position taken by the Treasury inspection. You have already said that you want to get on with this as quickly as possible so that we do not have to work with a European tender that takes far too much time. I come to my questions. How is it that some of the parties involved in recent attacks are currently living in the same department and can communicate with each other there? How is it avoided that they can communicate effectively with each other? What measures are being taken to ensure that prison staff are informed of the discussions that are taking place between them? When will Hasselt and Ittre be opened to the most dangerous terrorist suspects? What works are currently being carried out? When will negotiations with trade unions start on the staffing framework for these prisons? When do the deradicalisation training courses start for the prison staff of the Hasselt and Ittre prisons? What is the state of affairs regarding the additional recruitments of the nine Islam consultants? Finally, Minister, what is the state of play regarding the recruitment of an expert on deradicalisation in prisons? Have you already been able to convince the administrative and budgetary authorities of the need to be able to recruit quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u2	Mrs. De Wit, the High Security Department of the Bruges Prison is a separate department that has existed for years. It was established in order to place prisoners who pose a continuing threat in an individual special security regime. Article 116 of the basic law on the prison system provides that when the specific circumstances or behaviour of a prisoner reveals that he is a constant threat to internal security, such as aggression or external security, e.g. escape and that other control or security measures are insufficient, he may be placed in such a regime at the High Security. This section therefore has nothing to do with the specialised sections in Hasselt and Ittre, nor with the approach of radicalisation in prisons. Therefore, it is not intended to include a priori radicalised persons in the AIBV. However, a placement in that department may be appropriate for some of them if they meet the legal criteria explained above. In addition to the nature of the facts, other criteria justify their placement on the AIBV. The decision shall be taken in a reasoned manner and shall be valid for a maximum of two months. Its extension should be re-reasoned. This possibility existed in the past. Mr Trabelsi has stayed there several times during his detention here in Belgium. It is true that the three inmates to which you refer met the legal criteria for placing in this AIBV. I am investigating with my administration and the judicial services how to deal with such situations in the future and with respect for the decisions of the investigating judge. The AIBV and the specialised sections can therefore absolutely not be compared. The finality is different, as is the target audience, the means, the philosophy and the approach. The fact that prisoners on the AIBV can communicate with each other through the window has been known since the beginning. It is also very difficult to deal with this, without going against the basic rights of the detainees, in particular to reconcile total isolation with that. The specialised departments in Hasselt and Ittre are ready. The staff has been selected and the trainings have been started for Ittre and already completed for Hasselt. In the meantime, talks with the trade unions are continuing. A consultation meeting will be held before Christmas holidays. The file for additional recruitments of the nine Islam consultants has meanwhile received the green light of the inspection of Finance...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u3	...and also the file for the recruitment of an international team that will be responsible for the development of a deradicalisation program is now in a final phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u4	I have only one short question, Minister. You have explained to me very well that it is under Article 116 of the basic law and according to certain criteria that certain people end up in certain prisons and in a certain secure situation. But that just three people who are suspected of terror are judged only on the basis of those criteria, regardless of the facts, and so come back together, I find very bizarre. I think we need to look a little more broadly and not just keep those criteria in mind. We also have to look at the facts, because this is very difficult to explain. We have applied the law and the criteria. That makes sense, but it's considered separately. Sometimes we have to do one and one and one, three and more, I guess. I would ask you, however, to let the services know that their attention should be paid to this. I find that a difficult situation. At least they're making the situation more difficult. You say one can only avoid communicating with one another by placing them in isolation. It is better to think about this in advance by not putting them all in the same prison. I think so anyway. Or maybe that makes too much sense? This seems to me to be a much more logical solution than putting them in three places in the same establishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u5	Last week, Minister, you announced that you would appoint three additional investigators for Brussels, two French speakers and one Dutch speaker. In the meantime, that's what's happened. It is obvious that you have done so. In this way, the increased volume of work can be better controlled. You have adapted a Royal Decree so that the quorum of specialist investigators in Brussels can be increased from four to seven. For that, you have recruited the investigators who are now investigating common law crimes. There have therefore been no transfer of investigators specialised in terrorism. They have transferred investigators who have previously investigated common-law crimes. From now on, they will only deal with terrorism matters. That's how I understood it, isn't it? They are now exempt from those other common-law offences. I'm a little worried, Minister. Now that there is a smaller file of investigators investigating common-law crimes, they will have much more work to do. They have to do the job with fewer people. This may lead to a delay, hence my questions. Why is it not chosen to work with a special national team of investigators who are effectively specialised in terrorism and who are able to work on it full-time and exclusively, if necessary, cross-border? In this way, no existing pool should be removed. Do you not fear that there will be a delay in the municipal investigations, now that there are only four people there, instead of seven? The crimes will not stop because there happens to be a terrorist threat. Those crimes continue to go on. Do you consider that the primacy rule of Article 79 of the Court's Rules of Procedure should, as a matter of priority, deal with the cases brought before them in the context of the possible creation of a national team? Are you also considering the recruitment of additional investigators for counter-terrorism in Belgium? If so, where and how will it happen? Minister, we need to think about this, because something in me says that we have left for years with the story of terrorism, perhaps more prominent one time than the other. It is often said that we will have to learn to live with it. I do not think that is an attractive idea, but I do think that we should adjust our services a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u6	Mrs De Wit, the choice to work with a pool of exclusive specialised investigators of terrorism, implanted in and operating nationally from Brussels, was an option that was on the table at the time in 2006 but was not prevented by the Minister of Justice and the legislator. At that time, a distribution of the specialist investigators was chosen between the five resorts in proportion to two per resorts, four for Brussels and a German-speaking investigating judge in Eupen. The underlying reasoning was, among other things, that it was possible to better respond to local terrorist phenomena and specificities with which these investigators had a greater touch through their other work of investigating judge in common law crimes. The proximity and cooperation with the local detectives of the federal police was another appreciation element. The recent choice in 2014 of the legislator not to work with a national unit of terrorism in Brussels but with five specialised units in the federal judicial police of Brussels, Antwerp, East Flanders, Charleroi, Mons and Liège, as provided for in Article 105, § 10 of the law on integrated police, is also, of course, an important element in the question of whether or not to create a national pool of specialised investigators on terrorism. If the debate on a national pool of specialised investigators on terrorism were to be opened, the demand for a national investigation unit within the federal police, whether or not with local antennas, would inevitably come up again, just as perhaps the possibility of establishing federal terrorist courts in Brussels. It will be up to the President of the Court of First Instance in Brussels to make the right choices and to fully fill in the framework of the number of investigators and, where appropriate, to supplement them within the legal possibilities. Together with the federal prosecutor, I can support the request to increase the number of investigators in Antwerp. After all, in numbers, Antwerp comes after Brussels in terms of the number of federal terrorist investigations but also immediately after Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For me, the most important thing is that adequate action can be taken, whether through a national pool or as we are doing today. There is, of course, still work to be done on the other common criminal offences. You didn't actually answer that. Those too need to be solved. It must remain accessible to the services. We will follow this up to see whether or not there will be a delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Uyttersprot's 7957 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u9	Minister, I will not repeat my question entirely. After all, it deals with a clear subject, the confiscation of cars, which is problematic. At yesterday's State Road Safety General, you explained what I wanted to ask you today. So I would also like to hear from you before the committee how you will deal with the effective confiscation of vehicles. What are your ideas on the subject? It is therefore a question of how we can prevent vehicles from disappearing and escape the sanction imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u10	Mrs Dumery, the temporary immobilisation and confiscation of a vehicle is governed by Articles 50 and 51 of the Road Traffic Act. The restriction in Article 51, paragraph 1, which refers to the restriction provided for in Article 50, does not, in practice, allow the confiscation to be carried out in respect of the person who knowingly entrusted his motor vehicle to a person who was declared void of the right to drive and thus committed the crime described in Article 49 of the Road Traffic Act. However, that infringement was included in Article 51 in the list of offences for which the confiscation of the vehicle should be possible. However, the ownership requirement under the perpetrator of the crime prevents that. That property requirement refers to the perpetrator of the offence for which the lapse of the right to send was declared and not to the perpetrator of the crime described in Article 49. A technical adjustment is required without the full ownership requirement being thrown overboard. With regard to the disappearance of vehicles, e.g. through a quick sale, where there is a risk of forfeiture, it is necessary to examine whether the legal possibilities for confiscating the vehicle are currently being fully exploited and whether these possibilities are sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and clear answer. We normally deal with this matter in the Infrastructure Committee, because it concerns traffic legislation. We are therefore looking forward to a legislative initiative coming from the government. Otherwise, we will draw up a legislative proposal on this subject ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u12	Question No 7908 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u13	Minister, on December 1, 2015, a Royal Order on the rates of criminal expertise for genetic testing required by a judicial authority came into force. This royal decree is far from satisfying independent laboratories. Several accredited genetic identification laboratories have expressed their discontent and concern at the publication of this royal decree which, according to them, may create a monopolistic situation of the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminalology (INCC) vis-à-vis independent laboratories, a situation which, according to them, may endanger their existence. They have therefore submitted to you a series of alternative proposals which would enable them to continue their activities while meeting the objective of general interest pursued by this draft decree, namely to control the costs of justice. For example, the BIO.be laboratory located in Gosselies works almost exclusively for the investigating judges of Charleroi. In other words, they work almost exclusively with this laboratory, which is fast and efficient, and thus renders them a service, as it helps to speed up the processing of cases. Today, in addition to its dissatisfaction with many private laboratories, this Order could undermine the work of NCIC, which appears to be already overburdened and fails to process requests for genetic testing within the time constraints of this Order. On October 21, 2015, you stated in response to a question that you had been asked in the Justice Committee, that the NCIC had committed itself to providing the results for reference samples within seven working days and that, if the deadlines could not be met, the investigating judge intended to grant an additional time or reduce the cost statements introduced. Minister, can you confirm to me that NCIC will be able to provide the results of the samples within seven days? In addition, do you think they have the capacity to cope with the many demands they will face in the future, since private laboratories will no longer be used? Should this workload not first be addressed before considering a de facto monopoly? Furthermore, are you in talks with the various private laboratories on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u14	By thanking you for the interest in an essential part of the administration of evidence in criminal matters, I have taken this issue to heart. In consultation with the Council of State, NCIC's monopoly position was rejected for a limited number of tasks. The operation of the whole process will therefore not change. Any strong relationship based on trust and quality that now exists between laboratories and courts can continue to exist. Each laboratory will be able to demonstrate that it can provide high-quality results within the agreed time frames. You ask if the NCIC has the ability to perform this task that would be assigned exclusively to it. This question is no longer relevant since each laboratory remains competent for all tasks of the process. I have spoken several times with the various laboratories and have become aware of their concerns about pricing. Be convinced that I have balanced the interests of each laboratory, given the technological developments in the sector and the need to keep the costs of justice to a reasonable level of cost for the litigant. I will ensure that the situation is assessed on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u15	Thank you, Minister. I hope that we will continue to move in the right direction, without it being at the expense of judicial services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in 2011, the European Union adopted a directive on the fight against sexual abuse of minors and against the spread of child pornography. They laid down a number of minimum rules on the definition of the criminal offences and the penalties against them. The Directive also lays down certain measures to prevent convicted persons from continuing to engage in professional activities in which they may come into contact with children. Member States were given two years to implement the Directive. By the end of December 2013, that should have happened. At the beginning of 2014, the European Commission sent Belgium a letter because it had not yet done so, but our country's response was not satisfactory. It has now given the government two months to convince it that the necessary measures have been taken or will be taken, otherwise it threatens to bring a case before the European Court of Justice. Our country will risk punishment and fines. Several organisations, such as Child Focus, have been asking for transposition for some time and especially for a better approach in the fight against child pornography. Firstly, where are we on the implementation of this directive? Secondly, how come implementation takes so much time? Thirdly, are you expecting a solution by February, so that our country avoids a complaint to the Court of Justice? If so, what exactly will this solution entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u17	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the European directive 2011/92 on combating sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography had to be transposed into Belgian law by the end of 2013. In the same context, some provisions of the European Directive 2011/36 of 5 April 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings should also be transposed into Belgian law. The draft law for transposition was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October and was sent to the Council of State for its opinion. We have now received this opinion. The preliminary draft is currently being examined and adapted as necessary to the opinion of the Council of State and will be able to be put to Parliament for a vote soon, subject to the agreement of the Inter-Kabinette Working Group after the Christmas holidays. The European Commission will receive an answer to its questions on transposition, which will allow it to take note of the draft texts and the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u18	Minister, if I understand correctly, we may be able to vote on this in January or February and perhaps just in time to avoid a procedure before the European Court of Justice. I admit that it is not your responsibility that the transposition did not take place by 2013. That is certainly not a reproach. Mr President, I understand that we will have to work hard in January if this matter is to be included on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u20	Minister, following an article in Dag Allen, questions have already been asked last week about safety and working conditions in prisons. Another aspect we could read in that article, namely the financial practices of the Directorate for Prison Labour. Since this is a state service with separate management, it is obliged to submit the annual balance sheet and profit and loss account to the Court of Auditors, but this would often have been delayed in recent years. The transfer of profits to the State Treasury, another legal obligation, often takes place only years after the date. First of all, is it true that the accounts are often presented to the Court of Auditors years after their date? If so, what is the reason for that? Secondly, what is the latest audited account of the Regie for Prison Labour by the Court of Auditors? Thirdly, is it true that there is a great deal of delay in passing on annual profits? If so, what is the reason? Fourthly, what year is the latest paid-in profit? How much was that? I would also like to have an overview of the last ten years, if possible. Finally, what actions do you intend to take to ensure that this can be done more quickly and correctly in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u21	Mr Van Hecke, thank you for your question on the financial situation of the Directorate for Prison Labour. For my reply, I refer first of all to the law approving the general account of the general administration of the year 2013 and the implementation accounts of the budget of State services with separate management of the previous years, adopted on 19 November 2015. This indeed shows that the latest approved account of the Regie for Prison Labour dates back to 2009. My services have therefore been invited, together with the competent services of the FPS, to ensure that the final conclusion of the approval procedure can be speeded up. However, the services of the Court of Auditors have in the meantime already examined the accounts up to and including 2012. As a cause of the delay, the management services refer to the difficulties in transferring the accounts to the FPS Finance and the long-term absences of accounting experts in the direction. With regard to the resulting delay in the transfer of profits, it should be noted that the resources of the State services under separate management are part of the Treasury's global resources. In concrete terms, the funds are always in accounts that are consolidated with those of the Treasury. However, final approval is required in order to formally allocate those profits to the Treasury and to deduct them from the management's accounts. The latest formal allocation dates from 25 October 2012 for an amount of EUR 4 463 648, composed of the profits of 2007, EUR 2 262 878, EUR 2008, EUR 1 081 309, and EUR 1 119 461 from 2009, EUR 1. For the last ten years, the following amounts have been paid in. I hope you will excuse me from reading the amounts from 2006 to 2009. I'll get them to you. The mandate has been given to regularise the situation administratively, at the latest on the first draft approval of the general account of the State and of the implementation accounts of the budgets of the State Administrations with separate management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the full answer. I believe that your explanation shows that stricter supervision is necessary and that many things will need to be regularised in the near future. I hope you will keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u23	According to information from the Vervietian judiciary, the purchase by the Régie des Bâtiments of the premises located on the ground floor of the T.Palm building to accommodate the services of the courthouse would be postponed until 2016. According to the same sources, the Justice FPS would delay the validation of the plans, an essential element for the Régie des Bâtiments to finalize the transaction. In the face of these procrastinations, I cannot hide my concern. As the Finance Inspectorate had agreed, it was therefore entirely conceivable and even desirable that this matter should be resolved by 31 December 2015. Can you clarify the planning of the provision of these premises so that the exercise of justice can be carried out under optimal conditions in Verviers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u24	The plans were validated with a few observations. We are in the process of drawing up the furniture plans in order to take them into account when installing the wiring. As far as we are concerned, the file is well advanced. A month ago, I had already informed the Régie des Bâtiments about the schedule of work. I had then learned that the purchase was planned for this month and the provision was made by the end of 2016, so that the move could take place at the beginning of 2017. If this schedule has been changed, I don't know. I will therefore ask my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u25	If I repeat the answer that your colleague Jambon gave me on 6 January, he explained that only a few weeks were needed to finalize the file. We'll meet again a year later without anything happening. I can understand that administrative procedures and plans are needed, but I ask you to be very careful because without this material availability, it will become impossible to exercise justice in Verviers. That would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u26	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of this week we were able to read in various media that the mayor of Ghent was not allowed access because it has apparently already been resolved in the list of radicalised young people, unlike other mayors, such as those of Mechelen and Vilvoorde. The statement was a little weird, apparently the police would have refused to provide this information to the mayor. The police said it wasn't allowed by the court. The parquet said that it never got a question of its own. In other words, it was a cacophony and passing the blackbird from one to the other. We have no interest in this, and it must be clear which information is available and who should make what information available. Is it true that the mayor of Ghent has not been given access to this? For what reasons could the mayor of Ghent not have knowledge of this? What criteria are used to give some mayors access or not access to the lists? Is there a clear directive on this? In the meantime, I know that there is a letter for foreign fighters, which Members of Parliament should not normally have any knowledge, but sometimes it gets into our box. I have just noticed that Chapter 6 deals with the communication to mayors. Was this directive correctly applied in this case or not? Do you intend to contact the mayor, the public prosecutor or the police in this case in order to clarify the situation and to clarify the situation so that these problems can no longer arise in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u27	Mr Van Hecke, like you, I read in the media that the mayor of Ghent was unable to access the list of foreign terrorist fighters. However, the starting point of the joint letter of 21 August from Minister Jambon and myself is clear in that respect: mayors must have a good idea of all foreign terrorist fighters on their territory. Consequently, the information should also be shared with them as a maximum in the form of an information card. So there's no reason why the mayor of Ghent wouldn't have access to this. There is no reason why one mayor should have access and the other wouldn't. All mayors facing the problem of foreign terrorist fighters must be given the same information. In the meantime, I heard that the problem has been solved and that the principles laid down in the letter will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u28	Minister, I am very pleased to note that the persons concerned will apply the directive. It seems that the directive is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-12-16-54-commissie-ic297x.u29	Question No 8006 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 8024 was withdrawn.
