ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in response to a question from our colleague Mr Daerden, you confirmed that only a minority of employees (6%) should work until the new statutory retirement age of 67. I quote from your answer: "Given that the reference period does not increase, there is no reason to consider that the proportion of assets will be greater than that currently seen among 65-year-olds". Moreover, when it comes to convincing the European Commission that the Belgian State will fulfil its commitments in terms of budget deficit or debt reduction, the government highlights its reform of the pension system. I will not go back to the fact that those who accepted the retirement age postponement had not announced it in the election campaign, but there is still a question of convincing workers to agree to work longer and convince employers to hire or retain them. In this educational work that awaits you, you have some handicaps that result from your government agreements even if some are tempted to defer or postpone them. For example, requiring companies to take care of two months of incapacity for work instead of one month is not likely to motivate them to employ seniors. Of course, the government has decided to postpone the entry into force of this measure, but, to my knowledge, it has not definitively waived it. The risk of incapacity for work increases inevitably with age. Several sources have recently shown, with supporting figures, that absenteeism increases with age and that older workers are absent longer than young people because of incapacity to work. It's also a hindrance to hiring seniors. To push more on this brake by doubling the burden on companies for long-term disabilities also seems counterproductive to me in relation to the priority objective of extending the legal age of retirement to 67 years. As far as the motivation of workers is concerned, I shall confine myself to recalling the restrictions which have already been the subject of parliamentary debates, such as the abolition of the pension bonus and the abolition of credit for time and the interruption of unmotivated careers. However, the ability to better reconcile work and privacy is part of motivation and well-being at work and the willingness to work up to a delayed age. Minister, can you tell me how you are going to reconcile the objective you have set yourself of deferring the legal age with the countermeasures I have just indicated to you? How are you going to invite the social partners to enter into government logic? How will you guarantee the European Commission that the 6% of workers who will still be working at 67 years of age will be large enough to contribute to budgetary balance? How are you going to find the motivational means to achieve the goals you set yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u2	Mr President, I would like to say to the honourable Member that I have drawn on his own positions to support retirement at 67, and I thank him for his contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u3	(...) at the time of election campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u4	A lot has happened since then. In particular, there was the report of the Pension Reform Commission, which put forward as its main assumption the postponement of the statutory pension age to 67, which has just been confirmed by one of its members, Professor Hindriks, who is now up to 70 years old. I often repeat that if the 1925 criteria were applied, i.e. when the pension was set at 65 with a life expectancy of 57 years, the pension age should be set at 95 today. That's not what we're gonna do. On the contrary, we will remain within extremely reasonable limits, ensuring that everyone works a little longer. That's the goal. There was a lot of "disputing" about how many people were going to work until the age of 67. I cannot, of course, give a precise answer to that. What I know is that less than 10% of people actually work up to the age of 65. That's very clear. A similar percentage is likely to be up to 67 years of age. Some will go until they're 66 years old. Others will reach the age of 65 and represent a slightly higher percentage. More people will still work until 63 or 64 years of age, as early pensions are raised to 63 years of age. Overall, there will be a delayed exit effect, i.e., we will ideally move from the current 59-year average to the OECD average of 63- or 63-1/2-year-olds. That's the goal. To reach the age of 63 or 63 and a half, it is necessary to go through this legislative amendment, which sets a course that is that of 67 years. You're talking about incapacity for work. Quality of life improves as longevity increases. In the health care sector, which I know a little bit, we find that costs have nothing to do with age – this goes against your perceived ideas. What is expensive is the last five years of life – whether it's an octagenary or an unageenary. The same applies to incapacity for work. The majority of them intervene in the years preceding the end of their careers. That it is rejected does not necessarily change the situation. In addition, this measure corresponds to what is being done in other European countries. I tend to say we're rarely right on our own. All European states will reduce the retirement age to 67 years. It's becoming the standard. Some will even rise to sixty-eight, such as Ireland and Great Britain. It is necessary to exclude France, which is a particular country in this respect, since it is the thirty-five hour period. Hence the question of people from other states who say, "We thought there were only twenty-four hours in a day." Although I think we should draw inspiration from France in several areas, in this case we should not be bound by this exception. We need to be reasonable. As the retirement age at the age of sixty-seven tends to become the European standard, we have been encouraged to propose this measure. I think I've answered your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u5	I thank the minister for his attention to the electoral commitments we made in the clearest way. With even more nuances than he would have said, we were especially referring to those who had to start a career more than those who were already in work. This does not prevent us from thinking that it may not be necessary to wait for the report of a commission to know that the lengthening of life would have consequences for the period of professional activity, that goes without saying. It was not necessary to wait for a new development such as the report to anticipate certain consequences. On the other hand, and I will come back to it when you talk about the legal measures, I would like to refer to the end-of-career measures. You can explain a lot. I am one of those who think that it is not appropriate to freeze on attitudes related to situations acquired in different circumstances of life, a few decades ago. But the psychology needed to admit such notorious developments is also to show that there are end-of-career arrangements. The government agreement has a lot of weaknesses, or a lot of inadequacies, or even a lot of lack of clarification. We'll have the opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement included the following passage: "The government will examine, in consultation with the Communities, the Regions and local authorities, how to replace the sickness pension for civil servants with an invalidity pension under the sickness and invalidity scheme for workers. This means that in future statutory staff would also be covered by a similar status as disabled workers. The calculation of the sickness pension is the same as that of the ordinary retirement pension in the public sector. Anyone who ends up in this system at a very young age because of illness, something that cannot be done by himself, will in many cases receive a very low monthly amount. I can even give you some examples of this. There are even people who get about EUR 930 per month, while they still have two dependent children. They get no holiday money, no year-end bonus and no other advantage, purely because they are sick. There are two cases in which this form of pension is granted. Either someone is found permanently physically unfit by the competent medical service, Medex or any other. Either he or she is automatically retired the first day of the month following the month in which he or she has a total of 365 calendar days of sick leave and/or disability due to illness since the 60th birthday. That can be consecutive or spread over the year. In recent years, the sickness pension has represented a considerable mass, 13 to 15% of the increase in the retirement pension for civil servants. I have the following questions. What is the average amount of pension for civil servants receiving a retirement pension for physical incapacity, broken down according to the two cases in which this pension can be granted? In fact, I should have asked what the lowest amount is. I don't know if you can give me that information, Minister? That is what this is about: some people who end up in the system very young really get a very low amount of money. After all, the average doesn't say everything. One can drown in a river that is on average ten centimeters deep. That is why I would like to ask not only for the average amount, but also for the lowest amount. Have you already consulted the Regions, the Communities and the local authorities, as provided for in the government agreement? In the event of a reform of the sickness pension, will this only apply to the new inflow or also to the people who are already using the system? Can they still go to the sickness and invalidity system, which is also better for themselves in the end? I think it is a very poignant matter, because illness is not something one can choose from. If this is going to make us lose money, then we really need to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the question I have put has just been dealt with and answered, but for the sake of completeness, I will just ask them to insist that you take action on the initiatives announced as soon as possible. These initiatives will be taken, but they still have to be taken by an administrative mill. We urge you to ensure that, with regard to the problem of the cumulation of civil servants' pensions with sickness benefits and pensions for persons with mixed employment, a problem which Mrs Fonck has also raised and which I and my colleague Mr De Vriendt have already raised in this committee is postponed retroactively, that the sums recovered are not recovered and that a proper solution is found. In addition, we insist that this solution comes very quickly, because it concerns people who see the bills coming in every month but whose benefits have been cut by half. My second question concerns a similar but different problem. I was just talking about people doing private and public jobs at the same time. The second problem concerns people who end up in civil service after a period in the private sector. If they have to quit their duties after less than 10 years for medical reasons, they will receive only a limited income, calculated on their civil servant's benefits. They must then wait until they are 65 years old before they also receive the retirement pension, calculated on the benefit on the private market. There is also the problem of reintegration into the labour market. The medical committee of the public sector is going to see if one can be put back to work within one's own job. In the system of sickness and invalidity benefits, there is a wider search for alternatives. Retiring after 365 days of illness after 60 years of age is no longer an option for reintegration. The Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 proposes the solution to replace the sickness pension with the ZIV scheme for employees. That slope was also included in the government agreement, you know the passage: "The government, in consultation with the Regions, the Communities and local authorities, will examine how the sickness pension for civil servants can be replaced by disability benefits under the sickness and invalidity scheme for employees." What measures will you take in the pension regulations to implement that part of the government agreement? Do you have a date in sight? Is the retirement scheme for officials who are ill 365 days after the age of 60 deleted in this context? Has this been discussed with the Communities and the Regions and local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u8	Minister, we have just addressed this issue at the level of the bill. And my colleagues in the majority do not speak contrary to what I said earlier. In fact, if this clarification had already been made at the level of this bill, it would have clearly brought this legal uncertainty to an end, especially since the social partners are already well aware and have discussed this issue widely. These are very difficult situations which worsen from month to month. It is important to make this correction. In this correction, it is necessary first of all to terminate the prohibition of cumulation from 1 January 2013 and again to allow the cumulation between a pension for physical incapacity and a replacement income. Secondly, it is important to inform as soon as possible of the timetable for the implementation of the decision in relation to the persons concerned who are in a difficult situation. Thirdly, the situation of persons who have already renounced the benefits must be resolved in order to continue to benefit from the pension because of physical incapacity. So where are you at at the level of social consultation with the Minister of Public Health, because she herself will soon have to restore the right at the level of INAMI? The fourth point to be achieved is the adjustment of the arrears required since 1 January 2013 with repayment terms for those who have already paid those arrears. Indeed, these must of course be able to be repaid, and this quickly, since we are going to play over different fiscal years. In doing so, they may also be at risk of being punished. I can't imagine we don't take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u9	Mr President, the average pension for civil servants receiving a retirement pension for physical incapacity after decision of the medical service is EUR 1 671.88 gross per month. The average pension amount of officials who were automatically retired for physical incapacity after 365 days of sick leave or of those who went on posting after their 60th birthday is EUR 2 040.46 gross per month. These are therefore high minimum amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u10	I myself had raised an amount of EUR 900, which someone has to live with, as a head of the family with two children. Sometimes it's even less. It can be very poignant sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u11	Yes, as you point out, the amount is often much lower if the person is declared unfit for work at a young age. The implementation of the programme law of 28 June 2013, which provides in article 91 an absolute prohibition on the cumulation of public sector retirement pensions with replacement income, has revealed that this prohibition may lead to extremely difficult social situations in certain cases of disability pension. A preliminary draft law on the re-establishment of the cumulation of pension due to physical incapacity and a replacement income was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 6 March last. This preliminary draft will then be the subject of social consultation before being analysed by the Council of State. The preliminary draft abolishes the cumulation ban with retroactive effect from 1 January 2013. As a result, the pensions suspended will be re-implemented and the pension amounts already reimbursed by those concerned will be refunded to them. With regard to the situation of persons who had given up their replacement income in order to benefit from their retirement pension because of physical incapacity, consultations still have to be held with the ministers responsible for granting such replacement income – i.e. the Minister of Employment for unemployment benefits and the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health for primary incapacity and disability benefits. With regard to Mr De Roover's specific question on the possibility of replacing the pension system for physical incapacity by a scheme of disability benefits for workers through sickness and invalidity insurance, I can inform you that I will be negotiating with the Regions and the Communities as well as with the local authorities as included in the government agreement with my colleague, Minister De Block. This consultation starts at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u12	Did you answer my last question, Minister, and I asked you whether this would apply to those who are already in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u13	Yes, yes. Those who have had to pay their pension will be reimbursed. For invalidity benefits and unemployment benefits, they will also be paid if they have given up receiving them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd already heard on the premises that the deductions hadn't happened yet. You are now saying that it has happened to some people and that all sums unduly collected from 1 January will be repaid. For the others, it is already not being applied today. This is corrected by the law on various provisions that is coming, for which I thank you. I hope that the problem will be solved in this way. It was indeed a forgetfulness in the previous approved programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your answer to both questions. As far as the first question is concerned, I trust that there will soon be a sound solution, both for what has already happened and for what remains to be done. As far as the second question is concerned, I would urge you to act with due urgency, given the specific problems of some people. Waarvoor dank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u16	Minister, thank you. I stress the importance of making the corrections as soon as possible. That is why I tabled an amendment to this afternoon's bill. You have committed yourself to the various points that I have insisted on, which is positive. I would also like to insist that once the decision is made, there can be very quick information on implementation so that people know quickly who to turn to and how to do it. The various representative associations should also be informed of the timetable as soon as the text has come back from the various consultation committees, passed to the Council of State, returned to the government at second reading and tabled in Parliament. Let's be honest, all this will last a number of weeks. You refused my amendment earlier, but I am still making a proposal. We have passed the bill, but in the meantime, you will have continued to move forward on the other bill. I think it would be a good idea if we could complete the text with a joint amendment in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u18	You know as well as I do that the Council of State does not rule on the substance but on jurisdiction and form. I believe that the issue of jurisdiction is not a shadow of a fold since it is a correction of a 2013 program law. The fact that you did not accept the amendment earlier is purely political, but I would like to say that it would be a plus for the people concerned and that it would save a significant amount of time if you turned a small part of your new draft bill into an amendment that could be passed collectively and positively into plenary. This has already been seen in other texts. At least the difficulty of these people would be measured. I hear everyone say that these are very delicate and very difficult situations and that we have to go fast. Now, let's go quickly!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u19	Mr President, I am sorry, but I am still unclear. Mr Minister, you did answer about the accumulation and what went wrong with the reimbursement. However, with regard to the implementation of the government agreement, you say that you still have to negotiate with the Communities and the Regions. It is a question of replacing sickness pensions with disability benefits, and that is something that has yet to be done. Will that only apply to the new influx or also to those who are already in that system today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u20	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u21	I am not just talking about the sums that are being accumulated, but about what still needs to be agreed with the regions. Does it also apply to those who are now in the system? You said you hadn't negotiated that yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u22	For those people, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u23	But you still had to negotiate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u25	So can I reassure those concerned and tell them that it applies to them too, so to those who are already in the system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u27	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u28	Mr President, Minister, my question is perhaps a little technical and concerns the conversion of usufruct into the income guarantee scheme. If someone would get a real estate or give it away and receive an IGO, the value of that property will also be taken into account. If you have too high an income or a property worth too high an amount, you are not entitled to an IGO. At the same time, Article 32 (3) provides that the value of that usufruct is to be set at 40% of the value in full ownership at a distance from usufruct. In other words, regardless of the age of the person concerned, we are pretending that the usufruct is 40% of the value of a property. Not so long ago, on 22 May 2014, specific tables were drawn up in the context of the amendment of the Civil Code to record the valuation of usufruct in the context of the inheritance right of the surviving spouse and other partners. That happened because there were some discussions about the value of usufruct and naked property, including with notaries. Following a question I was asked about the IGO, I noticed that within the IGO people simply take a fixed value for usufruct and that the age of the person concerned is not taken into account. However, the enjoyment of someone who is 85 is much less valuable because one assumes that they will not live as long as the enjoyment of someone who is much younger. Hence my question: is there a reason for this? It may have been that there was a specific reason why the amount of this usufruct was fixed at 40% at the time, without taking into account age. To what extent do you consider it fair not to take into account, when awarding the IGA, any value which may be altered according to the tables of civil law? Do you intend to review this and, if necessary, adapt it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u29	Mr President, it is true that the use of real estate is appreciated in the Civil Code, taking into account the gender and age of the person concerned. On the other hand, the calculation of the income guarantee for older people is based on a fixed valuation of 40% at a distance from usufruct. I would like to add that the calculation of the living wage of the same 40% rating is based on the distance from usufruct as the IGO. This concerns royal decree of 11 July 2002, Article 28 (3). It was not by chance that the legislation for the IGA and the right to social integration was introduced during the same legislative period, in 2001 and 2002, respectively. The fixed valuation of 40% is always in the royal decree, but neither is a report available to the King explaining the choice of 40%. Therefore, I cannot explain in detail why a valuation of 40% has been specifically chosen. However, I note that the purpose of the IGO and the living wage is completely different from the purpose of the Civil Code transposition table. The conversion table of the Civil Code is intended to determine the amount of inheritance rights to be paid by the person concerned. The value of usufruct is rightly determined here according to the life expectancy of the person concerned. However, the IGO and the living wage are welfare benefits. It is a question of determining one's means of subsistence in order to determine whether one can obtain an IGO or a living wage. The role played by the home and the usufruct here is the same regardless of the sex and age of the person concerned. The possession or possession of a dwelling is a crucial element in the income situation for each person concerned and can mean the difference between the need for assistance or not. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to propose a change in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u30	Thank you, Minister. I could follow you if it were to have a complete home. The situation I have in mind is one where there were eight or nine brothers and sisters. This concerned the usufruct of one dwelling, which still had to be shared. He didn't really enjoy it. I can follow you in that: if someone can live for free, they can be taken into account and the conversion table may not be relevant. Actually, it was just the valuation. If that is an effective valuation in money, one can say that it does not make sense. Don't get me wrong: I think it's normal for an IGO to carry out an income survey. I am simply asking whether they are properly appreciated in this respect. I do not know if this is common, but ask whether it is relevant to make a change here. If there are many people in this situation, it makes a difference, especially when I hear that they charge the same rates for living wages and IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u31	Mr President, Minister, in your general policy note which we mentioned this morning on other topics, you indicated that a national pension advisory committee would be set up for the ongoing and systematic monitoring of the social and financial sustainability of the pension system. You said that this committee would have a tripartite composition. It would bring together representatives of both the federal government and the various levels of government, representatives of the social partners in the private sector (employees and independents) and representatives of the social partners in the public sector. In this context, Minister, could you tell us when this committee will be operational? It would be very interesting for associations representing seniors to be members of this committee, particularly as social interlocutors in the private sector, if they were to be included in the tripartite composition. I am thinking, for example, of Eneo, who is a social movement of seniors. More generally, what place does the government intend to place for seniors in pension thinking? They are obviously not the only ones concerned because all generations are concerned, but they are strongly concerned at the timing. Moreover, in a society of the twenty-first century, it would be interesting to include seniors in this type of work and committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Fonck, I confirm your willingness to implement quickly the National Pensions Committee (NPC), the Centre of Expertise and the academic council provided for in the Government Agreement. A preliminary draft law will be submitted shortly for approval by the Council of Ministers with the aim of formally establishing the National Pensions Committee before July. The composition of the Committee, which will be tripartite, was approved by the Council of Ministers and the Group of Ten at their joint meeting on 11 February (eight members for employers and self-employed, eight members for workers, including three for the civil service, and eight members for the federal government). As the structure is expected to be as efficient as possible, the draft bill states that the National Pension Committee opens the possibility of conducting committee work. The members of the National Pension Committee will therefore be free to set up an ad hoc committee according to the topics dealt with and the schemes concerned. They will also be free to determine their composition. This means that they will be able to invite, if they consider it useful, the Elder Advisory Board or a particular association representing seniors. The establishment of a commission, its composition and the decision to invite non-LWOP representatives will, however, require the approval of more than two-thirds of the LWOP members. This last provision is made to prevent the creation of a multitude of commissions and, ultimately, the dilution of the work such that it is no longer compatible with efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. [[I have heard the way and timing of the implementation.]] In terms of composition, I note that, except by invitation, senior representatives will only be involved in anecdotal ways through possible committee work. The cumulative conditions you mentioned are still very restrictive. I think it would have been interesting, in a more contemporary view and for such a particular theme, to be able to have a participatory approach with the associations representing the seniors, even if I do not question the organisation and the functioning of the tripartite system. The debate is not closed and there may be a way to change things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u34	Minister, the law of 15 May 2014 entered into force on 1 January of this year. This law ensures that reforms and cuts in foreign pension schemes are no longer compensated by the Belgian State. The Netherlands is such an example. There a pension reform was carried out and the KOB grant, the purchasing power meeting for older taxpayers, was replaced by an income support AOW, an income support on top of the classic pension. The method of calculation for this is different from the method of calculation for the KOB. For several people this means a reduction in the amount they receive on top of their Dutch retirement pension. Indeed, as a result of the law of 15 May 2014, that austerity is no longer met by Belgium. The Law of 15 May 2014 states that if the amount of the statutory pension granted to a foreign pension scheme is reduced, the supplement to that pension will only be increased if this reduction is the result of an adjustment of the insurance periods taken into account for the calculation of that foreign pension. Minister, the law of 15 May 2014 does not specify how the concept of statutory pension should be interpreted. The question is whether that definition corresponds to the definition contained in the Programme Act of 19 December 2014 which states that "legal pension' means any statutory, administrative or statutory old-age, retirement, retirement or survivor's pension or any other benefit of a Belgian or foreign pension scheme or pension scheme of an international institution as such. A Belgian who has been temporarily employed in the Netherlands has therefore received, on top of that pension, no longer a grant from KOB but an income support from AOW. This could be understood as a retirement pension valid benefit based on the description in the Programme Act of 19 December 2014. An additional question is whether the concept of statutory pension as it should be understood in the Law of 15 May 2014 covers only the retirement pension AOW or whether it includes income support on the AOW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u35	Mr President, the concept of a statutory pension covers a different load in the two texts cited. In the Law of 15 May 2014, the term statutory pension refers only to its common general interpretation, which is the pension of the first pillar. The Programme Act of 19 December 2014 which regulates the pension complement for frontier work specifically defines the concept of statutory pension not only to name the pensions of the first pillar but also those of the second pillar and any other benefit scheme giving rise to the payment of a pension. On the second question I can answer that the income support AOW represents an increase in the statutory pension, i.e. the pension of the first pillar, in particular the Dutch AOW. As such, the increase is part of the AOW itself and is considered as a statutory pension within the meaning of the Law of 15 May 2014. There is no discrimination in the case of frontier workers receiving a family pension. Although the law of 15 May 2014 stabilises the amount of the pension supplement granted for frontier work, that law does not prevent the amount of the family pension from being adjusted to the reduced foreign pension allowance. The person concerned must inform the National Pensions Office, RVP, of the reduced foreign pension allowance so that the RVP can adapt the family pension paid to the new situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for this rather technical explanation. However, uncertainty remains an asset for many people involved in such a situation. It is clear that the term pension has no clear meaning. It is important that the legislation is clear and clear, not least because uncertainty leads to only the most empowered people finding their way to the RVP. You say that people themselves should take the initiative to inform the National Pensions Office of the changed situation. Well, that means that much less mature fellow citizens suffer from the reduction in their pension amount. At the very least, a clarification of this law is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Vanheste's 2546 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u38	Mr President, Minister, this is a question about the guarantee of the return of supplementary pensions. In the media, you have indicated that you are open to the demand of the insurance sector to review the guaranteed returns on payments in supplementary pensions. You want to distinguish between the return on past contributions and new contributions. You said this in the aftermath of the plenary debate we had on this subject. I have some questions. First of all, what is the state of play in the NAR? Will you make your own proposal? Secondly, what insurers have already decided not to continue paying the guaranteed interest rate of 3.25 % on employers' contributions and 3.75 % on employees' contributions? How many members are affected by this? Thirdly, the guarantee of return applies only at the end of the journey, namely the final maturity of the contract. If the return is not achieved, the employer must adapt. Has this actually happened in recent years? If so, when? What insurance companies? For what amounts? How many contracts? Fourthly, to what extent do you understand the argument of a number of experts that a market-based return, for example based on the yield of 10-year government bonds, will no longer be de facto attractive to employees, also given the long investment horizon and the expectation of high returns? Finally, the government subsidises these supplementary pensions by allowing employers to deduct their contributions as a professional cost under certain conditions. To what extent will the government retain this tax advantage after adjusting the guaranteed returns? In this context, I would also like to ask you how much the cost of this tax deduction was for the government in 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u39	Minister, I will add a few additional elements on this important issue at a time when you are announcing that you want to democratize and generalize the supplementary pension of the second pillar. It is clear that this only makes sense if it is attractive and safe. As my colleague has just said, the sector is expressing fears and is calling for a reduction in the guaranteed mandatory rate of return. If I refer to your comments in the press, you asked the National Labour Council for an opinion for June 30th. In any case, you pointed out that if by 30 June there was no opinion, you would "take your responsibilities". Is that it? In this context, I would like to ask you a few questions. Do you intend to go back to the commitments for contributions already made? I agree with my colleague's question. When the sector refers to the current OLO interest rate, is that not a bit reducing? Indeed, this theme must be analysed in time, and not only at a specific moment. Indeed, for some time the rates were significantly higher and there they did not propose to increase the guaranteed rate. But there is more: the diversity of investments and representative assets. These are not just investments in government bonds or bonds; they may be investments in real estate or shares. The question then arises: what rules are they applicable? What kind of assets do we want? Would it not be logical to consider this diversity of portfolios, which makes it possible to have a generally higher return than the OLOs report? In this context, what are your intentions? What are the returns of insurance companies and pension funds objectively, because they are governed by different rules? It is indeed necessary to talk about the two sides if the topic is to be addressed. Will this reduction in yield obligation not lead to an increase in dividends that these companies or pension funds can distribute to their shareholders? I believe that it must be avoided. Finally, I hear your concern to respect the consultation and to await the opinion of the National Labour Council which will be delivered on 30 June. I am therefore surprised, on the basis of information which has come back to me, to learn that the subject will be dealt with tomorrow in Kern. Isn't that contradictory? That is why I would have liked to have heard your opinion in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u40	On 24 February 2015, I sent a letter to the National Labour Council asking them to resume their work on this question. A first meeting will take place at the National Labour Council on 19 March 2015. I would like to present a note which deals with all aspects of this problem. This will be discussed during the discussion with the social partners. I can tell you, moreover, that there has been a limited Council of Ministers this morning. This confirmed my proposal to send this question to the social partners. Today, no insurer offers on new insurance contracts and new premiums older insurance contracts, unless they receive an interest guarantee on future premiums – this exists – guaranteed interest rates at least equivalent to the rate of return required by the Supplementary Pensions Act. Mr Daerden asked me if I wanted to exercise control over insurance companies. I draw his attention to the fact that, as Minister of Pensions, I am not competent to do so. My only concern is to ensure that the second pillar becomes general, which can only be done if there is a performance guarantee that adequately protects affiliates, while taking into account the reality of financial returns. I shall now come to the question of why this matter has been submitted to Kern, to which I shall reply that it is the case for all matters. I had to report on the steps I have taken to the National Labour Council, the next meeting of which will take place on 17 March. I have indicated that on this occasion I will file a note asking questions. Indeed, the file is much more complex than we imagine. There are a lot of sub-questions. This therefore requires an inventory of issues. That is the purpose of the note I will file with the NTC. I'll wait until he says something about it. In principle, no member is currently affected by this reduction, because if the insurer does not offer a total return, guaranteed interest rate and profit participation equal to that provided for by law, the employer is legally obliged to compensate. That is also the subject of the current debate. I do not have any information on any sums that employers have already had to pay in order to compensate for the deficit resulting from the guarantee of return on supplementary pensions provided for by law. I leave it to the social partners to assess what is acceptable to retain as a guaranteed return so that it protects workers sufficiently. However, as I have already said, we cannot, of course, close our eyes to the reality of financial returns. I would like to make it clear to Mr Daerden that I am not competent either with regard to pre-pension. As far as I am concerned, however, I can say that in the event of unanimous agreement by the social partners on a possible revision of the performance guarantee, I undertake to defend it with my partners. As regards the price of the tax benefits, I invite you to ask my colleague, the Minister of Finance, who is competent to answer on this issue. There is no direct link between any revision of the guarantee of return and these tax advantages.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u41	Minister, I thought the questions of my colleague and myself were more interesting than the answers, if I may put it that way. Firstly, you say that you do not have the data or the knowledge or the employers have already had to match if the returns are not achieved at the end of the journey. However, employers are putting considerable pressure on themselves to revise the system. They come to you with this and must be able to demonstrate to what extent this is a problem in the future or formed in the past. I am surprised that you do not have any information on the extent to which employers have already had to fit. Secondly, the market economy return. We have not been able to have that discussion at the moment: you have not answered my question. It is logical that if an insurer were to offer but a market-based return, there would be a comparison with the ten-year return on government bonds, few employees would be willing to give up part of their wages on a monthly basis. If they know that within 40 years they will receive an amount of a market-based return based, for example, on a 10-year state bond, which employee would want to build up a supplementary pension? Then that pillar will fall in for a big piece. Finally, Minister, I think there is a link between government tax subsidies and the release of the guarantee of return. If we drop the return guarantee of 3.25 % or 3.75 %, there is a risk that the disappointing stock market results will barely yield. However, there has been fiscal support in building up social contributions and supplementary pensions, but if the stock exchange fails, it is reduced to a very low return. Then where did the federal government's support go? It's gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u42	Today, the stock market yields 10%. That's not the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u43	No, but it's for a big piece about investment products, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u44	These are essentially bonds, up to 80% for insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u45	The stock market is now very high, but what will be the situation in 30 or 40 years? You're giving tax support. Isn't that what you need to be sure of?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u46	Insurance companies invest very little in the stock market. Pensions in the second pillar are invested in bonds and not in shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u47	Yes, but if the return is disappointing, what can be done, then the revenue from the tax support you have given will be low or minimal. Then where did your tax support go? There's a clear link. If the 3.25 and 3.75 % are retained, then we know where the tax aid is going. If that guarantee of return is given, then we know it much less.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u48	We're not gonna give up everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-11-54-commissie-ic113x.u49	Minister, I thank you for the elements of the answer and the few considerations that have been put forward, in particular on the complexity of the topic. I'll totally join you on this. Questions must be asked, sub-questions must be asked, and the subject must be given considerable thought, particularly with the social partners. I hear you're more than in favour of maintaining a guaranteed return. It is an element which I believe is fundamental to this second pillar which is being debated. There is a debate about the pillar to be promoted, the first or the second. I understand that your theory is that measures taken in the first pillar are more easily acceptable and manageable as the second pillar will be strong tomorrow. He's got to be strong tomorrow. I think it's an element to have in mind. If the first pillar is weakened and the second pillar is also weakened, pensions and pensioners will be weakened. We must do everything against this orientation, which I fear in view of what I hear at different levels. Finally, I understand that the Kern meeting is an information meeting of a state of play and no decision at this stage.
