ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the Paris attacks, we have been living in an exceptional situation, not only in terms of security, of course, but also at social, economic, cultural and school level. Our country is being called into question. But for the people who live in this country, it is also fear that very often governs their daily lives. In the face of the challenges of this exceptional situation, we must keep our composure and serenity. Keeping cool is first of all not giving in to provocations. Provocations of individuals, provocations of parties that sow hatred, who designate culprits, who communitate, in short, who seek to break the strength of national union. I oppose them with the motto of our country: "Union is strength". Those who seek to divide us are the weak links in the fight against terrorism. Prime Minister, my first question is whether you share this conviction. Second, keeping cool is to avoid creating pitfalls for operational services. We want to thank them all for the extraordinary work they are doing. Having said that, was there any faults, errors, lightness, faults in our services, especially before 13 November? All of this we will have to know. Not, as I say right away, to try to point a finger at someone in charge, but above all to see if we can't improve our counter-terrorism machinery. We decided yesterday in the follow-up committee of the P and R Committees to do this work, and I thank all the members because this decision was taken unanimously. Thirdly, keeping cool — and it's more complicated — also means preventing psychosis. Perhaps I would like to give one or the other example. The first is the schools. The official communiqués of the Crisis Centre, on several occasions, specified the sites that were the subject of threats. They talked about shopping galleries, public transport and major events. It is also an opportunity to indicate that they have never mentioned schools. However, when the need to mobilize full police protection capacity was stressed, it was recommended that schools should be closed so that officers working nearby should be assigned to the protection of sensitive areas. You know that even better than I do, but ask any citizen, especially parents and their children: they have the impression that terrorists are especially targeting schools. There was even talk of building safe rooms in each of them. Of course, schools must be protected, but have we not developed a psychosis that could be harmful to our country and its regions? Another example is the spread of statements by some members of your government. Mr Reynders claimed that ten armed jihadists were travelling the streets of Brussels. Ms. De Block and Mr. Jambon referred to the dangers faced by the rescue services. I have the impression that these words have not been framed either by you or by the National Security Council or by the Crisis Centre. Prime Minister, isn't it time to install a device to avoid this psychosis? Indeed, such statements increase fear. Remember that it is a contagious and dangerous disease. Maintaining composure also means providing the necessary means for the protection of citizens. You did it by increasing them to monitor sensitive places. I would like to stress to you the need to take the necessary orders, which the Brussels Region is asking for in particular. In this way, the Commission requests an order that the video surveillance platform be given access to public transport cameras. We're waiting for him. I urge you to do so: that all means be taken! Combating psychosis also means better informing citizens about the situation. Take the example of France! Thus, the prosecutor of the Republic near the Paris High Court, Mr. François Molins, regularly reports on the progress of the investigation. We cannot say the same! A lot of questions have been asked as a result of the last major wave of searches. Isn't it time to structure communication and information? A certain degree of transparency would be sound - one cannot be transparent for everything - in order to enable citizens to understand what is happening. With regard to security, level 4 in our country is very rare and underlies a serious threat of imminent attack. It was said that there had been two precedents: the horrific attack on the Jewish Museum and the ban on the Grand Place fireworks in 2007. In this case, the threat is obviously serious. Who can question her? It is serious for Belgium as a whole and, in particular, for some large cities. OCAM has decided that it is also imminent, that is, we have accurate and consistent information that the threat can be carried out in extremely short time frames. This has led to a real lockdown of a region, which is rare all over the world. I am convinced that if the OCAM has decided, it is right, but the more time and the more questions. You decided to convene the National Security Council next Monday. Can we not ask you to convene it before that date, either to hear the OCAM maintain the threat at level 4 and we will accept it, or to consider whether new elements should not be considered. Of course, the threat will in any case remain extremely serious, and strong measures will need to be taken to respond to this threat. However, Mr.President, Prime Minister, what we are playing for now is the future of a region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, let me begin by congratulating all the law enforcement officials who have worked hard in recent days: all the work that has been done, overtime, stress, and the search for those culprits that must continue. You can obviously count on our support in the implementation of all means to find those responsible for these attacks in Paris. This is a priority for all of us. This is a priority for our law enforcement agencies. I wanted to take this opportunity not only to wish them a great deal of courage for the coming weeks but also to wish the Belgian people a great deal of courage, whatever their origin, because they live today in fear and also in the hope of finding the measures that will make it possible to reassure and give a real security framework to the population. In this regard, it seems to me important to have direct communication that reassures people, a communication that also makes it possible to be clear about the dangers present today. It is this lack of clarity that I would like to stress. On the one hand, our Foreign Minister tells us that we would be looking for ten jihadists here in our society. On the other hand, on Sunday evening, we are faced with the fait accompli; the level of threat is maintained at 4 for a week without any explanation. It is to be believed that the Belgian population will have to connect to the American channels in order to be aware of the information. Ministers also say that schools are not targeted. At the same time, there is a need to be able to close schools. Gradually, this communication becomes itself a vector of fear. This adds fear to fear. We must be able to find solutions in the coming weeks so that the communication is much clearer on the causes, the fundamental reasons that have raised the level of threat to four for the capital, so as to block the whole of its social and economic life today completely. Another important point is that, at this difficult time, our basic rights must still apply, the right to argue, the right to our social fabric. What happened to me is this. As you know, the climate coalition wanted to organise a demonstration in Paris in the framework of the COP21 climate summit, a summit on which a great deal depends. Logically, it was decided in Paris that that demonstration could not take place. As a second solution, the climate coalition wanted to organise that demonstration in Brussels, but then threat level 4 was proclaimed in Brussels and that was not possible either. The climate coalition then decided to make a statement in Ostend. Yesterday, however, it was no longer possible to do so. Mr Prime Minister, I think that is a step too far. At a time when terrorists want to increase fear in our society and make democratic life impossible, we must send a signal. We must give the signal that we can still argue in Belgium today. It is important that we give the signal that today, in Belgium, we are not afraid of these terrorists, that today, in Belgium, it is still possible to demonstrate, to bring about the democratic lung of our society. We must not be surrounded by fear, so that we can no longer be able to manifest. This practical impossibility today to demonstrate, even in Ostend – I could still understand that this is not possible in Brussels – against the measures that will not be taken at this COP21 goes too far, Prime Minister. From this House we must give the signal that it is still possible to manifest in our country, that fear and psychosis will not prevent us from expressing our ideas strongly. With regard to the cause of terrorism and how to combat it, we need to focus more on the methods that will affect these terrorist networks in a particular way. All the measures that we will take in the coming weeks, through the Terrorism Committee that will be set up today, which will affect the entire population, will not be effective. What has emerged today in the first failures of our security services? It is that they had too much information, that the people involved in the events were already registered but that there are not enough staff to sort the information. As the specialists in the fight against terrorism in France say, we have too much information, we must target it, sort it out and then take the appropriate measures. With the measures that will be taken, we must be able to guarantee oxygen for our democratic life and the implementation of all the measures necessary to target the heart of the terrorist networks present in our territory, in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u4	Mr President, allow me first of all to look at you and, on behalf of my group, to express the satisfaction that we in Parliament will have succeeded in setting up a temporary committee after the present plenary session. Prime Minister, it is crucial that, at a time when many are calling for extreme measures, we discuss here in the heart of democracy measures that you have proposed and with which my group also largely agrees. We will also discuss other measures and matters that live in other groups. It is also crucial that we use the current terrible momentum of terror to demonstrate that checks and balances are always necessary, as well as a balance of fundamental rights, reconciling the right to security with the right to privacy that is so necessary. That's not an easy exercise. If we go among the people today, I repeat that there is a great demand for very far-reaching measures. Democracy must always protect itself from the fact that we are not doing what terrorists ultimately aim to do. The fact that there is fear in our society today is what they want. The fact that our democracy would take measures that would not be able to cope with the democratic rule of law is what terrorists want. We must therefore not play into their hands in this respect. We must make sure that we react wisely and adequately, but never throw away the democratic child with the bath water. That's my first observation. Mr President, it is important that we have agreed by a broad majority to the setting up of the committee. We must be effective in checking whether something has gone wrong. To this end, there is our Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on Police and Intelligence, which we commissioned yesterday to draw up a report. That report must come to us as soon as possible. Secondly, Prime Minister, I am looking at you, but also at the Foreign Minister. I do not accept that we are being fingered today. In temporary non-suspectos our country was ready to develop an architecture of police and security, which at that time was not equal in Europe. I would like to make a small reservation: perhaps we have not sufficiently financed this architecture in recent years. However, today's architecture is still topical. It assumes the necessary exchange of information. In the law we have registered that every police and intelligence service is obliged, under penalty of sanctions, to circulate information. I firmly believe in that system in our country. This system should also be applied within the EU today. We are perhaps being fingered today by countries, and I shall not accuse anyone who, of course, has often failed to circulate the necessary information. Belgium can present an excellent report in this area. When it comes to feeding Europol, we belong to the summit of Europe to bring information that we have at our disposal to the European services, where it belongs. If we are criticized today, we in Parliament must send a strong signal that we are prepared to talk about everything. In the coming days and weeks, we must at least ensure that those who want to besmirch our image internationally receive a strong response. In other words, we must show great openness in what we do and even greater openness in what we want to strengthen. I have a third point, the functioning of the OCAD and the crisis centre. When it comes to the fight against crime and certainly the fight against terrorism, when it comes to judicial investigations, popular wisdom should speak is silver, silence is gold, should apply. Those who give the best of themselves on the ground today, day and night, to do what we expect of them, namely to track down offenders, to allow judicial investigations to succeed, should not be obstructed in their work. We have chosen a system such as the OCAD, the experts, to capture the risk threat in a non-politicized way. If it says OCAD level 3, then so be it. If it says OCAD level 4, then so be it. We are putting a security dispositive face to face, which must be based on our crisis centre. Prime Minister, I respect the state reform, but what is being decreed at that time by the crisis centre must apply everywhere in our country: to the federal government, to the regional authorities and to our mayors. It is certainly not the time for one minister to point the finger at another, it is difficult enough as it is. If we want to avoid that risk, my advice would be to get the experts to communicate. If the experts decide that the threat level is 4, then I expect a crisis centre to take action against it and the political government to follow it. It is therefore not up to politics today, Prime Minister, to tell the police where to stand. It is up to politics to ensure that there is enough police in our country. It is up to the politicians to take policies to strengthen police forces if necessary. However, ministers are not operational people on the ground. I would advise you to strictly respect those divorces in the next few days and weeks. That is the logic for which our country has chosen. Otherwise, we look forward to the committee in which we will work hard to provide an answer to what the citizens are asking, especially safety and rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the drama in Paris is already a week behind us. It's been a week of panic and chaos, including on the premises. It was also a week of revelations of all kinds. Meanwhile, Brussels appears to be the hub of Muslim terrorism and not only of this, but also of many previous attacks in Europe. Several terrorists have infiltrated Europe as asylum seekers. New attacks, on our own territory this time, were foiled. In the end, there is a debate here today on the modus operandi, the measures and level 4. Until far abroad, Belgium is portrayed as a failed state. Brussels, the capital of Europe, is called the jihad capital of Europe in the foreign press. Yesterday, in The New York Times, underneath the picture of Obama and Hollande Belgian dysfunction, to deadly effect. Belgian chaos, resulting in lethal effect. It reads the story of a list of 80 jihadis, including the two murderous terrorist brothers, known to the mayor, who was given by the federal police, but nothing happened to them. The mayor of Molenbeek said: "What was I supposed to do about them? It's not my job to track possible terrorists. "She's supplementing: "That's the responsibility of the federal police." It is not surprising that today we are the rise of the world, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. On the contrary, this is the result of the lax immigration, refugee and justice policies that you, Mr Dewael, conducted ten years ago as Minister of the Interior. For years we have rolled out the red carpet for more and more Islamic foreigners and asylum seekers. We have Salafism, the jihad movement, the IS terrorists, who were said to be carnival lunatics when we warned of the boys of Sharia4Belgium as a Trojan horse, along with hundreds of thousands of Muslim immigrants. Am I saying that every Muslim is a terrorist? No, I'm not saying that, but I note that every terrorist is a Muslim who invokes the Koran to justify his deadly acts of terror. Indeed, whoever sows the Qur'an will reap the Jihad, because the Jihad is an inherent part of the Qur'an. That's not a fabrication, it's a fact. I hear we're at war with terrorism. No, we are at war with radical Islam, or rather, Islam is at war with the free West. That dates from not yesterday, but from 1 400 years ago, when Muhammad received a fax from Allah and put his Koran on paper. That holy war is indeed called the jihad. As long as we continue to bury our heads in the sand for this uncomfortable truth, it will continue to be bloodshed. Combating terrorism is a matter, the ideology behind it tackles something completely different. Terrorism is the modus operandi, the jihad is the strategy and Islam is the ideology. The Koran is a licence to kill, a military manual to conquer the free world. The so-called radical Islam is the chick in the egg of so-called moderate Islam. There are many moderate Muslims, but there is no moderate, enlightened Islam. Ten to fifteen percent, that is a fact worldwide, are salafists and support the use of violence as a legitimate means to strengthen their religious beliefs. It is that community in Brussels, Antwerp, Paris, London and Amsterdam that ultimately supports the IS-jihadi pavilions, serves as back-up and provides shelter. Those IS-jihadis, also in Molenbeek, feel like a fish in the water within that community. How long will these salafistic mosques stay open, Minister? How long will we tolerate radical preachers on the territory of our country? Today I read in the media that an imam who preaches in the dome mosque in Borgerhout in Antwerp, by God a recognized and government-funded mosque, has left for Syria to fight on the side of IS. Prime Minister, with terror level 4, the shops and restaurants closed, but the borders remained open. My plea is to close those boundaries now. After Charlie Hebdo, 40 000 new refugees have arrived, including those who committed the attacks in Paris. Mr President, I will conclude. Maybe Sunday is an attack. Maybe, we don't know about it, but we know that ten new ones will be planned and committed for each foiled attack. For every dead jihadist there are ten others on it. Today we're doing symptom control. We prune here and there a branch of the tree but the roots....................................................................................................................... In the meantime, we have kept quiet for enough minutes, laid down wreaths and organized silent wakes. It's time to act, hit back and hit back hard. I therefore ask you to withdraw the recognition and subsidy of Islam. Remove Salafists and jihadists from their nationality and deport them to the Islamic State. Finally, close the radical mosques. Even more than that, finally close our borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u6	Prime Minister, there are heavily armed soldiers in the streets of Brussels. Schools and metro were closed, and football matches and concerts are cancelled due to threat level 4. You have explained what that means: the threat is very close and we must take serious account of attacks such as those of Paris in our country. At a time like this, it's normal for people to have a lot of questions and be anxious. The best way to remove that fear is to remove the threat. I appreciate our security people on the premises giving the best of themselves every day. As long as the threat is not removed, however, it is important in these confusing times that fear is not stirred up any more. However, it is just what your ministers are doing today, Prime Minister. Communication to the people does not bring clarity, but confusion. Let me give you five examples. First of all, the schools. They were closed on Mondays and Tuesdays. Yesterday, they opened up again, while the threat level hasn't changed. At the same time, I hear ministers saying that the schools were not a target of the terrorists. People are right to wonder why the schools had to close down. Secondly, the metro stations. On Sunday morning, Ministers None indicated on TV that they would probably open again on Monday. That same night, you announced that they would stay closed. People rightly wonder whether the Minister was wrong in the morning or whether something had really changed. Thirdly, emergency services. Yesterday, the newspapers reported that ministers Jambon and De Block instructed the fire department, ambulances and hospitals to ensure that no terrorists would infiltrate them. On the same day, the same ministers communicated that the emergency services were not endorsed by the terrorists. People are right to question whether or not the services are endorsed. Fourthly, you gave the message that the government cannot say anything about the ongoing investigation. I understand that, but I heard Minister Jambon say that the high threat does not depend solely on Salah Abdeslam. I heard Minister Reynders on American TV saying that there are even ten jihadists out there with heavy weapons and explosives. People are rightly wondering what is actually going on. Fifth, yesterday in the newspaper we read that the actions of Sunday would have led to an attack being foiled. Mr Jambon did not want to respond to Belga, but at the same time we heard him confirm that on the radio. People are right to wonder why the minister can confirm that and not the court. Prime Minister, I repeat: communication is not clear, communication is confusing. I have only one request to make to you: draw communication to you. In this way you will at least prevent contradictory messages from coming and fear from being stirred up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u7	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country is living hard days. Our people are worried. Our children are worried; they ask us questions. We must reassure them so that they have confidence in our institutions and in our politicians. Our population has limited its movements. There has never been such a level as to merit the presence of more than 1 000 military personnel in our streets or to cause a large part of the social and economic life in Brussels to be interrupted. At such a difficult time, our party immediately called for national unity. We must be able to come together seriously to address our responsibilities together. It's not "I'm not, it's the other" or "I'm not, it was before." These words have no place in the debate today. They don't deserve our attention. We all have to be on the bridge, because we all have responsibilities. First, in relation to the situation, we must come together in a coordinated, collective, inter-federal, intergovernmental leadership so that we can better articulate all the responses to the events we are facing, whether in terms of prevention, detection or punishment. Prime Minister, I call on you to rise up in this debate and to take steps to ensure that everyone is on the bridge and that all parties, both the opposition and the majority, are brought together and invited to participate in the collective effort. That's what happened in France. Secondly, our intelligence services have long sought additional resources and resources. They were only insufficiently heard. A fact of the day is particularly intriguing. What happened in Molenbeek, and in Brussels in general? We learned that the Brussels mayors, especially Mrs Schepmans here, had in early summer asked for lists of dangerous persons residing in their territory. They obtained these lists, including people who were returning from Syria and who were an imminent threat to our security. What happened with these lists? Your Minister of the Interior, who is busy cleaning Molenbeek, what has he done with this information? How has this information been processed? Who knew about it? How have deemed dangerous persons been able to move freely? They weren't below our radars. They were in our radars, contrary to what has long been said. They were in our radars and they could have disappeared into nature. How could this happen? On a list were the names of the Abdeslam brothers as well as the name of Abdelhamid Abaaoud. I would like to have information on the important resources that you have made available to combat terrorism. You were right, and I think it's important that we know quickly how to use these resources. Which minister will he have at his disposal what means? I interviewed the Minister of Defence yesterday, he told me not to be informed of the means he would have at his disposal. It is important that the Ministers of Justice, the Interior and Defence should be able to know quickly what means are available to them. As far as the level of the threat is concerned, our group does not question it. But we found that it took three days to move to level 3 of the threat after the Paris attacks, and then four days to move to level 4. Second, level 4 of the threat has been maintained, but protection arrangements have changed and schools have been reopened. Should we shut them down? Other colleagues have also asked this question. How do we ensure security across the country? Wallonia and Flanders are at level 3 of the threat and have seen their police services derailed. Prime Minister, these are important questions that we wanted to ask you, but once again you will find us at your side and alongside the government for all the measures that will effectively protect our freedom, our values and our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the terrorism of the Islamic State, we are still in the process of action. We have not yet fully entered the evaluation time. We are still in the time for action because the level of threat requires it. I assume that the government that has the responsibility to determine this level of threat, knowingly doing so on the database... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u9	The Government and the National Security Council confirm that it is within the competence of the National Security Council, after advice from the OCAM. The government confirms the level of threat established by the OCAM. I assume that the government does so with knowledge and for good reasons. In doing so, today I am not asking myself whether this level is justified or not. This is the sole responsibility of the competent authorities. On the other hand, I ask myself the question of communication. Indeed, it is probably time to have a stricter sharing of each other's missions in this area. Judicial action against terrorism is the sole responsibility of the judicial authorities. It is up to them alone to communicate the objectives they pursue in a timely and timely manner, at a time when they consider it appropriate. This does not belong to any other authority, government or any other level of authority. As a mayor, I was able to collect some elements. It should be borne in mind that no mayor of Brussels has provided any information whatsoever in connection with the investigations which may be under way in his territory. I would also like to commend the way in which they have ensured strict respect for the autonomy of the judicial authorities in the exercise of their tasks and powers. However, it must be noted that undesirable revelations have been made by either member of your government. This is how we find ourselves today faced with a paradox in that it is the opposition parties that show greater control in terms of communication on the subject than certain parties of the majority, and a fortiori some members of your government. Prime Minister, with regard to communication, I therefore ask you to determine the dividing line between the judicial authorities and the executive. This is the first objective that must be achieved if we are to be effective in this time when, as I have already said, we are still in time for action. This is my second observation. In my view, all the levels of power that need to be mobilized in risk prevention have ensured some coordination over the past few days. Here too, every time the National Security Council met – I would remind you that the Brussels Region was the first to be affected by Level 4 – both regional and communal authorities have mobilized to fully implement the measures decided by the government. It has sometimes been necessary to insist on obtaining certain resources, but each time local and regional officials have assumed their responsibilities in the exercise of their responsibilities. This is to be stressed, particularly with regard to those who, in your majority, once again believe that the organisation of powers in Brussels would be the cause of the rise of religious radicalism and the threat of terrorism in our region. This is very insulting when we see how effectively the regional and local authorities have responded to the government's requests to carry out the necessary preventive security measures. I would add that, faced with an unprecedented threat in our country's history, we will all learn to determine the methodology that should be followed more optimally. There is much to say about the lack of methodological elements to enable a number of measures to be implemented. I am thinking of some circulars, in particular the circular issued this year by the two Ministers of the Interior and Justice to manage the return of those who have been in Syria. I am thinking of the way in which those who have not gone to Syria but who are present on the territory of certain communes and who are suspected of being radicalised, for which little information comes to us. No methodology is given to the monitoring services. I am thinking of the relationship between the local authorities and the public prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor's office in Brussels and the federal prosecutor's office. On all these issues, when the time comes, methodologies will have to be evaluated. In any case, as far as my party is concerned, as long as we are waiting for action, you will not hear a discordant voice as to how to carry out the measures required for the safety of all. I expect the same to be true in your majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, over the past week we have seen the consequences of the threat of terrorism, not only for our security and intelligence services, to whom I pay tribute for difficult work in extremely difficult circumstances, but for our entire society. We have seen the impact of a general threat level 4 on our society, especially on the Brussels-Capital Region and on the daily lives of many Brusselsers and many Brussels visitors. The cameras of the whole world are aimed at our country and unfortunately they do not give a positive picture. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to those who are putting up a picture of our country or who are calling our country a failed state. They go astray. Yes, we have had attacks in our country, even recently in Brussels. Every hit and every victim is one too many. Fortunately, these attacks do not have the magnitude of the attacks in Paris, New York or other European capitals. We have guaranteed the safety of our people, our citizens and our fellow citizens; our institutions are working and our public services are working. We're not a failed state. Our security and intelligence services, in all independence, I repeat: decisions taken, decisions made and advice given in all independence. I regret that some fellow Members wish to politicise the independence of those people and the sincerity with which they have given opinions in difficult circumstances. That's not correct. The government took the measures on the basis of the opinions that were insisting and did what had to be done. Of course, we must remain vigilant. Of course, there is no 100% safety. We are dealing with crime, I repeat: crime without frontiers, without nationality, unpredictable and uncontrollable. Of course people are concerned; we must also understand this, but we must not feed on this concern. Cruise ships which no longer dock here, schoolchildren who are no longer allowed to wear fluodes, smaller activities in the periphery of our country that are being cancelled, which may indicate overreaction. Prime Minister, you have taken short-term measures. Other institutions have also done so. The P Committee and the I Committee began their examination and presented their initial results at the end of February. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not jump to conclusions before these reports are presented in this Chamber. We must, however, draw conclusions from the reports they have already submitted. One of the recent reports deals with the functioning of our police services in the Brussels-Capital Region, particularly in certain neighbourhoods where there is a divide between the police and the population. There is a lack of trust between the population and the police, which is so crucial for information gathering. I ask you and the Minister responsible to take concrete action on the basis of this report. I would also ask you to implement the 19 measures announced together as soon as possible so that they can have an effect on the ground as soon as possible. In addition to short-term measures, we also need long-term measures. You announced 19 of them. I suggest that we add 20 or more to that. We need to restore confidence. We don't just do that with communication. This requires not only an effort by the federal government, but by all the governments in our country. Restoring confidence is also what we are doing by understanding how young people, in a few weeks or months, become terrorists from citizens, sometimes with minor and less minor offences. Terrorists are criminals to me. Crime has nothing to do with faith. Crime has nothing to do with any sacred writing. Crime has to do with a fundamental lack of respect for all other people. How the hell is it possible for young people to join Islamic State in a few months' time when they can see on television what barbarism it gives rise to? Restoring confidence, Prime Minister, means first and foremost restoring trust between people, restoring trust between peoples. Of course, that happens with the help of police and justice, today more than ever. But that also happens with the help of parents, teachers, employers, imams, street corner workers, care providers. This is done through a chain approach where we will have to involve local communities. Counterradicalisation is needed. It must go beyond the fight against terrorism. Colleagues, a society is not possible without trust. Misconception is affecting the social fabric. My questions to you, Prime Minister, are therefore the following. What are the concrete results of the measures you have already adopted? What else will you do in the short term? And above all, what else will you do in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u11	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question has already been raised here. I noticed it on the train this morning, too. It's never been this quiet in my car. People have never looked at each other so suspiciously. People notice it in the store. It's noticed in the restaurant. People actually notice it everywhere. Can we say, then, that the threat of terror has taken hold of our country? I think so. Does that mean we have to panic? Does that mean that we need to create a panic like we are in danger of doing here? Absolutely not! I'd like to avoid that, too, most certainly. The fact that I don't know what the headlines will bring when I get up in the morning scares me a little, I don't deny that. By the way, it was no different this morning. Like most of the previous speakers, I agree with the importance of setting up the temporary committee on terrorism. It is a crucial step that we are all taking. Perhaps it is my youthful naivety, but do I believe that this threat of terror can bring the groups together in that committee in order to find solutions together? Absolutely! It's gonna be here soon. Then the committee will be set up. Next week, she'll meet for the first time. However, this does not mean that the legislative work is already done. The government and our relief and security services are double-folding to save what can be saved. Again, much remains to be done, not only in the medium or long term, but also in the short term. I am thinking of something very topical and that is what my question is about. Prime Minister, look at our prison system. We have already asked at the end of April what we will do with the returned foreign fighters who end up in our prisons. We want to create terror wings. The Minister of Justice has said that this will be possible by the end of the year in Ittre and Bruges. We must try to deradicalize these people or at least guide them. What's happening today? A Syrian warrior ends up in that prison, gets a television and possibly a Koran, but no guidance. From one day to the next he is released and can participate in society again. That seems very dangerous to me. We must also make a great effort to this end. A lot has been said. I do not want to repeat myself, because I am looking forward to your answers, Prime Minister, and to setting up the committee. A great statesman once said "It always seems impossible until it's done." I appeal to the 150 Members of Parliament to unite against this threat of terror. Let's try to make that impossible happen together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, at a time when your availability must be at all times in the operational phase in which we are in, it was nevertheless useful to be able to have you at the disposal of Parliament so that we could have this short but necessary exchange of information in order to receive a certain amount of information. It is also in a spirit of concord, Mr President, that we in the Conference of Presidents have decided to agree on an increase in the speaking time of parliamentarians, so that we can take the necessary time. I was talking about the spirit of concord. I think he's here. I believe that we were able, at your call, to agree in the Conference of Presidents to set up a temporary committee. This committee, which will be set up today, will allow us to analyse more quickly, on the issues of radicalism and terrorism, all the measures that you presented last week. These are strong measures that will enable us to act more effectively against radicalism and terrorism. This committee will analyse these texts. In addition to the projects, there are likely to be proposals. Mr President, this evening you will chair the establishment of this temporary committee, which will no doubt allow us to work more effectively in view of the current difficult situation. It is the responsibility of the Committee on the Interior, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to pursue their activities and to carry out other types of parliamentary duties. A spirit of harmony in parliament, a spirit of gathering, why? Because we have no choice! We have no choice: in the face of the magnitude of the threat, we must be brought together. I would nevertheless like to say to some – I am not aiming at you, Mrs Onkelinx – that this spirit of concord, of gathering must be more than a facade. It may be easy to hold the flag of the national gathering with one hand to send his first arrows. The time has not come; the time is at the meeting; the time is at the gathering. The moment is at the mobilisation of each and every one of us, beyond the political divides that can enliven us on a number of issues. In addition to the work that is being done and will be produced at the level of parliament, this spirit of gathering between the Executives has been observed. We were able to see, alongside the federal government, the Ministers-Presidents of the Communities and the Regions taking their share of responsibility. You will certainly tell us how this collaboration was organized. This is indeed useful information for the members of this Parliament. Beyond this spirit of gathering, of concord, as some have already said, it is necessary to act quickly and with cold blood. At this level, the demonstration was made. In addition, you have also ensured the necessary communication with the Belgians. So, after all the meetings of the National Security Council, you wanted to take the time to organize a press conference and deliver the facts to our fellow citizens. It is true that we have a duty of truth towards the Belgians, a duty that you have fulfilled. You have repeatedly indicated that there is a risk of a response in Brussels to attacks in Paris and that appropriate security measures must be taken to secure the Brussels Region in particular. You explained why it was decided to go up to the level of terrorist threat. You also indicated – it was necessary – that additional security measures had been taken. That being said, you could also remind us of the role of the OCAM. Indeed, many things have been said about him. The proposals of the Crisis Centre were discussed, with responsibilities at the operational level. To the extent possible, perhaps you could also provide us with information on the searches, on the investigation currently under way. What you can say to Parliament, you will say, what you cannot say, of course, will not be communicated. Beyond these considerations, we have seen, through the action of the government, the need for life to resume. Yes, the threat is serious, yes, we take the additional security measures, but life must start again. This is one of the objectives that guide the action of this government and the federated entities. In addition, I would like to hear you, Prime Minister, respond to certain criticisms about the quality of our services, which we must trust. Let us remind those who would have forgotten that they prevented the attack from leaving Verviers. We must therefore maintain our confidence in them. The government responded to the criticisms with the voice of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I would like to hear from you in turn. We can't turn the blame on ourselves indefinitely. At European level, it is the spirit of gathering, concord and partnership that must prevail. Depending on the contacts you have made with our European partners, you may have the opportunity to shed some light on the measures our country wishes to share internationally in the short, medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u13	Prime Minister, our country is experiencing difficult times. Everyone is aware of this, both here and outside of this assembly. We must face an unprecedented terrorist threat. It must be you and mobilize us, both in the short term and in the medium and long term. Mr President, environmentalists are pleased with the rapid response that the Conference of Presidents has been able to give to the establishment of the Committee on Terrorism. I welcome the words of our colleague who has expressed his hope, who is also ours, that we can work beyond the possible divisions between majority and opposition. We take note of that. We intend not to limit ourselves in this committee to the repressive aspects alone. Of course, the safety component is important. But we must also be able in this committee to work and tackle the root causes of the problem and the reconstruction of living together. Prime Minister, as much as we are satisfied with the rapid establishment of this commission, we are also wondering how communication has been orchestrated in recent days. How can families, how can citizens find themselves there when, on the one hand, we have a Prime Minister who announces to the Belgian press that we cannot say anything, what we can understand, about the operations under way, while, on the other hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in the foreign media that we are looking for ten heavily armed individuals whose target would be shopping centres and metros? Second, other ministers announced that the target was hospitals. In addition to this is the cacophony of rather community and regional communication on crèches and schools. How do you want families to be there? You justified Sunday the closure of the schools by the fact that we were at level 4 of the threat. But you did not explain clearly what reduction in the threat justified the reopening of schools two days later. For people, it is difficult to understand and, in any case, it is impossible for them to follow the logic of government communication. This communication is too disorganized. It is in itself a factor of anxiety. It adds fear unnecessarily, in a period that is already difficult enough like that. If we have a message, Prime Minister, if we have a wish today, it is for you to take matters into your own hands. Of course, the situation is and will remain complex. Operations are still under way, as you have pointed out. Risks will continue to exist. But it is precisely because this situation is complex that the population needs clear, coherent and coordinated communication, including with the Regions and the Communities. You were able to see this on Sunday evening: citizens and the media have a responsible role to play. When the authorities asked for silence on social networks, they "chacreally" respected this directive. Now, Prime Minister, they are asking you for an explanation. And they are entitled to receive it. Yes, what environmentalists are asking you today is an explanation, not about the ongoing investigations – we are aware that a report will be submitted to us and that we will be able to work on it in the ad hoc committee – but a clear, consistent and long-term explanation of how the government manages the situation, organizes its communication and justifies the decisions it has taken and the decisions that will be taken. Actually, I don't think you need a great communications expert! We need a Prime Minister who is above ego, above each other's political positions. We need a Prime Minister who is able to reassure, to restore serenity, but also to ensure that citizens, who want to mobilize not against something but for something, for the planet, for the climate, so that this planet remains viable, can also mobilize and express themselves in Belgium. Of course, terrorists are probably angry with us too, but we have to fight to keep democracy alive at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you all. These are indeed difficult times for our country. Everyone is aware of that. I have listened carefully and I note that the broad majority in the Chamber has the will to unite. That is important in these difficult and delicate times. For the sake of clarity, I will try to explain the situation as much as possible, in all transparency, even if, as has been said, a number of facts cannot be communicated today. In order to understand the situation properly, it is necessary to consider what the important steps have been in recent days. I would like to discuss with you the chronology of the facts that gave rise to the situation we are in today. On the night of Friday, 13 November, we see with horror, like the whole country, the tragedy that is taking place in Paris. Immediately, we gather the Crisis Centre all night and, in agreement with the Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I take a number of measures with immediate effect. We immediately decide on strengthened border controls with France, we immediately decide to mobilise means to protect French interests, we immediately decide to secure railway stations, airports and transport. Several concrete measures have been taken on the initiative of the government and the crisis centre. A meeting of the National Security Council will take place immediately on Saturday at 9 a.m. Measures will then be confirmed and strengthened. For example, information is provided immediately to the local areas to be particularly attentive to the events with many people. On the night of Friday to Saturday, we had little information. The investigation starts immediately but it will take several days for it to produce its first effects in France and Belgium. At that time, the OCAM maintains level 2 and it is only on Monday, on the basis of additional information, the results of the first elements of the investigation, that a general level 3 is decided. Immediately, the Security Council meets and we are taking further steps to strengthen police, security and military deployment on the ground. We also take the delicate and difficult decision to cancel the Tuesday football match Belgium-Spain. I note that a day later Germany makes the same decision for a match in Germany. Then it's Monday. We are monitoring the situation on a daily basis with the security services. We assess the situation on a daily basis as part of the arrangements made by OCAM. An important step is taken on Friday night. On Friday evening, we learn of the decision of the OCAM to raise the level of the threat to 4 for Brussels while keeping the rest of the country to 3. In the National Security Council we take note of the information provided by the OCAD and the various security services, according to whom there are precise indications of a possible attack in the same logic of Paris. So there is not a single word, no doubt in the expression of the government's communication. At the outset, I communicated after the decision of the OCAM, after the Security Council on Saturday morning, that our concern, based on the security analysis, was a risk of attack by several individuals, perhaps even – these are the words I used – in several places at the same time using weapons and explosives. It is the communication that has been systematically expressed by the various members of the government on the basis of the information available to us. Point on the line. There is no ambiguity about that. Level 4 requires enhanced measures that we take immediately on the basis of the proposals of the Crisis Centre. With several axes, we continue to significantly strengthen the resources on the ground. The services speak of a "saturation of the territory" to affirm an extremely strong presence. We continue to reduce public events bringing together many people as much as possible. We reduce them because we believe, on the one hand, that this ensures safety at level 4 and, on the other hand, it also frees up capacities to saturate the ground as much as possible and, on Saturdays, we consider with the Crisis Centre that special measures must be taken for public transport. We note that on the basis of the information we have, public transport could also be a delicate target. Therefore, in consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region, we decide to close the metro on Saturday. Those are the facts. On Sunday a new evaluation of the OCAD will follow. Once again, we have the confirmation of very serious indications, according to which a very short-term attack is possible in Brussels. And so, on Sundays, I remember very well the way things have happened: we were in a meeting of the National Security Council with the communities represented there, particularly the Brussels Region, and we see that a Minister of Education announces, by means of a communiqué, the closure of schools, while this discussion was taking place at this very moment in the National Security Council and that the Crisis Centre was making proposals in which we could consider leaving schools open provided that certain additional measures could be taken. Of course, time was needed to implement these additional measures. I therefore fully understand the questions raised. On Monday, a few days ago, a new evaluation of the OCAD based on a new element followed. Not only is the threat level 4 confirmed for Brussels, but we are also told by the OCAD that Level 4 could last a few days. At first, threat level 4 applies for a very short term, but on Monday we were told that it could take a few days. That is why we consider at that time, in full consultation with the federated entities, that it is necessary, in the context of maintaining level 4 but of a shared desire for a gradual return to normal life, to take steps to be able to open the metro again. Not the next day, because we were not operationally ready to meet the remarks and proposals of the Crisis Centre, but we took 24 extra hours to partially open the metro from Wednesday, and open the schools in the same way from Wednesday, taking fully into account the recommendations of the Crisis Centre regarding the police presence, including the vicinity of schools, and thus the ability to detach resources. It's as precise, as simple as that. Simple in any case in the run. It's not simple in the reaction we're supposed to have. Those are the facts. I would then like to respond to a few comments, some of which have surprised me. Some of the Members present here have a lot of experience. Well, I am very surprised to hear this afternoon that some speakers do not yet know that the OCAD alone and independently takes the decisions to determine the level of threat. This means that the OCAD, an independent body without any political interference, takes a decision on the basis of information from the other security services, which are called the support services of the OCAD, such as our civil and military security services, the federal police or the police. It's the OCAD that makes the analysis. Another point is the crisis centre. What role does the crisis centre play? Now, the crisis centre is putting forward proposals for the government and the National Security Council, with concrete measures. The National Security Council is responsible for coordinating and confirming these concrete measures. That is a very important point. I'll try to be a very pedagogue to explain things. OCAM defines a threat level on a scale of 1 to 4. But what matters is not only the number, but also the reasons why the threat is assessed at a particular level. The motivations of the OCAM are presented to the National Security Council, the Crisis Centre and the Crisis Centre adapts these measures according to the reasons why Level 4 is decided or confirmed. So, a level four three days ago may not take exactly the same operational decisions according to the Crisis Centre as a level four today, tomorrow or the day after. Indeed, the analysis, the information sometimes changes from hour to hour, sometimes from half a day to half a day. That is what we have been confronted with. I hope that with this speech I speak clearly, that I am pedagogic enough and that this information is clear enough so that you can see what we have been trying to do in recent days in order to be practical and active. I am also learning a few political lessons from this delicate and difficult situation. I have no doubt and I am convinced that the security services, the government, the crisis centre and the National Security Council have done the maximum in recent days on the basis of the information available to ensure security. Everyone knows that there is unfortunately no zero risk, but we have done the maximum. It is very crucial to always find a balance in order not to create fear. That's what we're trying to do. However, let me give you an example: after the OCAD decided on Saturday to raise the threat level to level 4, the National Security Council took a few concrete decisions. However, the National Security Council did not decide to close the shops; that was decided at Brussels level. This shows that coordination between the levels of power is very important in defining the right level of response. Ik kom nu tot of communication. I've heard a lot of questions about that. I will try to give a clear answer to that question. There's no doubt about the communication. Things are very clear. After every meeting of the National Security Council and every time it was important, we clearly communicated. Only I have spoken and only I have answered the questions. Afterwards, in the course of the day, it was the responsibility of ministers to defend communication through television and through official channels. There is no doubt about that and there is no misunderstanding in that regard. Each of the ministers, with his words and his vocabulary, explained what I said, what the nature of the threat was, what the situation was and what the measures we were taking. That's how we organized things. That brings me to my second point. The Crisis Centre communicates more operationally. We launched number 1771. This is a provisional number to provide more operational advice. For example: follow the official channels of information, do not relay rumors, be cooperative when there are controls so that the queues do not create difficulties or dangers. There was also information about the subway and schools. It was the role of the criscentrum. And the parquet, of course. Fortunately, in our rule of law, it is not the government that leads the investigations, that is the role of the federal prosecutor. And the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has communicated several times. It is said that in Paris, there was a lot of communication from the public prosecutor's office and not so much in Belgium. Why? There is a huge difference: in Paris they have had a tragic attack. We are in a situation where investigations are under way, where we are trying to do everything possible to prevent attacks being committed here. This is not exactly the same situation! In Paris, there are ongoing investigations to try to elucidate what has happened, but we are in a situation where the threat is in front of us! When the threat is before us, elements of investigation must remain confidential to allow the investigation to progress and to allow us to reduce or stop this threat, which is the objective. This is a point that I ask you to take into account, and that is why, at no time, neither I nor any colleague have expressed information about investigations that would not have been first communicated by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. This is the line we have held and we have not changed it. I've heard some people say that communication is a source of anxiety. I'm sorry! What is causing anxiety is 130 dead, 130 murdered, 350 wounded! It is the terrorists who throw anxiety, not the government, not communication! I agree with a few Members in this Chamber who have rightly said that there were two moments. There is a very short-term action. Unfortunately, that is today's reality. We must also look at the short and medium term. Last week, in this assembly, I proposed setting up a special committee. I am very pleased that the decision to set up this special committee has been taken in recent days. This is important for the future. It is the choice of the majority and the government to offer the opportunity to engage in an open dialogue across majority and opposition. This committee must be a democratic area in which we have the opportunity to define a legal strategy. The possibility for the opposition and the majority to talk to each other, to find – Mr Dewael, you are right – this balance between the right to security, fundamental rights, respect for privacy, try not to fall into the trap of emotion, choose the path of efficiency. In the medium and long term, this is the path we must follow. Finally, I simply conclude, and I take this opportunity and this moment in this House to join in the thanks that have been expressed by members of the government and parliament to our security forces. In the past, they have often demonstrated their ability to act, sometimes their ability to prevent attacks. I would like to repeat here that over 160 convictions have been passed by the judicial authorities in recent months. I would also like to recall that we have avoided a tragedy in Verviers. Before concluding, I also want to address the people through you. I would like to address my final words to the people. We know that the situation is not easy, we know that the situation can create a form of fear. I want to make it clear that we want to do everything we can to get back to normal life as soon as possible. That is our intention, with the security services and the government. I have no doubt that this also applies to Parliament. That is our intention, that is fundamental. I conclude by telling you that we have tried to act with a lot of reactivity. We acted immediately, without procrastination, without waiting. We have demonstrated our ability to act with the necessary calm and calm, and we will continue to act with calm, calm and determination. It is our values that we love that are at stake: democracy, fundamental freedoms, security. As I have already said here, we will not choose between freedom and security. We are determined and will continue to move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Terrorism Committee is indeed an excellent initiative. She's gonna get together right away, work hard. I really hope for a national consensus on the basis of the proposals you put forward last week, but also on the basis of complementary proposals from both the majority and the opposition. My group is fully aware of the difficulty faced by the competent authorities. Your work in particular is difficult and sensitive. Of course, the threat must be taken seriously. We cannot put the population at risk. We all have the right to live here, free and safe. It's obvious. But at the same time, we cannot turn our country into a panic room. Our democracy, our services, and we ourselves are worth better than that. That's why I insist that we improve the information. I know that the judicial authorities do not have to disclose elements of investigation that could undermine the outcome of this investigation. It's obvious. However, in Paris, information is provided on completed operations. Moreover, you know that, for the time being, while the threat is ubiquitous in France and Belgium, and several attacks are being thwarted, regular information is being provided to the population by the public prosecutor. Without jeopardizing the effectiveness of investigations, I believe that the federal prosecutor could provide more information on a more regular basis. As far as communication is concerned, I understand your desire to protect the members of your government, but perhaps without saying it publicly in this chamber, you will still have to beat your fists on the table so that everyone will stand, keep quiet, do not increase psychosis. Trust the Crisis Centre, the National Security Council to manage communication! Finally, I say and repeat that we must continue to reassess not the seriousness of the threat – it is clear that the threat is serious – but its imminence. You are absolutely right, it is the OCAM that does it and not the National Security Council. But what I was proposing is that the latter be able to receive OCAM on a regular basis to understand and re-evaluate measures related to the level of the threat. That being said, we will have this conversation another time, but this scale of 1 to 4 may not be the most appropriate and perhaps we should work otherwise. We can see that this scale causes difficult reactions, psychosis reactions. I'll end with a tribute, a little like you. A tribute to the victims, of course, but on the initiative of the President, we will all do it together next week. A tribute to the investigative, analytical, law and order services that are currently on the ground, that are on their teeth, that do not count their hours. We all want to tell them that we are at their side to deal with the current situation. A tribute also to the work of cooperation between the Federal, the Regions and the Communities. You have opened the doors of the National Security Council to the representatives of the Regions and Communities concerned. I believe that this is a good thing and that we will have to continue this cooperative work. Finally, a tribute to the people of this country, which, in its vast majority, has exemplary behaviour. We saw it with the help of the investigative services, with the cats on social networks. But also, by mastery: there is no overflow of hatred, there is no verbal overflow. It is a population that remains united, standing and I would really like to pay tribute to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u16	Prime Minister, I have heard your very concrete explanations about the communication. What is still unclear is why, from the same level of alert, you have made such different decisions at different levels of power. That is the problem. Clearly, in the Belgian institutional lasagna, some thought it was an increase in efficiency. Each level of lasagna will communicate in its own way in difficult times. It's not right. One day we have a level 4 with metro, the other one has a level 4 without metro, then a level 4 with school and a level 4 without school. There is no clarity in the current communication. On the other hand, there has been little discussion of proportionality. However, this is the question that we wanted to put in the debate: to weigh the pros and cons of each decision. I asked you about the constitutional right to be able to demonstrate in Belgium today. The right to assemble as a group, to touch one another, to be together, to demonstrate collectively for a cause which is dear to certain people, this right is no longer guaranteed in Belgium. All requests for demonstrations are rejected. Even yesterday, on the ULB campus, a simple request to open a stand to collect signatures for COP21 was refused for security reasons. This is a real problem, Prime Minister. We need to maintain democratic oxygen in our society, especially in difficult times like today. Finally, I hear well and will participate actively in the special committee on terrorism, which will be set up this afternoon. I think we need a debate. I have heard a number of colleagues talk about the necessary unity. You mustn't hide your face. This past year, we have had a lot of differences on the analysis of the causes of terrorism in the world, particularly with my party's analyses of the causes of terrorist problems in Western Europe. It is to be thought – and we will have the debates in the coming weeks – that we will also have differences of opinion on the remedies to be provided. From the start, we said that the first problem was geopolitical. Daesh's strength is his money, it's his weaponry, it's the area he controls! We made a clear proposal yesterday to the Prime Minister – I hope that it will be relayed – that is, to set up an audit to analyse whether one of Daesh's financing routes, i.e. the sale of its oil, did not go through Belgium as well. We will come with many other proposals to touch terrorism in its geopolitical heart, one that allows a terrorist organization like Daesh to maintain an area in Syria and Iraq today providing all the financial and military logistics to terrorists who return to Europe to cause so many deaths. If today we must have the debate in this Parliament on the causes, let us have the debate in the coming weeks on the remedies. I hope that this debate will enable us to fight against all those terrorists who are killing Europe today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u17	Prime Minister, it is not enough to imagine what you are going through these days and nights. Life with a level 4 terror threat is obviously a trial for the population and with your responsibility you are constantly the target of questions. If something happens and it would be noted afterwards that there was insufficient action, people will be ready to nail you to the cross. In the opposite case, there is a lively debate in which one wonders whether one is actually exaggerating. We must always be able to strike the right balance. That is why I said in my speech that we must fully respect the independence of services, and you have done well to reaffirm independence. Making a threat analysis is not a political arbitration; making a threat analysis results from all possible intelligence and police services and is adjusted and weighed by the OCAD. Secondly, determining the security dispositive of those who need to be drafted where is not a political issue; the crisis centre plays its full role there. I would just like to ask that if the crisis centre comes up with a package of measures, those measures can be implemented everywhere and apply everywhere, at the federal level, at the community level and at the local level. It cannot be that one says that for him level 4 is something other than for a fellow mayor, I do not think that can be done. That is something you must be very careful about. Mr President, we in this House must ensure that we move forward quickly with the committee and that measures which may seem unrealistic yesterday will be possible. I would like to give one more example, and I do not want to push things forward, but today Brussels is counting on the solidarity of the rest of the country, and we are doing so. We are here today in Brussels with policemen from all over the country. But should it not also be possible, as mentioned in the reports of the P Committee, that the political leaders in Brussels also take into account the consequences of this? If Brussels is counting on our solidarity today, I say from the rest of Flanders, but also Wallonia, that Brussels must finally take the political responsibility to adapt its police forces to reality. I shall then take up my speech very briefly from last week. A police zone can work more efficiently than six police zones. Do not let the momentum pass to put things in order there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this was yet another technical debate with the equally predictable technical answers. The problem is coordination, the problem is communication, the problem is information. Who shut down the schools? Who was the minister who finally gave the order to close the shops in Brussels? What about Level 4? Does that now depend on the OCAD, the National Security Council or the government? Or is it another authority that decides on this matter? Should Brussels become a single police zone or not? And so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. Of course, there will be a committee with a chairman. Here he is! He hasn't been appointed yet, but everyone knows he's going to be Koen Metsu. It calls for reconciliation and better guidance of Syrian fighters. In a few months' time, if the whole matter was covered up again through the committee, then everything will be resolved. However, the people, outside Parliament's glass, are asking a number of other questions. Whoever comes out may have heard those questions. The people are wondering, just like the rest of the world, as is shown by the world press, not our press, because it is, as we know, regime-like, how Molenbeek could become the jihad capital of Europe. The people are asking how the terrorists can enter our country as asylum seekers. The people are asking the question about the salafistic mosques in Brussels. There is even one just 300 metres from the European Parliament and it is sponsored by Saudi Arabia. Mr De Roover feels that this is not the case, by the way. The people ask how a convicted IS fighter, who comes back from Syria, can publish a book in which he glorifies terrorism. The people ask how it is possible that that person may sit at the Book Fair and take selfies between DDT of The Champions and the author of some cookbook. I haven't received that honor yet. I have written a book about the Islamization of Europe under the title Inch Allah!, but that book is refused at the Book Fair. It's all possible in this country! Those are the questions that the population is asking and to which no answers have been given today. I would like to say one more thing about what Mr Verherstraeten said. He said it's about crime and terrorism has nothing to do with religion or Islam. No, Mr Verherstraeten. ISIS wouldn't have anything to do with religion? Al Qaeda wouldn't have anything to do with religion? Boko Haram wouldn't have anything to do with religion? Hezbollah would have nothing to do with religion? The Muslim Brotherhood would have nothing to do with Muslims, Saudi Arabia would have nothing to do with Muslims? Sudan, Iran, you name it, wouldn't there have anything to do with Islam? If the eyes finally open in Parliament and at the politically correct elite in this country, we may solve the problem. But after what I have heard here today, I fear that we will have to face several more attacks before the eyes will finally be opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, we in the opposition have been very constructive over the last two weeks. At a time when the security of all of us is being compromised, we believe that political games do not matter, but that we must work together to ensure security. It's good to have a committee. We were asking for such a committee. Today it is being set up, and we will also be actively involved in it. We have already put forward a number of proposals in this area. Prime Minister, I understand that you are busy, but you say that you have clearly communicated each time after decisions have been taken. Today, too, you will come and tell us what the situation is, and you will describe chronologically exactly what happened. You will agree with me, Minister, that when the threat level is at 4 the citizens are entitled to clear language and clear information, if we want the citizens to remain serene, as they are doing at the moment. The problem is not so much your communication, Prime Minister, but communication by the various ministers, the next few days. I repeat my appeal, Prime Minister. Draw communication to you, so that fear and confusion do not become more stirred up and so that our citizens can hear clear language.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our party has, for a very long time, contributed to the fight against terrorism and radicalism in Belgium. Not later than at the beginning of this Parliament, we have still tabled texts. A lot of time has been lost because of the opposition/majority games, because our texts have not been taken into account. Finally, you have recently adopted a whole series of measures that have been on the table for parliamentarians for a long time. I propose that in the future this kind of quarrel and waste of time should be avoided and that this Committee on Terrorism should take all the relevant proposals together. We thus have a proposal that is ready to be discussed tomorrow to block the sites that apologies for terrorism. I hope and hear that our committee will be able to adopt this type of resolution quickly. This seems essential to me in relation to the threats and dangers that are at our doorstep. In addition, I have asked you about an extremely important piece of news. A few individuals are on lists that have been communicated to the mayors of the Brussels Region. The mayor of Molenbeek indicated that this was a matter dealt with by the federal, by the intelligence services, by the security services, by Mr Jambon, the same one who promised to clean Molenbeek. What did he do with these lists? How is it that some of the people who were on these lists managed to commit the atrocious attack in Paris? The French have the right to know. We have the right to know whether these people are, today, effectively under control, in radar screens and whether effective measures are finally taken to prevent them from committing further attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u21	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the division of powers in public safety and risk prevention is clear: some competences come directly to the government, especially when the threat is established in the National Security Council, and others go to the mayors. Where I am joining you is that no Community minister is competent to issue some administrative police measures. There have been inconvenient initiatives in this respect on one side of a Community. Not only have the 19 Brussels mayors, some of them in this assembly, fully implemented all the decisions taken by the government and the National Security Council, but they have sometimes supplemented them. I want to point out that it is the mayors who have decided to close the crèches for an obvious and necessary reason: you cannot explain to a family that the elderly of a sibling cannot attend school for safety reasons, but that the younger ones can be placed in crèches, whereas it is sometimes in the same premises or on the same sites as schools and crèches. The 19 mayors were therefore consistent; they acted in a coordinated manner, all parties combined. There was no difference between the measures taken by the said mayors, which met three times. Zone chiefs were called by the Crisis Centre. Thanks to their expertise and request, they were able to identify the staffing requirements for the reinforcements of the armed forces and the federal police. Mr Dewael, you say that today there are reinforcements coming from other police areas. Of course, since it was only for Brussels that the level 4 threat was decided. However, it is very often the case that Brussels police areas are sent in reinforcement to other parts of the country. One day we can put the various interventions in the balance and you will see on which side the latter will lean. However, today you will not be able to fail in any way either the mayors or the chiefs of the police zone with regard to the implementation of security measures for the protection of persons in Brussels. It's all to the honor of the government, but it's also to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u22	Mr President, if I may, I would like to invoke a very small personal fact. Through centuries of history, all forms of terrorism have always been based on ideologies and sometimes on religion. I refuse to accept that criminals use that information as a cover or an alibi. I refuse to make an amalgamation of refugee crisis, terrorism and religion of any origin. Mr Prime Minister, the word I have heard most in the current debate is cold-bloodedness. That's perfectly right. It is true that that word applies to the current government, but it also applies to all other governments. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also say that it all applies to us Members of this House? Let us also preserve the coolness. If we do not keep them, how can we reassure the people and, as has just been rightly requested here, as soon as possible, even in Brussels, take up normal daily life? Thus we and anyone with peace of mind can drink a pint. I'm doing that now and I hope the others can do it. Colleagues, may I make another appeal to you? In the next few weeks, information on the left and right may be fragmentary. Let us not jump to conclusions. Let us not draw premature conclusions from fragmentary information. Let the P Committee and the I Committee do their work in complete independence, as they have always done in the past with a great deal of expertise. Let us then draw lessons from their conclusions and recommendations. Colleagues, sooner or later the fugitive criminals will be caught. At that point, the problem will still not be solved. We will have to remain vigilant and, above all, we will have to have a resilient administration within the borders of the rule of law, which arms it against terrorism. Mr Prime Minister, I spoke very extensively about it last week and I referred to it just now. There can be no greater reason than the facts of last week and then the destructive report of the P Committee to reorganise the Brussels police force I expect from your government and the Minister of the Interior, in consultation with the mayors and the Brussels-Capital Government, initiatives and steps forward. That seems necessary to me. Above all, however, I expect all of us to invest in living together and restoring trust between people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u23	Prime Minister, I appreciate your attitude. You display a tone and an attitude of serenity on the one hand but absolute combat ability on the other. It is very easy to come here and say that the work this government is doing is not working. Such people would better try to get to a committee meeting and to work on the substance of the issues we are dealing with, the repressive measures that we are studying and are going to adopt today and which will bring us back to the right track. That this situation, as you yourself say, changes from day to day, even from hour to hour, is quite correct. We're all following the news forums to find out what's happening now. We must react appropriately to that, that is quite clear. You have given a number of examples of how you and your government are now responding from day to day, for which we congratulate you. I'll be back on that temporary terror commission one more time. We will continue to develop these 18 or 19 measures. We look at them, check them and pour them into legislative work. We will certainly try to enrich them beyond party boundaries. I've never gone into politics to always have to run into that njet, or on uh, it doesn't work, or uh, it can't. I hope this applies to all of you. We have to make sure it works, damn it. We must face up to this exceptional situation. As you put it beautifully, we must return to a normal life as soon as possible, a life that everyone deserves. For this, you will find a determined ally in our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for all the information you have kindly given us at Parliament level. Thank you also for reminding some of the responsibilities of each: the responsibility of the OCAM, the responsibility of the Crisis Centre, the responsibility of the Regions. It seemed useful to do so, and you did. Mrs. Kitir, you've come back to communication. The Prime Minister explained the channels of communication that have been put in place. I think this government knows very well how essential communication for the Belgians is in times like those we are going through. I urge the government to pursue this in the same way. For the most part, we will be able, Mrs.Onkelinx, to get to work quickly, so that the House and our Parliament will participate in this effort, which will give us, very simply, much more resources, much more tools than in the past to ensure our security in the face of radical risk and terrorist risk. If these measures are put in place, we will have more leverage in terms of surveillance, control and deprivation of liberty for combatants returning from Syria. We can give ourselves the legal means to better protect Belgians. We are living in an exceptional time. The responsibility you have to go through this period with your government is enormous. The Belgians are counting on you to continue, as you do, to work, to go through this period, to ensure their safety with the determination and composure that are yours and those of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u25	Prime Minister, the chronology you recalled is useful. It is clear, particularly about the Sunday meeting and about the first communications that came out before the end of the meeting. It is a little easy to exempt all your ministers, but I understand what you want to highlight on Sunday's communication. You say your ministers use their own words, but it's a little short, and everyone agrees. Sunday's communication, particularly about schools, has consequences and damage. My colleague Kristof Calvo told me today that a school in Wemmel had just decided to close because she felt that she did not yet have enough policemen present at her door. All this is related to cacophony. But I did note the chronology and the beginning of the problems. Mr Prime Minister, you are right to remind us that, of course, the primary anxiety is terrorism. But it should not be added and the problems you have identified in your chronology make it part of the complementary concern that comes from these communication problems. But today, you took the time to explain certain elements. You have practiced some form of pedagogy. You tried to justify your decisions. I can only encourage you as much as possible, depending on what can be said, to explain and take the time. This remains a difficult situation and you said it would probably remain so for some time to come. We all hope that this time will be as short as possible, but in this time that will remain troubled, communication is important. The full and complete functioning of our democracy, including the ability of people to mobilize, is also important. We cannot, because we are at level 4, prevent people from mobilizing to support causes that remain necessary, that remain just, that remain fundamental and that are not unrelated to terrorism. I will have the opportunity to come back to that earlier because there will be a climate debate around 5:00 p.m. with Minister Marghem. Prime Minister, there's still work to be done and we can only invite you to go through with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u26	Mr President, Minister, yesterday it was exactly a year ago that the first Forensic Psychiatric Centre in Ghent opened its doors to six interns. If we consider that the first internment law dates back to 1930, then the center for mentally ill offenders has been waiting for 84 years. Let us hope that this will put an end to a long series of convictions that led our country to the European Court of Human Rights. A year later, we can make an initial assessment. We can say that it is positive. The total content, with no less than 264 places, is now a fact. The consortium Sodexo, Parnassia Groep and FPD De Kijvelanden said a year ago that it wanted to run at full capacity within a year. They have kept their word and deserve to be praised for this handsome achievement. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, as far as the organisation is concerned, I asked you a question in committee a while ago about the evaluation of the FPC. You were unable to report at that time. I'll ask the question again. Has an evaluation been carried out? As you know, the FPC Antwerp will open at the beginning of next year. This evaluation report will undoubtedly make it possible to draw conclusions for the start-up and follow-up of this FPC. A second question concerns the legal framework. We know that there are many changes in 2016. A gap in that legislation concerns the follow-up. After the process in the FPC you may end up in a successor setting. If things are in danger of going wrong there and the interned has been released a little too quickly, but if he wants to go back to the FPC, he can't do so at the moment, with all the potentially damaging consequences of that. The work cannot be continued by the FPC and the goal of getting interned out of prison is beyond its purpose. I just wanted to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u27	The evaluation of the FPC in Ghent, which has been in operation for a year, is currently under way. We will take due account of the entry into force of the FPC in Antwerp, which is scheduled for the end of next year, for November-December 2016. At the moment, colleagues De Block, Jambon and I are working hard to increase the number of internment institutions. Under the Masterplan 3 for prisons, we are developing a specific masterplan for internment institutions. There will certainly be a big addition in Flanders and another in Wallonia. In addition, we are fully engaged in the development of a number of places for long stay, small establishments for people who cannot flow through and probably never be released from the internment. In Bierbeek there will be an institution for women. That announcement will follow soon. In Wallonia there is also an institution long stay. For interned people who pose a danger to their immediate environment and are incurable ill, we in Antwerp will free up a dozen places in the new institution. The new legislation is coming up in the third draft potpourri which is now before the Council of State. It is a partial repair, but on small points, of the law of 5 May 2014. It provides for the internment chambers which replace the committees for the protection of society. The appointments for this are in progress. The appointment and selection of social and psychological counsellors to assist professional magistrates are under way. The resources have been released for this purpose. We can have an exchange of views in the Justice Committee on the follow-up committee when we discuss the potpourri 3 bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u28	Minister, I know that you and the government have highlighted internment as a priority. Yesterday, following a year of FPC, we saw a reportage in the program Koppen. I was seized by a poignant testimony of a man who was sexually abused from his fifth to his twelfth. He got on the dork, ended up in prison at 18 and spent 16 years in prison. Last year he was finally interned in the FPC Gent. After 16 years, he finally gets the care he's entitled to. I therefore stress the importance of internment. It is important to provide shelter in a psychiatric care centre for all 900 interns who are still in prison by the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u29	Mr President, Minister, we have just had a wide-ranging debate on terrorism. However, there is a theme that is only touched side by side, but which is at the root of this problem and is very relevant, in particular Saudi Arabia's attitude. A number of speakers have pointed out that Saudi Arabia is a country where human rights are not respected, where decapitations took place last year, where people suffer corporal punishment because they are women, or gay, or other than what is accepted by the mainstream. For us Liberals, the free market is important, but we consider human rights and individual rights equally important. We are now seeing what Saudi Arabia does in its own country, how cross-pollination is done on a religious level when subsidising certain forms of Islam, such as wahabism and salafism, which then takes place in the Middle East, in Belgium, through mosques, in Western Europe, which radicalises people and leads to terrorism. Minister, on behalf of my group, do you condemn Saudi Arabia's attitude? Our group cannot accept this and we believe that a political statement is appropriate. A second theme is trade relations and relations in other areas. We have heard different opinions about this in recent days. Soon other speakers will also be asking questions about this. Our group does not want you to break up all relations with Saudi Arabia, because then the voice of our country cannot be heard. We do believe that you should maintain these ties, but it should be used to make a clear statement to Saudi Arabia, on behalf of our country and, preferably, not just with other European partners. Are you willing to do that? Are you prepared to draw Saudi Arabia's attention to its responsibility and its shortcomings in the field of human rights and international politics, in consultation with European fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u30	Mr President, Minister, security is the priority. Our group supports the government's anti-terrorist measures. That is why it is so important that our foreign policy does not run counter to internal efforts against terrorism. It is therefore high time that we took a critical look at the role of Saudi Arabia, at the role of Qatar. Saudi Arabia systematically violates human rights, for example by stoning and public executions. The blogger Raif Badawi was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment and a thousand canings just for expressing his opinion. In addition, Saudi Arabia also feeds on Muslim extremistism and the Muslim terror in the Middle East and thus increases instability. It also finances the radical mosques in our country. In this way, it tries to spread its poisonous message of hatred and religious extremism to our Muslims as well. Yet we are trading with Saudi Arabia, without really knowing exactly where that money is going. The mayor of Antwerp, who is not here again, apparently has no problem with that. We also export weapons from Belgium to Saudi Arabia. Total arms exports amount to EUR 2 billion. Every year we sell EUR 270 million of arms to that country. Some of these weapons, ladies and gentlemen, end up at IS, at al-Nusra, in the region. One day we are protesting against human rights violations, the other day we are closing expensive trade deals with Saudi Airways in Antwerp's restaurants. One day we place soldiers in front of our shops and schools, the other day we export arms to countries that support the very same Muslim terrorists, against whom we are so persistently trying to defend ourselves. That is untenable, Minister, and schizophrenic. I would ask you to thoroughly review our relations with Saudi Arabia. It is high time for a different policy. We have just received half the support of the Open Vld. However, there are plenty of experts who say that if we want to tackle Muslim terrorism thoroughly and fundamentally, we must also work on the causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u31	Minister, I have just looked at the FPS Foreign Affairs website to see how our diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia are described. That's why I went to diplomacy.belgium.be. I read the following about the Gulf States: Belgium has excellent relations with the Arab Gulf Cooperation Council countries, namely Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar. Excellent relationships! Des relations fortes et formidables! Minister, such double diplomacy cannot continue. One cannot, on the one hand, continue to say that one is against terrorism and, on the other hand, that everything is excellent when it comes to diplomatic relations and business. That is why my first question is whether you would like to review our relations with Saudi Arabia? Secondly, it is said that Saudi Arabia is the state, while the support comes from individuals. That is not true, however. Several studies clearly show that that State is providing direct support, perhaps not directly to Daesh, but to groups on the ground, such as Armée de l'l'Islam, the Army of Islam, le Front Islamicque and the fighters of Al aqsa. They are jihadist groups officially supported by Saudi Arabia. Minister, we must put an end to this dual diplomacy. We cannot say that we are fighting terrorism while continuing to do business with Saudi Arabia with billions. We cannot pretend to fight terrorism and, at the same time, welcome the King's visit to Saudi Arabia for the funeral of the local monarch. We cannot rely on the fight against terrorism and, at the same time, applaud on the banks of the N-VA 3.7 billion investments in the port of Antwerp. Persisting in this dual discourse prevents us from radically combating all forms of terrorism in the region. I therefore ask you the following questions. Mr President, first of all, what do you think of a boycott of Saudi Arabia? Secondly, how do you see the relations between Belgium and this country in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u32	Mr President, it is very simple: we will continue the dialogue with Saudi Arabia, as with other countries in the Gulf region. This is clear and clear on four points. Firstly, in the dialogue on international conflicts, for example between the European Union and many other partners, we ask Saudi Arabia to be part of the solution in Syria, Iraq and many other conflicts. It is useful to have Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and many other partners around the table, as for the moment in Vienna, to find a solution. It is therefore very useful to have such a dialogue. Secondly, it is also very useful for Belgium to have a dialogue with Saudi Arabia on human rights. We are in dialogue on the death penalty with Saudi Arabia and I personally had a dialogue on individual cases. This was the case, for example, for Raif Badawi and for a minor who has now been sentenced to death. Without such contacts, it is impossible to obtain anything. Our task is to have a dialogue on human rights, not only at European level but also directly. I contacted my colleague in Saudi Arabia about, for example, Raif Badawi. I've been in touch with his family, too. Thirdly, foreign trade. In this context, I am at the disposal of the competent authorities. Let me give you three examples. First, the Regions decide on the destination of the princely missions. It is therefore the External Trade Agency. It is up to the Regions to say that next year it will be Indonesia, while some time ago it was Saudi Arabia. That's a decision without interference from the federal government. We do not even have a councillor on the Agency's board of directors. Secondly, as regards investment in Belgium, I am prepared to contact the competent authorities. I have heard a lot about precise investments in a particular port. On the board of directors of that port, we have representatives of all possible democratic parties, including Green, PvdA and many others. As far as I am concerned, I am prepared to convey a message, but it is the task of the city of Antwerp, the port and the Flemish Region to say something or not. I have no authority in that regard. Thirdly, Mr Hedebouw, we are talking about the arms trade. I assume that we remember that a few years ago Parliament entrusted the Regions with the responsibility for export licences. They therefore make their decisions. We regularly give them – we did it again last spring – a full presentation of the human rights situation. From there, the said Regions make decisions on export licences. We're not going to change politics. Dialogue will continue on major international issues and human rights. As far as trade relations are concerned, I ask you – for grace – to show some consequence. For our part, we try to see the policies developed by the Regions, whether in terms of missions, investments or arms licences. A fourth point relates to mosques and their financing and imams. I repeat tirelessly that we are working on this issue in collaboration with foreign colleagues, but also with the relevant federal and community ministers. In my view, it is indeed necessary to ensure that the financing of places of worship is internal and not external. The formation of preachers and imams must also take place in our home. We must ensure that there are more and more imams from the European and Belgian Muslim community. But the organization in our territory of a formation of such preachers requires collaboration with several levels of power. This is a long-term task. Let me conclude by saying that we are not going to change our approach. We want a dialogue with Saudi Arabia on major international conflicts. In addition, I wish to be able to continue to talk generally or individually about certain human rights situations; I am thinking in particular of the death penalty. As far as foreign trade, investment, arms exports or organised missions are concerned, we want everyone's language to be the same as it is in this Assembly, in its Region or in its city.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but we are still missing a point. I understand that it is a lot more difficult for a foreign minister than for us, but our group condemns the violation of human rights in Saudi Arabia. We condemn Saudi Arabia's influence and funding propaganda in Western Europe and in the Middle East, propaganda that destabilises the entire Middle East and which in Western Europe leads to the radicalism and terrorism that we are seeing today. We understand that you want to maintain the dialogue. That is, of course, necessary, otherwise you cannot put anything on the table. In the case of the blogger, international pressure allowed the penalty to be taken from 1 000 lashes to 50 lashes. We want you to continue to deliver our message and use the dialogue to do so. As far as commercial transactions are concerned, I do not follow the other two colleagues. However, I agree that we must now look at every trade transaction and analyse precisely where everything ends up. Questions are rightly being asked about the ultimate destination of these weapons. But I read on the Flanders Investment and Trade website that the first raw material we export to Saudi Arabia is pharmaceuticals. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to stop doing that, are we? We are not going to set the counter at zero and not supply drugs to such countries anymore, are we? There are many other things we supply to Saudi Arabia. I agree with the other two fellow Members that we need to keep arms supplies and other transactions under review in order to see where they end up. We must send Saudi Arabia very clear signals that its domestic politics and its influence abroad are damaging to the conflict in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u34	Minister, I would like to ask you and the whole government a question: do you not realise that the world has changed after the attacks in Paris? I do not think we can stick our heads in the sand anymore. You are talking about the continuity of your policy, but what has been achieved by this policy? It takes three things. We must blackmail Saudi Arabia. No more guns! Sweden does. Germany does. Why couldn't Belgium do that? We must freeze the trade deals. Not all trade, Mr Lachaert. However, we are not sure whether or not the profits will reach IS or other Muslim terrorists. When it comes to draining the funding of mosques, I hope we will agree that we must stop radicalisation. Minister, I do not know if this is the case, but I would ask you not to be held back by your colleagues from the N-VA, who clearly do not want to touch the interests of the Saudi regime, the elite as it were. I remember 1991. Then the People's Union left the government because of the arms supplies to Saudi Arabia. The N-VA always talks about the power of change. I don't see them, that change. The only change I see is that the N-VA in 2015 continues to support arms deliveries to Saudi Arabia. That's the only change I see!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u35	Mr President, Minister, you are transferring responsibility to the Länder, so we are in Belgium, and it is never anyone's fault here. I would like to remind you that you yourself have made a lot of diplomatic trips to Saudi Arabia, even with great enthusiasm. In 2012 you said that we do good business there. Now you come here today to say that you are not enthusiastic yourself. However, the foreign affairs website contains the qualification "excellent'. This does not apply to other countries in the region. There is clearly excellent, which means politically that Saudi Arabia is qualified as an ally by our diplomacy. I think that is wrong, because Saudi Arabia is the cause of what is happening in the region. Saudi Arabia is not passively engaged there, but is actively engaged in its own regional policy and its own enlargement in the region. And that's one of the reasons Daesh can go so wide in the region today. Minister, I would suggest that our diplomacy, through boycott, clearly demonstrates that we do not agree with what Saudi Arabia is doing. Finally, you speak of course about the port of Antwerp. I would like to tell you that the N-VA in Antwerp proposes that, among other things, the PVDA should no longer be on the board of directors, and that the PVDA should be thrown out of the board of directors. We cannot continue with business as usual, we must see terrorism as a major battle and stop business for everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u36	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the initiatives you announced yesterday, which are aimed at traders, in particular those in the horeca sector, in the Brussels-Capital Region. I am pleased to highlight these last terms, as much as it is true that another capital has been hard hit and that, if it has been, it is also in one of those hearts of target, namely the Horeca. Ladies and gentlemen, I must not remind you that in the Brussels region, this sector is the first employer of unskilled labour. In addition, one out of every three young people under the age of 25 is employed. Finally, I want to say that he is one of the collateral victims of threats to us. While it is true that 12 measures were taken in the aftermath of the attacks on Charlie Hebdo and 18 after the attacks on Friday 13 November, also in Paris, these are ground measures that need to be completed. Minister, I have observed that you have fully understood the message of the horeca sector, which is suffering terribly for the time being. That is why I would like some clarification on the measures you are planning to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u37	Mr Pivin, as mentioned in the previous debate, priority is given to preserving the safety of our citizens and identifying the perpetrators of the acts that have been committed. Nevertheless, it is true that we must take into account the important indirect consequences of the current situation for several sectors. Obviously, the shops - and especially the Horeca, therefore the hotels and the cafekeepers - are concerned. In the Brussels-Capital Region, the introduction of level 4 and the fears of the population have led to a dramatic decrease in attendance at these establishments. Moreover, we are at a time of year which represents for traders a significant part of their revenues for the whole year, more than proportional to the period concerned. The idea is indeed to adapt a number of provisions to the situation. As far as I am concerned, there are three of them. The first allows the carry-over of contributions for one year in the fourth quarter of 2015. The aim is obviously to lighten the cash flow. This will be done easily, by simple written request "deferral of contributions from the last quarter of 2015 to December 15 of next year". The second provision is as follows: it is possible, according to the new law on social contributions, to adapt these payments. This is not a carry-over but a request for a change in social contributions for 2015 and a decrease in social contributions. The third possibility is to obtain a total or partial exemption from social security contributions, which I have asked by circular to the Commission, as in the case of social insurance funds, to reserve a rapid and simplified treatment of all these cases. This is in addition to the measure announced by my colleague Kris Peeters, which concerns economic unemployment for companies employing staff. The aim is to respond, as we have done in other crisis situations in a similar way, to the specific nature of the situation. I am prepared to study other measures if they are bought, depending on the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u38	Minister, thank you for that clarification. Before being places of gastronomy and relaxation, cafes, hotels and restaurants are places of sharing and meeting. It's part of our values to exchange, to share. I thank you for taking this into account and also taking into account the freedom of trade from the point of view of your competence. Thank you for taking responsibility. I expected no less, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u39	Minister, since the Paris attacks, the objective of the international community is to form the broadest possible coalition against Daesh to prepare also for post-Assad in Syria. President François Hollande embarked on a diplomatic marathon, difficult given the complexity of the situation, to set up such a coalition, whose common enemy is terrorism. The task is difficult. It has been even more so since the recent tensions between Turkey, a member of NATO, and Russia. On Tuesday, a Russian bomber fighter was shot down by an air-to-air missile fired from Turkey. These tensions are all dangers to unity and the search for a comprehensive solution, under the mandate of the United Nations, in what can be called the Syrian quagmire. I'll ask you a few questions. First, during the extraordinary NATO meeting, what position did our country stand for? What attitude did you take against your Turkish counterpart, but also against the Russian authorities? Secondly, have you had a little more precise information about the contradictory messages received from both Russia and Turkey about this air incident? What follow-up does NATO intend to give? What about Russia's ambiguous attitude towards the military strikes in Syria, which we know affect both the jihadists and the opposition to Bashar al-Assad? What about Turkey's ambiguous attitude towards the Islamic State? We know that certain borders are at least porous and that, from time to time, bombings are aimed at the Kurds. More broadly, what is the status of the project to establish an international coalition? Is it our objective to play an active role in the political process of establishing a broad coalition? Finally, can you take stock of the mission of our frigate Léopold I, who initially was purely defensive? Are we going to move on to a more offensive phase following statements by the French Minister Le Drian, who felt that we were moving towards this type of operation with the aim of eliminating Daesh? Mr President, I should like to point out that I have not created any controversy; I am in a constructive way!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u40	Mr Pirlot, since the beginning of Russian operations in Syria, Russia has sometimes violated Turkish airspace. This time, the Turks reacted strongly, perhaps too much! Following the extraordinary meeting of the Atlantic Council – Belgium is represented by a collaborator of the Minister of Foreign Affairs – convened at the request of Turkey, Secretary General Stoltenberg asked Turkey and Russia to calm down and called for de-escalation. He also called on both countries to intensify their bilateral contacts. As far as Belgium's position is concerned, I can confirm that my colleague, Mr Reynders, and I have always argued for a mechanism of cooperation to avoid such incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u41	Minister, thank you. Even if defending its airspace is legitimate, it does not allow Turkey to do anything. Moreover, being a member of NATO also requires a willingness to seek solutions rather than create tensions. I would remind you that my group continues to support France, the European Union and the international community as a whole in the fight against Daesh. We had the opportunity to discuss it in the Defence Committee. There is military action, because we cannot negotiate with the ministry of suicide bombers, but we also need diplomatic action not to make the same mistakes as the Americans in Iraq and Afghanistan. We also need development action, because we know very well that if a young person has no hope, it is the door open to radicalism. Mr President, this exercise was a first for me. I'm sure you remember this moving moment, even if it was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago it was discovered that car manufacturers Volkswagen, Seat, Skoda and Audi forged allowances via fraud software in order to sell more cars. In our country, about 400 000 cars would be driving around with shuffling software. These are, of course, unacceptable, deceptive practices that have an impact on our public health and also on our environment, through CO2 emissions. Public opinion has rightly been shocked by this and many car owners have now also complained. I'm assuming the federal government also owns and uses a lot of vehicles equipped with that shuffle software. That is what my question is about. The coalition agreement states that the federal government's fleet must be drastically greened in the coming years. The diesel gate shows that there is a need for a diverse fleet of vehicles. The diesel gate is also an opportunity to green our fleet and to purchase more electric and hybrid service vehicles. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. How many vehicles of the federal government are of the Volkswagen, Skoda, Seat or Audi brand? How many of those car wrecks are equipped with that shuffle software? How does the purchase or leasing of new vehicles take place in federal public services? Is it centrally driven to opt for hybrid and electric cars more often? Finally, is an action plan needed to encourage public administrations to opt for a greener fleet? What are the government's objectives for achieving concrete results in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u43	Mr Yüksel, between 2007 and 2014, 2 331 cars were purchased through the general FOR, the central purchasing service. Of these there are 189 of the Volkswagen or Skoda brand. Again, it is about the period between 2007 and 2014. The importer and our contractor, D.J.Ieteren, has detected 69 of these 189 vehicles that would use the software in question. At the moment, the manufacturer has not officially indicated how it will be dealt with. I can tell you that in the future vehicles and in the current contract, in which Döhleren plays a very important role, there is no question of fraud software. After all, the shuffle software was in car dynamometers with Euro5 standard. Today, the government no longer buys cars that do not comply with the Euro6 standard. We have therefore done all we can in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Minister, last summer, on the basis of a number of parliamentary questions, I mapped out the government's fleet. This shows that four of the seventeen excellences drive a hybrid car. No member of the government drives a CNG car or an electric car. I believe that the government, and certainly the ministers, should set an example and set a good example. It's said those cars are more expensive. I do not think that is an important argument. The FPS Mobility announced yesterday that six diesel cars will be replaced by hybrid cars. You just mentioned numbers. I believe that we can be more ambitious in this story. Mr President, I will conclude. The greening of our fleet must be an automatic reflex, with any purchase or leasing of new vehicles by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, in a number of newspapers, there was the story that you sent another letter, this time to Afghans and not to Iraqis, in which you told them not to come to Belgium. I would like to hear what that means in concrete terms. Does this mean a stop to recognition or are decisions still being taken in a number of cases? What does that mean for pre-care and for registration? I know that you have already made efforts to create places for asylum seekers. You have said quite clearly that we will ensure that no one has to sleep on the streets, but we now see Afghans sleeping on the streets. You announced in committee last week that a decision would be taken at government level on the distribution plan for asylum seekers. How's that going? This afternoon, I learned from the Red Cross that both pre-reception and traditional shelters are full. What do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u46	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, as far as the Afghans are concerned, this is the same as for the Iraqis. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless has set up a temporary decision-stop for the Afghan NBMV (unaccompanied minor foreigners), which are a large part of the Afghan asylum seekers who come here daily. Indeed, there are strong suspicions of certain filières, certain routes of smugglers of human beings, along which refugees come with a very stereotyped asylum story. I inform the Afghan community about this temporary decision-making stop and I tell them that not every Afghan here is automatically recognised as a refugee. The Commissioner-General does not recognise all Afghans or all Iraqis. I inform people that they cannot immediately let their family happen or do not immediately receive a very spacious shelter. Those are ideas that people smugglers spout on social media in a very perfide way. They say in their information network that we must come to Europe, that this is the eldorado. That is the reality. I think it's important to inform people correctly. You say the registration and pre-conception are full. We have opened 10 000 additional places in four months. For the crisis of 2010, for which other parties were responsible, the then government took four years. I would simply like to state at what rate the current government is working to offer the refugees bed, bath and bread. They don't get money, but they get bed, bath and bread. In addition, we will expand pre-care. An agreement has just been reached today on not 120 but 300 to 360 additional places, three additional plateaus in the World Trade Organisation, so that we can build from 1 000 places to 1 300 places in the pre-care facility. Will that effort solve everything? I don't know. However, we continue to monitor the situation every day. You claim that there are asylum seekers sleeping on the streets. That's not right. Candidate asylum seekers are sleeping on the streets that haven't been registered yet. Some of them don't have shelter. It's just about single men, but not about families with children. All families with children have a shelter, first in pre-care and then in the shelter. We had a long debate on this in committee yesterday. As you know, we are also constantly recruiting staff, not only for asylum reception services but also for treatment services. So we remain hard at work in all areas, to be one step ahead of the crisis. Is that easy? No, it is not easy, but it is also not easy in Sweden, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u47	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, if I have understood correctly, there is still the possibility that Afghans may be recognised on the basis of an individual dossier. It also creates additional places for asylum seekers who still have to register for whom the procedure has yet to be started. So that's good news. On the basis of a question that has just been asked about the creation of two institutions for interns, I would like to make another remark. The flowers have gone to the current Minister of Justice. However, we must also thank Mrs Onkelinx. It has, after all, initially ensured that these two files have been started.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u48	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u49	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the proposal for a resolution by Mr Damien Thiéry, Denis Ducarme, Olivier Chastel, Bert Wollants and Dirk Janssens and Ms Nathalie Muylle on Belgium's priorities at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in December 2015 (nrs 1364/1 to 10); - the proposal for a resolution by Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, and Mr David Geerts on the UN Conference in Paris on Climate Change (COP21) (Doc. 1393-1); - the proposal for a resolution by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees on Belgian climate policy following the UN Conference on Climate Change in Paris (COP21) (No. 1426/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Damien Thiéry, Denis Ducrame, Olivier Chastel, Bert Wollants and Dirk Janssens and Ms Nathalie Muylle concerning the priorities of Belgium at the Climate Conference (COP21) in Paris in December 2015 (Nos. 1364/1 to 10); - the motion for a resolution by Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Karin Temmerman and Ms Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Philippe Blanchart, Ms Karine Lalieux and Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr David Geerts on the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris (No. 1393/1); - the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees on Belgium's climate policy in the run-up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) (No 1426/1). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would also suggest that on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session we should include the bill by Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr Denis Ducarme, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Patrick Dewael, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke amending the law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for the threat analysis as regards the mandate of the alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services and the Standing Committee on Intelligence (Nos 1446/1 to 3). I also propose that you put on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill by Mr Hendrik Vuye, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, MM. Denis Ducrame, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Karin Temmerman and Messrs. Christian Brotcorne and Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Act of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis with regard to the terms of office of the alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services and the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence Services (Nos. 1446/1 to 3). Mr Konrad Degroote will report orally. Mr. Conseil Degroote fera rapport oral. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u50	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u51	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be relatively brief. It seemed to me important to reaffirm, as I have already had the opportunity to do in committee, our group's support for this bill. It contains a series of provisions amending the social status of self-employed persons. These are, of course, technical changes in certain respects. For example, the draft allows for clarification of certain provisions which have so far led to problems of interpretation. It also helps to fill some legislative gaps. Finally, it adapts existing legislation following the adoption of important reforms concerning the social status of self-employed workers. However, it would be unfair to limit this bill to its technical aspects. If it clarifies provisions that may give rise to problems of interpretation, they are far from anodizing. By way of example, the amendment made by Article 38 will, in particular, prevent self-employed persons who receive a survivor's pension and who have received a lower income in the reference year than the basic minimum income on which the minimum contributions of self-employed persons on a principal basis are calculated, but who nevertheless form part of the category of self-employed persons on a principal basis, from paying contributions below the statutory minimum contribution for such self-employed persons on a principal basis. The bill takes into account the recent reform of the authorized activity of pensioners. As a reminder, the activity is now unlimited for beneficiaries of a retirement pension as of January 1st of their 65th birthday. The activity is also allowed unlimitedly for beneficiaries of an early retirement pension with 45 years of career when taking courses of their first pension. I will also highlight the creation of the "bridge law". This reflects the desire of the minister and the majority to create a genuine safety net for self-employed workers. Of course, in recent weeks several indicators have shown that the measures adopted in recent months, particularly in terms of competitiveness, are in the right direction. Our companies regain confidence, but the situation remains fragile. We are well aware of that. The "bridge law" will make it possible to target more situations of bankrupt self-employed people in order to bring them this safety net and to consider their professional conversion calmly, as has already been possible for wage-earners. The Minister recalled this this week when he presented his policy note: supporting the self-employed in their status is an indispensable condition for the development of entrepreneurship in our country. This bill is part of a momentum initiated by the majority since the beginning of this legislature. That is why we will support him. Colleagues, I thank you for listening to me and I thank the government for the progress it has made on this status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group and I are very pleased with the draft law before us which will introduce a number of substantial improvements to the social status of the self-employed. I would like to mention two elements, which we consider to be very important, when discussing the draft law. Firstly, we have been advocating for some time that bankruptcy insurance is turned into a bridge insurance scheme and that insurance cover is extended to cover the risk of cessation for economic reasons. In addition to social insurance after bankruptcy and forced cessation, social insurance will now also apply in the context of an economic cessation, for economic reasons. Bridging insurance covers much more cargo than bankruptcy insurance, especially given the current extension of insurance to the risk of economic reasons. The term also says much more about the policy we have in mind with insurance, in particular offering a second chance to entrepreneurs and self-employed people who have had bad luck and therefore do not have to get into trouble any more. The insurance is a bridge, limited in time, in the meantime to come straight again and be able to start again. We are therefore pleased that the withdrawal is now included in insurance cover for economic reasons. In order to avoid worse, it is sometimes better to stop yourself when one sees that it is no longer economically sound and sensible to continue. The self-employed person then deserves a bridge to a second chance or another future. I therefore wish you every success in issuing the necessary royal decision to define the definition and scope of the concept of "economic reasons'. Of course, it cannot be intended to be interpreted very broadly. There are, of course, limits to the concept of economic reasons. The need criterion may also be included. The second element I would like to mention when discussing the draft law is the change in the system of replacement entrepreneurs to bring it into line with the new royal decree on carers. This provision shall be extended, inter alia, to the benefit of self-employed persons who have access to a disabled child under 25 years of age. The CD&V Group can only welcome the fact that this extension is included in the legislative amendment. I would like to thank you in advance for taking with you our concern, especially as regards bridge insurance and the other vision of bankruptcy insurance, and wish you every success in the further implementation of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments and questions and for the support of all the groups in the committee. The draft law laying down various provisions relating to the social status, which you are being presented, is divided into three parts. I'd like to talk about the bridge law. It will therefore be a new mechanism in our law, as you have pointed out. The aim is to allow those concerned not to go to bankruptcy and, if economic circumstances so warrant, to stop their activities in order to be able to return. With this in mind, they will have a "bridge right" for a maximum of one year – scindable if necessary. This is a very substantial change in the system as it existed today. We have already pre-edited the royal decree, in order to clearly define the categories of situations in which the activity will be prematurely interrupted and this "bridge right" can be requested. We will take into account very factual and objective elements in determining whether the situation makes it possible to benefit from this scheme or whether we are dealing with a normal economic risk, which does not justify this scheme. In addition, we have adapted a number of technical elements. In addition, we have taken into account the coming into force of the provisions concerning close caregivers by making a number of adjustments. I'm really happy with your support. I believe that this new provision, after the one concerning close caregivers, is a new step in the direction of supporting, making the status of self-employed more robust. This is important both for them and from an economic point of view. I thank you for your support and I remain attentive to your suggestions, whether they come from one or the other political group of the majority or the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u55	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u56	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1430/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1430/4) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u57	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u58	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u60	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1131/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1131/1) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u61	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u62	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u63	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u64	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1306/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1306/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs van Cauter, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u67	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1307/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1307/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u68	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs van Cauter, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u70	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1311/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1311/3) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax as regards the chargeability of the tax". The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u72	Pursuant to Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, a limited general discussion will take place in plenary. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, the bill is the subject of limited general discussion in plenary. The rapporteur, Mr Laaouej, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1329/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1329/1) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u75	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Anne Dedry, Muriel Gerkens, Georges Gilkinet, Stefaan Van Hecke The Committee on External Relations proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1149/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this bill. (1149/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament expressed its views on this proposal for rejection, after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u76	We propose that we vote against the rejection. It's a very logical reason. Policy coherence means that policy in general is adapted to the objectives of development cooperation. That makes sense, because we can still spend so much money on development cooperation, if our trade policy is totally counterproductive, then that makes no sense. Policy coherence is a fairly well-established concept. Several policy areas in our country are already being tested for their policy coherence with development objectives. There is an exception in our legislation, especially for international conventions and agreements. That is quite bizarre, just because international treaties and agreements can have a major impact on whether or not to achieve development objectives. This was set in motion in 2012 by Paul Magnette. We've set up a whole institutional architecture. It's not perfect yet. We're not here yet. There are still gaps here and there, but okay. We have effectively stated that Trade and Finance are two of the seven priority areas, where policy coherence in favour of development has to play. Those domains are explicitly listed in the Federal Government's statement of 23 May 2014 with the community and regional governments and in a KB on the Interdepartmental Commission of 2 April 2014. Then there was also a legal provision, in particular in the law several provisions of 31 December 2013 which provides for an exception for the test on policy coherence. Article 7 literally contains international conventions and agreements. With our legislative proposal, we want to eliminate this inconsistency, so that, for example, we can test the double taxation conventions for their development relevance. TTIP should also be tested for its impact on our development cooperation and its objectives, or the European Union's free trade agreement with Colombia and Peru. There are many international agreements that need to be tested for policy coherence. Unfortunately, the current legislation prevents this. With the External Relations Commission, we visited the OECD in Paris. This organisation also does impact analyses of our development cooperation and has evaluated them. Policy coherence is also central to the OECD. That is a matter of common sense. It is therefore not logical for our current legislation to provide for an exception to international conventions and agreements. The proposal must be brought to an end. I therefore urge you to vote against the rejection recommended by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u77	Mr President, the bill that my colleague De Vriendt and I tabled is intended to amend the law of 15 December 2013 which, at the time, had been introduced by the Minister for Cooperation, Mr Magnette, and aimed at the impact assessment of all legislation, except those which gave effect to international treaties. Article 8 of the Act exempts draft legislation on the approval of international impact assessment agreements and treaties. At the time, however, Minister Magnette was a great advocate of the impact assessment. He believed that the signing of trade agreements with countries around the world could have a very clear impact on development coherence policies. He stated in May 2012 in the General States of Development Cooperation that certain trade policies such as export subsidies or the production of agrofuels threatened the realization of fundamental rights in poor countries, including the right to food. A few weeks ago, we voted on a law approving a trade agreement between the European Union, Peru and Colombia. As we said with some colleagues, this treaty should have been subject to an impact assessment to see if it would not have a negative impact on the people of the South and on our development policy in general. In conclusion, I would say that something new has taken place since the discussions we have had in committee. Indeed, the Federal Council on Sustainable Development delivered an opinion on 23 October 2015 on the implementation of sustainable goals. The Commission requests the removal of the regulatory impact assessment exception for draft legislation on the acceptance of trade treaties and agreements. This independent body of development cooperation experts is clearly calling for what we are asking for in our bill. That is why we are asking you to vote against the rejection of this bill, which is the result of common sense, as many colleagues in committee have pointed out. Come back to your senses!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u78	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u79	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Hendrik Vuye, Laurette Onkelinx, Denis Ducarme, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Karin Temmerman, Christian Brotcorne, Stefaan Van Hecke
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal that was considered here last week and for which the urgency was accepted last week. The proposal was discussed yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs. Basically, it comes down to the following. In the event of the replacement of one of the five permanent members of the P Committee, an alternate shall be replaced each time and a new six-year period shall begin to run for that alternate from his swearing-in. According to logic, however, that alternate would fulfil the mandate for the remainder of his predecessor's term of office. To do so, so that in future the alternate will be appointed only for the remaining term, the present bill was submitted. Yesterday, that bill was discussed in the Committee on the Interior, where it was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u83	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1446/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1446/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u85	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1364: Damien Thiéry, Denis Ducrame, Olivier Chastel, Bert Wollants, Dirk Janssens, Nathalie Muylle - 1393: Daniel Senesael, Karin Temmerman, Laurette Onkelinx, Philippe Blanchart, Karine Lalieux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, David Geerts - 1426: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u86	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1364/10) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1364/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u87	Mr President, in the Conference of Presidents, we had a discussion on the presence of the competent minister, since, beyond today's resolution, this is a particularly important subject, which could have been addressed at the time of topical issues. Indeed, the different levels of power must reach an agreement before COP21. That commitment was given to us; that is why we did not raise any topical issues and we gave the minister time to arrive. So I'd like to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u88	I suppose, Mrs. Onkelinx, you had the same question. Here's my answer. I sent a text message to the minister who, apparently, is in Kern. But it is true that we agreed to his presence yesterday. So I can only propose two things to you: start the report with Mrs Muylle. The second option is to suspend the hearing now. But perhaps it is better to move on to the report, the Minister is on his way. Yes, the minister is coming. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u89	Mr President, I propose that we start by reading the report. If the minister is to arrive right after, because I imagine that the Kern is meeting next door, I do not have any personal problems with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u90	Mr President, the National Security Council is meeting for the time being. Therefore, I would be surprised if a Kern were held at the same time. What the hell is this? The National Security Council is currently meeting, as the OCAM has decided to move the threat in Brussels from level 4 to level 3. This is an important event. I would therefore be surprised if Mrs Marghem was in Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u91	We will therefore start with the three rapporteurs. If the minister isn't there after that, we'll suspend and wait for her to arrive. Mrs Muylle has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report is presented by three rapporteurs. Mr Senesael and Mr Dedry will also take part. At its meetings on 20 and 27 October 2015, and 10, 17 and 19 November 2015, the Health Commission examined three proposals for resolution on COP21. This concerns the documents No. Point 1364, by Mr Thiéry (Doc. 1393 by Mr Senesael and No 1393 by Mr Selenael, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 1426 by Mr Hedebouw. At the meeting on 27 October, the three proposals were presented and the committee decided to proceed on the basis of proposal No. 1364, by Mr Thiéry. At the committee meeting on 20 October, a first part of the general discussion was held in the presence of Ms Sokolowski, Minister Marghem's cabinet assistant. Mr Senesael began by saying that questions to the government should be quantified more concretely and that they should be implemented. He made two substantive comments. First of all, an agreement must be reached on Burden Sharing before the Paris Conference. Secondly, the resolution needs to be much clearer on climate finance. Mr Nollet continued by pointing out that realism is used in climate debates by people who do not believe in the theory of climate change as a result of human activity. He argued that setting quantified and binding targets is the only remaining option. In his view, however, this objective is missing from the resolution. Mr Nollet therefore felt that a second option should be chosen in the draft text, in particular the increase in temperature, which should be limited to one and a half degrees and should not exceed two degrees. Mr Nollet also stressed the need to focus on the long term. He also regretted that no reference was made to mobility. Moreover, he felt that Belgium should be clear about the financing of the Green Climate Fund. According to Mr de Lamotte, the resolution should have been strengthened. For example, the Copenhagen commitments must be implemented. The chairman of the committee, Mrs Gerkens, stressed the importance of agriculture and food in the world. And Mr Thiéry pointed out that the Burden Sharing is currently under negotiation. He agreed on the need to work in the areas of industry, heating and mobility. It also confirmed the importance of climate finance, which should contribute to significant progress in development cooperation. So much for the committee meeting on 20 October. The second part of the general discussion was held at the committee meeting on 27 October. The discussion was divided into two parts, namely Belgium and Burden Sharing, on the one hand, and the state of play at European and international level in relation to COP21, on the other. Minister Marghem drew attention to the urgent need for a climate agreement at Belgian level, at the latest before the Paris Conference. The Minister indicated that it was agreed with the four Environment Ministers that they would submit the preliminary agreement to their respective governments for approval. The Minister insisted that she wanted to reach the final agreement with which everyone agreed within a reasonable period of time. Mrs Onkelinx was pleased to hear that the four ministers could have reached a preliminary agreement. She pointed out, however, that this preliminary agreement had already been questioned by the Federal Deputy Prime Minister. It therefore wondered whether this preliminary agreement was still being defended by the federal government or whether it was now taking a step back. Mrs Temmerman joined us. She also pointed out that the current situation did not improve Belgium's image abroad. Mr Hedebouw informed us that he did not consider what was on the table today to be sufficient. Mr Nollet stressed that the agreement reached on Saturday had already been called into question on Sunday. He added that there is currently a sense of climate apathy in Belgium. Mr de Lamotte said that the result was realistic in relation to the regions and the federal level. Part II, in particular the preparation of the climate summit, was then discussed both at European level and internationally. Mr Senesael pointed out that on 22 October 2015, 152 countries that together produce 87% of world emissions indicated their reduction targets. In cumulative effect this means that there would be a climate increase from 2.7°C to 3°C compared to the pre-industrial period. The speaker also wanted to know how the necessary commitments would be made 35 days before the climate conference to improve this situation. Mr Friart wondered what Belgium's priority subjects would be at the climate summit. Mrs. Temmerman had the same question. Mr Hedebouw also said that there were voices in Paris to make a little ambitious climate agreement and wondered what the minister was about. In response, Minister Marghem said that Belgium and the European Union would speak with one voice during the UN negotiations. Belgium wishes the European Union to continue to play a leading role in these negotiations and to be a facilitator. It continued that Belgium is in favour of an ambitious, equitable and multilateral climate plan involving all others, based on scientific conclusions. At the committee meeting on 10 November the discussion continued and the discussion of the recitals began. The amendments to the recitals were made immediately. Mr Nollet came up with Amendment No. 1 in recital A. He indicated that the temperature increase by the year 2100 to 1.5°C should be limited and should be at least less than 2°C. Mr Senesael tabled an amendment with the same content. Mr Nollet tabled an amendment to recital C in which he stated that the Committee of the Regions of the European Union had adopted three binding objectives at its meetings on 7 and 8 October, which clearly went beyond the objectives adopted by the other institutions. Amendment No 4 by Mr Nollet in recital J referred to the position taken by 75 Belgian CEOs and academics wishing to switch to a low carbon economy. In recital J, there was also an amendment No. 51 in which Mr Thiéry asked for the role to be included in the resolution of the circular economy. In Amendment No. In recital L, Mr Janssens stated that climate change has a negative effect on human rights in general and has a particularly negative impact on gender equality. Mr Thiéry asked in Amendment No. In recital L, a strong decoupling of CO2 emissions and economic growth is possible without negative effects on economic growth. Amendment No The aim of Mr Nollet's fifth recital was to draw attention to the effects of climate change on agriculture and food safety. In Amendment No. 6 in recital S, Mr Nollet asked for the strong position of the OECD of 20 October 2015 on the insufficient efforts to combat climate warming and the need to include carbon pricing in the recitals. The same was true of Amendment No 7 in recital T, where Mr Nollet asked to include the report of the European Environment Agency, which shows that Belgium will not meet its 2020 targets and that without additional intervention the European Union can limit its emissions by only 27%. In Amendment No. In recital 31, you noted that climate change hits the social, economic, political and institutional groups hardest on the sidelines. Mr Senesael explained in Amendment No. 32 in recital V that the mention of climate change exacerbates the inequality between North and South and rich and poor. Mr Thiéry put in Amendment No. In recital Y, we must also take account of socio-economic issues, the price of electricity, the competitiveness of businesses and the fight against energy scarcity. In Amendment No. In recital Z, Mr Thiéry explained and sought to highlight the economic benefits of optimal and sustainable use of natural resources. Mr Nollet asked that the social gains and job creation resulting from sustainability should also be cited. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the discussion of the recitals and the general discussion. Mr Senesael will deal with the first questions to the government for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Muylle for the first part of this report. It is true that there have been lengthy debates in committee. My oral report will therefore not be complete. Please excuse me in advance. For those who have the curiosity, you can always search for our exchanges in the written report. I shall report to you on the work of this committee on item 1 of the resolution. This point concerns the requests to the government to implement at Belgian level. Point 2 concerns applications to be implemented at European level and will be dealt with by Mrs Dedry. In the resolution of Mr Damien Thiery et al., which served as the basis for our work, there was initially only one request for the national level. All other requests concerned the European and international levels. In the basic text in point 1, the Federal Government was only asked to comply, in consultation with the Regions, with the obligations set out in 2008 by the European Commission. Ms. Onkelinx, Ms. Temmerman, Mr. de Lamotte, Mr. Nollet, Ms. Gerkens, Mr. Hedebouw all indicated that a single national request was not enough. They therefore all introduce multiple amendments. Mr Thiéry said that he was open to discussion of the amendments. The majority will also introduce amendments to the basic text. The next item is the amendments tabled in the Committee on Health. Ms. Nathalie Muylle et al. introduced several amendments to harmonize the two language versions of the text and to redraft various points. Mr Michel de Lamotte introduced his amendment 49 which called for ratification of the agreement on burden-sharing of 24 October 2015 between the regional and federal ministers of the environment. Mr Damien Thiéry did not agree with Amendment 49. Mrs Karin Temmerman and I introduce Amendments Nos 35 and 75 which call on the government to conclude an agreement with the regions on burden sharing before COP21. We consider it essential that such an agreement be reached before we go to Paris in order to maintain the sufficient international credibility in Paris. Mr Damien Thiéry agrees with this request. MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees introduce Amendment No 86, which seeks to insert a new demand, namely to achieve the reduction of national emissions by the State's own means, without resorting to flexible mechanisms or so-called green taxes. Mr Damien Thiéry opposed the amendment. MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees introduce Amendment No 91, which aims to place water, energy and mobility under the control of the public authorities. Mr Damien Thiéry opposed the amendment. MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees introduce Amendment No 95, which calls for a ban on the use of environmental taxes that are socially unjust. Mr. Damien Thiéry does not subscribe to it. Mr Nollet, Mr Karin Temmerman and I are introducing amendments that set the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium by at least 80-95% by 2050 compared to their 1990 levels. Mr Damien Thiéry endorsed these amendments. Mr Nollet, Mr Karin Temmerman and I are introducing amendments calling for the gradual disengagement of fossil fuels and a target of 100% renewable energy by 2050. Damien Thiéry objected because he considered this objective unrealistic in 2050. Mr Nollet introduced Amendment No 12, which called for fiscal policies that supported soft transport and public transport more than cars. Mr Damien Thiéry did not agree with this amendment. Mr Nollet introduced his amendment No 15 which aims to gradually generalize the use of social and environmental clauses in public procurement. Rather, it is proposed to refer to the concept of sustainable public procurement. Mr Nollet's Amendment No 16 calls for the establishment of the Climate Centre of Excellence. Mr. Damien Thiéry has no objection. Mr Nollet then presented his amendment No. 17, which pursued a twofold objective: on the one hand, a national "climate plan" which gave a clear overview of the political actions undertaken and planned and their expected effects and, on the other hand, a "climate" law giving its legal basis to the above-mentioned plan and establishing a carbon neutral objective in 2050. Damien Thiéry cannot subscribe to the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050. Mr. Michel de Lamotte then wonders what the government's objective is in this area. Mr Nollet and I then introduce the amendments that call for the federal share of financial revenues from the auctioning of ETS allowances to be devoted to domestic policies to combat global warming and to international climate finance. Mr. Thiéry is not in favour of it. Mr Wollants asked for a concrete example of the situation covered by this amendment. What domestic policy at the federal level could thus be allocated the federal share of the above-mentioned financial revenues? Ms Onkelinx cited transport, public buildings and taxation. Ms. Temmerman did not see the concrete reason why this request received such opposition and feared to see its cause in a restrictive and erroneous view of the federal state's powers at the climate level. Following this discussion, Mr Thiéry et al. introduced sub-amendment No. 131, which states that the federal share of the financial revenues generated by the auction will be well spent on all policies to combat global warming in the field of sustainable energy and climate. Several members of the committee welcome this move by the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the many exchanges on climate finance. All opposition parties are calling for an annual budget for the United Nations Green Fund in the resolution, and more broadly for the implementation of international climate solidarity. The PS and sp.a demand 50 million euros as of 2016. The PTB also requested that this amount be gradually increased to 500 million by 2020. Ecolo-Groen is demanding 250 million in 2020. After many discussions, the majority tabled Amendment No 152 in an attempt to reach a consensus. The amendment calls on the government to commit itself to a maximum of EUR 50 million in contributions from the Belgian authorities each year, to be allocated between the federal state and the federated entities. Ms Temmerman believes that this amendment will clearly be of value only when the government agrees to an amendment to the draft general expenditure budget for the 2016 budget year. Mr Nollet considers it counterproductive to talk about a maximum amount. Furthermore, Mr Nollet pointed out that Mr Thiéry's amendment did not provide for the additional character of official development assistance. Mrs Onkelinx opposed the content of Amendment No 152. In her view, the wording of this amendment shows a lack of unanimity among the majority. This amendment imposes a maximum amount when it does not speak of a minimum amount. No concrete budgetary effort has yet been planned and no specific timetable has been set. Mrs Onkelinx also denounces the fact that the amendment does not require that funding for the United Nations Green Fund be additional to Belgian development aid. Mr. de Lamotte agreed with Ms. Onkelinx's comments. Nor does he agree with Amendment No 152 because of the absence of a minimum amount and the fact that the government parties have not yet done anything to include a figure in the draft general budget for the 2016 budget year. Ladies and gentlemen, since I will no longer speak in the debate, I would like to add four more personal considerations. First, there were many exchanges in the Health Committee. Almost 150 amendments have been introduced. Secondly, I would like to welcome the work of each of the Members present and the opening of the majority on part of these amendments. Thirdly, the fight against global warming requires a union of all forces. Finally, I regret that our Assembly is leading this debate four days before the Paris Conference, when no inter-federal agreement has been reached on burden sharing and no amount has been included in the federal budget for the United Nations Green Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u94	Mr President, following on from my two co-rapporteurs, I would like to present a brief report on the discussion of the requests to the government at European level. Many amendments were tabled to the original resolution. We also had a number of interesting discussions at committee meetings. I'll summarize them for you. Many Members have tabled amendments to the text on the diplomatic initiatives to be taken at European level with a view to a global climate agreement that is fair, ambitious and binding. A number of amendments have therefore strengthened the original text for the better. There has been extensive discussion on quantified targets in terms of short, medium and long term greenhouse reduction. An amendment was adopted to promote a clause, which regularly revises the objectives and climate agreements in order to limit temperatures to a maximum of 1.5 to 2°C, and to achieve carbon neutrality in the medium term. The financing of climate policy, including through the use of innovative sources of funding, has been discussed in detail, as has the fair contribution of Member States to the Green Climate Fund, which will be used to finance projects in developing countries, with particular attention to combating energy poverty. It also discussed adaptation and mitigation measures and the recognition of climate refugees. The members of the committee agreed that measures should be taken by 2020, in particular before the implementation of the agreement in Paris starts. The resolution called for gender equality in its requests, as women are key actors in the development of agriculture, food production and the economy in developing countries. We also discussed aid to developing countries and how we can help them develop new technologies and infrastructure. Finally, the members of the committee agreed that the development of good climate policy should involve cooperation with all the Member States concerned, as well as with all the actors in civil society and the various sectors. The amended resolution proposal on Belgium's priorities at the Paris Climate Conference in December 2015 was adopted in committee by ten votes to four. Colleagues, I would like to conclude with a word of thanks. I would like to express my thanks to the services for the excellent work they have done under high time pressure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are on the eve of the Paris Climate Conference. Time after time, year after year, it is the challenge of these climate conferences to seek a follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol, which ran until 2012 and which was the only binding agreement concluded in recent decades on the fight against global warming. That indeed deserves a follow-up, not because this is good on our resume, but because it is absolutely necessary to combat that dangerous warming with more than 2° Celsius as much as possible. The challenge is therefore more than ever to get as many countries behind a climate agreement as possible. Where there were still many countries left behind in the Kyoto Protocol when it came to reducing their emissions or ratifying the Convention as a whole, the aim is now to reach a comprehensive binding agreement. Within Europe too, the difference between Kyoto and the current targets set is very large. Under Kyoto, many countries within Europe were allowed to emit more greenhouse gases, up to 27% more. We know that this direction has no future. We need to get all the noses in the same direction. We all have to move forward. In the run-up to Paris, a number of larger countries or regions have put forward so-called pledges. These are promises about what they will do to reach that agreement and anchor it. This shows that we are indeed moving in the right direction, but also that we are not yet there. Europe opts for a reduction of around 40% by 2030, making it absolutely one of the world's leading players in this respect. During the committee meetings I crossed over the list of pledges of large regions of the region, including the United States, Canada, Indonesia and China. It is absolutely clear how Europe's leading role is. The challenge is therefore that the large countries or large regions should take further steps to achieve what Europe is already putting forward. The big problem is and will continue to be that CO2 and climate change are a global problem and that global solutions must therefore be put forward so that the problem is dealt with as evenly as possible. I believe that we should do so in a way that is based as much as possible on cost-efficiency throughout the world. In this way, we will ensure that, both within Europe and outside, the cost of reducing CO2 is brought into the debate. I tell no secret when I say that reducing a tonne of CO2 does not cost the same in all countries. Cost efficiency is therefore a way for us to do as much as possible with the resources available. When I read the resolution, taking into account the path we have gone through, I believe that it contains important recommendations for the government, including as regards anchoring the objective of the maximum temperature increase target and calling for maximum decoupling between economic growth and CO2 emissions. It is also important that we ensure that we can use the federal part of the revenues from allowances for renewable energy and climate measures. In this respect, my fellow Members, the resolution contains a great deal. In the end, our methodology was based on how we could ensure broad support, so that we could achieve as much as possible, and how we could discuss it. I believe that we were open to a contribution to this motion for a resolution by all parties. In practice, we have spent a great deal of time working on the text, not just in committee. We have organised additional meetings in working groups, across the borders of majority and opposition, so that everyone can make their contribution. As a result, many amendments were tabled, up to 160 reportedly. Many of them were accepted, but many were also rejected in the discussion. We have to admit that, too. The intention of getting everyone behind the motion for a resolution was more than sincere. However, we had to note that the amendment was not always such that it was intended to reach an agreement. There were amendments that frowned the eyebrows. What should we think, for example, about the addition to the reform of energy policy? What should we think about the proposal to organise long-distance transport only by train? This is a pity for all the ports in this country, and even more so for the trading partners that are separated from us by oceans. What should we think about the idea without increasing the amount of SNCB without making any link to the climate? Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot shake the impression that some of these proposals were not intended to contribute to the creation of a wide-ranging proposal for a climate resolution. At the end of the journey, after all the discussions, many amendments were accepted, from the majority and from the opposition. Unfortunately, we must also note that the open attitude and the willingness to compromise did not lead to a broad-based agreement. I think there are a lot of important things in our motion for a resolution. There are a lot of concerns included. However, many colleagues were unable or unwilling to commit themselves at the end of the journey. With this motion for a resolution, we are giving an important mandate in the context of the Paris Climate Conference. The text also makes it clear what the challenge is: take great steps forward, move in the right direction with a supported agreement and ensure that everyone is prepared to compromise and dare to take the step to argue and act together for an agreed solution. I sincerely hope that the compromise will be greater in Paris than in our hemisphere. Mr Nollet and Mr Thiéry will soon be able to observe closely where we are going in Paris. With the proposal for a resolution, we in Belgium are creating the right framework to participate fully in the negotiations and to participate in the other countries. We have always played the leading role in Europe, and we are still doing so. The numbers prove that. Let us now ensure that we can take the other countries to the bath and reach a global, broad-based and binding agreement, because that is the debate that really needs to be held today. That's the real challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u96	Mr President, before I speak in line with the statements made by my friend, colleague and comrade Daniel Senesael, I would like to ask the minister about burden sharing. An agreement has been detricated. You were questioned within the federal government itself. Several partners among the country's environment ministers, notwithstanding this disagreement, were open for a revision of the agreement. Indeed, what matters is to arrive in Paris with an agreement between the federal government and all the regions. A new proposal has been put on the table. The federal government's response to this new proposal has not yet been provided. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like you to give us some guidance on this matter. In the event of agreement, the meaning of my intervention will have to be changed. So, Mr. Chairman, I would like to question the minister. She said that she was participating in the Kern, which I was surprised to hear, because at the same time there was a National Security Council under the Prime Minister's chairmanship, but perhaps in the corridors she had presented the new proposal for a distribution in line with the Burden Sharing. Has an agreement been reached? When will this answer be available? I think we are entitled to this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u97	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, I shall therefore repeat myself, since this is still the situation at the moment when I speak to you. We continue to work on the agreement we want before COP21.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u98	Minister, as a language of wood, it's not bad. Of course, we can do better! I'd like to insist. You're not busy talking anymore. You talked. A proposal is on the table. We're waiting for your answer. I would like to know whether you have already discussed this new proposal in the federal government. If so, what is its position? If not, when will it come to the agenda of the federal government's discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u99	As I explained yesterday in the Committee on Health to Mr Nollet, who was asking me about the Environment policy note, since the negotiations have not yet been concluded, I will not communicate one or the other element which might not make them successful, on the one hand, and on the other hand, communicate elements of the agenda. I can tell you the story afterwards, without any problems, as well as the agenda details, which will have lost all their meaning after the fact. But I won't do what you ask me to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u100	Good. My colleagues were constantly telling me that Mrs Marghem had small problems in terms of transparency and information. I see this today, on a topic as sensitive and important as this one. And I very much regret it. We supported you in your agreement with the Environment Ministers. We said you negotiated a good deal in honor. You were questioned by the members of your government, in particular because this agreement was supposedly too favourable to the French-speaking part of the country. Nevertheless, we supported you by saying that for the first time an agreement had been reached and that it was historic. Now, the Paris negotiations will start in a few days and you continue to say that you do not know, that you continue to negotiate, that, even in terms of agenda, you will not say anything. I find this particularly lamentable. I'd have been content with a date. You're not even able to give me a date for a possible deal. I'm sorry. This is lamentable depending on the importance of the issue. Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Barack Obama is one of many responsible for recalling the climate emergency. He said it in simple terms, which affect the entire population. He said: "We are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change and probably the last to be able to do something yet." These words, which have been declined by a whole series of officials, are obviously just words, strong words. The various IPCC reports are overwhelming. The overall temperature average shows a warming of 0.85° over the period from 1880 to 2012. Each of the last three decades has been warmer than the previous and warmer than all previous decades since 1850. These scientific findings may seem abstract, but for millions of people, global warming is no longer abstract. For millions of people, global warming is not a scientific projection but a daily reality. Coastal areas threatened by rising oceans, food insecurity as a result of loss of soil fertility, increasing storms, floods, extreme heat waves, the consequences of warming are now a reality. The causes are known and simple: human activity, including the massive use of fossil fuels, is the main cause of global warming, according to the scientific community as a whole. In other words, global warming is caused by man and it is therefore up to humanity as a whole to implement the means necessary to stop it. On November 13, Paris was synonymous with terror. In four days, the French capital must be synonymous with hope. The Paris Conference must be a new beginning in the fight against global warming. Political leaders, social partners, NGOs and citizens must all mobilize to make Paris a success. I regret, as others have said earlier on topical issues, that we have not been able to know in this country a broad citizen march since there is a mobilisation on networks, in micro-projects, which shows that participation, citizen awareness is extremely important. Our assembly must, of course, participate fully in this movement. The PS and the Sp.a. have decided to work together and we have tabled, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, a resolution and amendments. Once it is not customary, I would like to thank the majority, and in particular Damien Thiéry, for his constructive attitude. When it exists, it must be said, and when it does not exist, criticism is therefore better heard. There were several resolutions and we worked from that of the majority. There have been hundreds of amendments and there has indeed been an effort to incorporate a whole series of them. I would therefore like to say that this resolution has positive aspects. We must not be reductive and say that this text is bad on the grounds that not all of our amendments have been accepted. That's not what I'm saying. In my view, this motion for a resolution has some positive aspects. For example, the overall objective to be achieved at the Paris Conference was unanimous in the Committee on Public Health. However, let us take a good account of how we disagree with the majority in order to achieve this and to combat warming. In committee, we have all called for the future Paris Protocol to be global, fair, ambitious and binding. We want a global agreement, because all countries, and in particular those that are the main emitters of greenhouse gases, must of course participate in the fight against global warming, otherwise that would make no sense and we could not make progress. We also call for a fair agreement, because it must naturally give substance to international solidarity with the developing countries and provide for the social support of the most vulnerable and the workers. In addition, we need an ambitious agreement, because maintaining global warming below 1.5 to 2 degrees requires, according to the IPCC, strong policies to reduce global emissions between 40 and 70 per cent by 2050. Finally, we want a binding agreement because, in order to be effective, the commitments it contains will have to be clear, comparable and verifiable by all parties. At our level, the motion for a resolution also confirms the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our country by 80 to 95 per cent by 2050. This commitment had already been made in 2013. The fact that the current majority is taking it back is a good thing. Another positive point is that the text provides for the creation of a Centre of Excellence for Climate, which would be a forum for exchange and research for our scientists and would allow for increased awareness among the general public. Of course, we support this project. Finally, I would like to highlight another political step that has been accepted by the majority, certainly after very long debates – the members of the committee will remember that. It has been accepted that the federal share of ETS revenues should be invested solely in climate policies, including offshore wind, federal public buildings or SNCB. We do not yet know the exact amount that the federal government will get, but we know that it will be several tens of millions of euros by 2020. The Federal Government will receive this money once an agreement has been reached between the Federal and the Regions on the allocation of efforts in implementation of the EU's energy-climate package covering the period 2013-2020. As I have just pointed out, there are positive aspects – that is not negligible – to some extent at the beginning of the Paris negotiations. That being said, the openness shown by the majority has had its limits. Political disagreements have emerged on how to address climate change. I will give you a few examples since our colleague from the N-VA has indicated that incredible amendments aimed at re-federalising energy and energy policies or making public all mobility policies have been tabled. As you know, there have been different voices about this, either in the majority or in the opposition. But other amendments that you could have accepted were not mentioned. Yet, it seems to me that they were supported by part of your majority. Thus, for example, the majority of the four irons have slowed down on the issue of the tax on financial transactions. Such a tax would make it possible to have innovative financing, but the majority refused to support enhanced cooperation between a core group of European states in favour of the financial transaction tax. In our view, the establishment of this enhanced cooperation is, however, an indispensable step before this type of tax is generalized at the level of the European Union. I therefore really regret that the majority is going back on this subject when – and I appeal here to those who were part of the old majority – our assembly had already voted in favour of enhanced cooperation in 2013. Just a few days from the Paris Conference, you're going back on such a subject. This is crazy! In terms of mobility, we regret that the majority has not dared to question the incredible budget cuts that are putting rail transport at risk. A policy that puts corporate cars on a pedestal and disinvests in rail is nevertheless doomed to economic and environmental failure. With regard to mobility, the majority also refused to request that the aviation sector be subject to reductions in these greenhouse gas emissions. Frankly, an effort could have been made. This is absolutely necessary. I regret it; all these elements are problematic for my group. I would say that it is mainly the total lack of commitment to international solidarity that weakens the resolution. We've talked a lot about it, you've hesitated a lot and you've talked a lot about it in the majority. In fact, the major gap in the resolution is that it does not contain any budgetary commitment to international climate solidarity. Unbelievable! At COP21, decisions must be taken unanimously by the countries present. One of the keys to success is the treatment that will be given to so-called vulnerable countries so that they agree to embark on a legally binding agreement. Assistance to developing countries must enable those countries to achieve their social development without taking the same polluting paths we have taken in the past. At the 2009 Copenhagen Conference, industrialized countries set themselves the goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year by 2020 to support developing countries. This promise is therefore linked to the historical responsibility of developed countries in the phenomenon of global warming. If this promise is not fulfilled, it is a real threat to the conclusion of an agreement in Paris. Unfortunately, in his government statement on 13 October 2015, the Prime Minister did not announce a federal contribution to the United Nations Green Fund. In the 2016 draft budget that we are discussing in the various committees, no appropriations are foreseen. Not a single euro! In other words, the federal government is going to go empty pockets at the Paris Conference. Like many NGOs, like many movements, like many citizens, we do not accept this neglect of the federal government. We will, like other opposition groups, resubmit amendments to include a budget of EUR 50 million in 2016 for the United Nations Green Fund. This was rejected by the majority. I call on the majority to reflect again on this amendment. We cannot go to the Paris Conference without a budget to be put on the table to secure this legally binding agreement. This would be a serious mistake because climate finance is indispensable. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to say to you today! The next few hours are crucial. We know that without agreement on burden sharing, without a budget for the United Nations Green Fund, Belgium will certainly go to Paris, but it will go there with a donkey's hat and the pockets holed! We must mobilize at the highest level, raise the level of our ambitions. That is true for Belgium; it is true for many countries. At present, the commitments put on the table by individual countries do not meet the two-degree objective. We're talking three to four degrees. It's dangerous because we know that beyond the two degrees of global warming, it's chaos. This threat to humanity as a whole is the real stake of COP21! It is clear that moving to a higher speed will require further efforts from all countries, from all citizens. In conclusion, I once again welcome the openness shown by the majority. I call on him to reconsider his position today, now, on the basis of the amendments that are being resubmitted. If this is not the case, my group will unfortunately not be able to support a resolution that is not up to the challenge, and I regret that. What a fine signal we could have given, to have a national consensus on a vital issue for the future of our planet, for the future of humanity! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u101	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our meetings on this resolution were very much appreciated and appreciated. I would also like to thank the participants in the joint work that has been carried out. As Mrs Onkelinx has just pointed out, a number of advances have been made, compromises have been reached. But for some points, we are actually not quite on the same wavelength. I say at the outset that, for some, this motion for a resolution is a step forward; for others, it is not ambitious enough. Every political force has the right to have its approach; it must be respected. When we talk about an ambitious approach, on the side of the MR and the majority, we wanted a resolution that was above all realistic, that is to say, the objectives that can be achieved. Of course, we are three days away from the opening of the Paris Conference. It can probably be said that this conference is one of the most important at the international level that will have taken place in 2015, if not the most important. I am going to be relatively short in the reasons for this importance, which have already been addressed. There is, of course, the fact of adopting or moving towards a universal treaty which must be binding, imposing specific obligations and adapted to each one. This is where I come back to the notion of an ambitious treaty, but which must absolutely remain realistic. And some say: this is a resolution and a resolution, by definition, requires us to be extremely ambitious and to define objectives that may not be achievable. It is true that the resolution as such is not always binding. But we do our parliamentary work. In the Health Committee, every year we give each member the opportunity to draw up an inventory or to ask the minister concerned, of the various resolutions adopted in previous years. The possibility is offered to review the status of this resolution on an annual basis. Therefore, even if at present this proposal is not suitable for all, it is re-readable in the long run and there is a way to change the situation much faster than we think.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u102	Indeed, the objectives must be achievable. But admit that asking for additional financing of the order of 50 million, for example, to start 2016 in order to have this international solidarity and to allow the legally binding is not the order of the impossible. It is a choice that you have made and that has made it almost impossible to support a resolution. Without additional resources, it is impossible to have a global agreement in Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u103	Of course, Mrs Onkelinx, the financial problem has come back very regularly in our debates. I will also refer to this in my speech. We talked about burden sharing. You got the minister's answer. The situation is what it is. It is not for me to give you additional information to the burden sharing, as the minister has been very clear about this. However, you also intervened with regard to the tax on the financial transaction. I will refer to it later in my speech to give you the current state of affairs. In the face of all the issues we are facing, the MR has, we cannot deny, been at the initiative of a resolution on which we have worked a great deal, given the number of pre-committee meetings and the hours spent in discussions, which have never been sterile. In this regard, I thank both the majority and the opposition for this constructive discussion. We can only welcome this initiative. Some would have said in their time that the MR was not sufficiently oriented "climate". By this resolution, we have shown that our training, as well as other training courses, has the desire to change the situation. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee in particular. She is unfortunately absent today as she rides a bike as part of a feuding activity. This COP21 federates and it is an exceptional thing. If I want to thank her, it is because during the discussions, which have sometimes been intense, she wanted to keep this objectivity as to how to conduct the work. Thanks to the support of the administrative staff, we have been able to work on an extremely clear picture which has enabled us to vote on 150 amendments. With the last amendments tabled, we come to 175. I may no longer be a young Member of Parliament, but I have never had the opportunity to reach a vote on a motion for a resolution that brought 175 amendments. Of the 150 debates in committee, more or less half led to a compromise between majority and opposition. I would like to refer to the question of energy. Its price, its mode of production, its availability, security of supply must remain a priority. Energy production is the primary driver of global warming, generating more than two thirds of global greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, the road ahead remains huge. We talked about a temperature increase limit that should stay below 2 degrees. We have been quite open to this adaptation, which is the range between 1.5 and 2 degrees. This is an extremely important element, simply because you can set the limit of 2 degrees, but there is always a way to do better. Secondly, Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to return to the problem of funding. You've been talking about $100 billion a year from 2020. That is an objective that the international community has set itself. Each following year, there will be exactly the same amount to finance this low-carbon energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u104	We are well aware of being in a context of tensions in public finances, an extremely complex budgetary context. That is the case with us, but in many other countries as well. This situation makes it relatively difficult to increase the tax burden on climate investment in us, but also in other countries, and certainly in developing countries. I would like to make an aside here on the financial transaction tax. A certain amount of additional information is needed, which could explain the situation in which we really are, which has led us to be more careful than you would have wanted. According to the latest information, we can be certain that Belgium will continue to make a constructive contribution to the introduction of a tax on financial transactions under the conditions described in the government agreement. We're sticking to it. This tax must introduce a tax on the sale of shares, bonds and derivatives. The aim is to limit market destabilization as much as possible through rapid short-term movements of large transactions. The underlying idea is to discourage speculation, to ensure greater social justice and to create a new source of income. At European level, this tax has been discussed since 2010. At the beginning of 2013, eleven Member States, including Belgium, decided to implement it. The expected gains, if my information is good, would be in the range of 10 to 34 or 35 billion annually. On the other hand, we have found that the most important problem that this proposal for a tax on financial transactions could cause is that it could have a negative impact on the real economy. Another risk is the relocation of financial institutions. Moreover, this tax, with only 11 Member States, runs counter to the capital market, according to the Union des Marchés de Capital (UMC). Belgium wants this tax to be adopted at European or global level, we had already discussed it at committee meetings. On 8 December, an Ecofin Council should be held at which the tax on financial transactions should be re-examined. That is the information that I can provide you for the time being on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u105	Mr Thiéry, I want to be sure that I understand what is happening. You give us further explanations, either, but are you busy justifying so that Belgium would no longer defend an agreement of eleven?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u106	You have just received the information that Belgium explicitly requests that all countries adhere to this initiative, namely the tax on financial transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u107	Yes, I heard it. On the limit, we all agree that ideally, countries around the world should adopt it. But I asked you whether, through these new elements, you were explaining that Belgium was no longer in favour of this being done initially through enhanced cooperation within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u108	That's not what I said. I am simply saying that this topic will be discussed by Ecofin on 8 December. At the moment, I am not in a position to announce what will be discussed at this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u109	I am in a position to tell you what is currently the mandate that Belgium, through the voice of its parliament, has given to the government on this subject. Do you know him?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u110	Yes. In the light of my information, I cannot personally commit myself to taking a position today, knowing that this issue will be addressed on 8 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u111	The only position we are asking you to take today is to confirm the position Belgium has always defended, namely that this takes place initially through enhanced cooperation. We're not asking you anything else. If you don't, you change Belgium's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u112	Again, I imagine that a minister will participate in this Ecofin. He's the one who needs to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u113	No, I ask you whether, through this motion for a resolution, you want to change the mandate that the government has received.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u114	No, we don't want to change it. That's not what I said. I simply said that we wanted to wait for the position of the other European countries to know if everyone is on the same wavelength.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u115	Mr Thiéry, I took with me the text that you voted in 2013 here in Parliament. On 4 July 2013, you voted: "continue to support the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, initially through enhanced cooperation within the European Union, then throughout the European Union and internationally." You voted for this text. Today, you refuse to include step 1, i.e. "first through enhanced cooperation". It's heavy of meaning, of course. You abandon the intermediate objective that allows this tax to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u116	Mr Nollet, I will quote exactly what the Minister of Finance has said recently: "Belgium is ready to continue work to achieve a TTF, but I want to make the necessary evaluations with all the Member States concerned in order to avoid such an instrument having a negative impact on the real economy, on large and small enterprises. Our course - and we are supported by Germany and Spain - is to exempt pension funds and insurance. France opposes this course of action." That is exactly what has been said. If you want to ask a more specific question about the Minister of Finance, you can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u117	I do not want to ask a question, I just want you to include in the text "first of all through enhanced cooperation". We are not yet talking about the content, we are giving a direction that was the one adopted by this Parliament in 2013 with your voice. No reverse!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u118	Whether it is the supplementary funds or the financial transaction tax, you always say that the question must be asked of the minister present. You therefore deny Parliament's role, especially in the context of a resolution. It is Parliament that addresses the government and says what it considers necessary in the preparations for the Paris Conference. You said you absolutely wanted an agreement on burden sharing before the Paris Conference. This is now included in the resolution, after many discussions. What you are asked to say is that we parliamentarians are addressing the government to ask for additional resources to the budget for the financing of the agreement. I am thinking of the tax on financial transactions. This was planned for 2013. If you don't plan it now, you're going back. We absolutely want to agree, within the framework of enhanced cooperation with countries that want to do so, to launch the tax on financial transactions that can finance the climate agreement. You cannot refer to a minister or another minister. This is a resolution. We therefore address the government and let it know, on behalf of all, what direction it is considered to take. It is only after the minister comes to justify himself against this resolution. As far as I am concerned, I believe that parliamentarians must assert themselves and not hide behind particular ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u119	It is clear that we will not reach an agreement today, which may be regrettable. Nevertheless, it is certain that we have had an important debate on all these issues in committee. At the moment, I am not in a position to tell you that we are going to go back to what has been voted on in committee. That is my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u120	Mr Thiéry, I can understand that you cannot follow us on a series of requests that aim to go further than what you are proposing and that the measures that have been adopted under the previous majorities. We can regret it, but we can understand it. In this case, what you are proposing is neither more nor less than a step backwards in relation to what has always been Belgium's position on the international stage. The Chairman of the Finance Committee has just joined us. To say that Belgium defends the tax on financial transactions no longer within the framework of enhanced cooperation but only within the framework of the 28 European countries is a step backwards. I have before me the text that was adopted in plenary on 4 July 2013, which you voted for. This is not a question of attentism in this area, but of a step backwards, which we cannot accept. This situation is regrettable not only in view of the climate in which we have been able to work, but also in view of Belgium's position on the international scene. Today, you send the signal that there will no longer be a tax on financial transactions until we reach 28! This is not acceptable! You must understand that we cannot accept this step backwards in relation to the measures that have already been adopted, in relation to what Parliament voted at the time. That is what you voted for less than two years ago!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u121	Mr Nollet, I understand your position, your willingness to start the debate on this subject again today. We can continue this discussion for another half hour but we are not on the same wavelength. I have no other information to give you. I understand that you're pointing that out. Having said that, if I remember correctly, two or three days ago, you said in the press that with this resolution, we were going back. I imagine you'll say that again when you intervene. I come to a positive message in relation to companies, which clearly have an extremely important role to play, and certainly in the future, to achieve clean development and contribute to low-carbon growth, job-creating growth, and growth, which we must share with all countries in science and technology. The fight against climate change is a fantastic opportunity to create sustainable growth and jobs in our territory. Our country has all the assets: researchers, state-of-the-art companies, recognized know-how around the world. In conclusion, Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an appointment such as COP21 will not be able to find a solution to all the problems generated by global warming or to ensure that states and individuals change their behaviour voluntarily and definitively. But it will at least bring together all States around a number of lines, set a timetable in the short and medium term and probably, thanks to the media and the impact of this meeting, bring all countries and especially all households into the energy transition. The challenge in today's modern democracies and globalized economies is to manage the short and long term. COP21 must be a definitive shift towards a resilient, low-carbon global society. We wanted to bring together the active democratic political forces in our country to try to reach consensus and to present a common and ambitious text. Perhaps not ambitious enough for some, but, in any case, realistic, even though there are still a number of questions. Following the vote on the motion for a resolution amended in committee, I imagine that we will not achieve our objective of having a consensus vote. I can only regret it. But I dare to believe that the fault will not only be blamed on those who have taken the initiative, who have opened the debate, who have taken the time to prepare, listen and work together. I think we were close to the goal; unfortunately, we will probably not achieve it. In any event, I thank all my colleagues in the majority for having tried a number of discussions, for having made concessions and found compromises within their own political formation in order to reach a consensus at the level of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Wollants said, we face major climate challenges. These challenges have an impact on many sections of society and therefore also on many policy areas of this and other parliaments. Over the last few weeks, we have worked hard, with an open vision, firstly, to reach a broadly supported climate resolution and secondly, to list Belgium's priorities at the Paris climate conference. During this period, the focus was often on the negotiations between the federal and federated entities in this country. Of course, it is an important part of our local efforts. Our group still believes that a climate agreement is close, although of course we are not quite there yet. Steps are being taken in the right direction. All this happens, I must agree with Mrs Onkelinx, in a very constructive atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen, we must of course bear in mind that climate change is a global problem, a problem which is also caused outside this assembly and beyond these borders, and which has an important impact beyond our borders. We are proposing renewable energy through the construction of windmills on land and at sea, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by moving away from fossil and nuclear fuels and, of course, against a backdrop in which we must not lose sight of economic reality. Moreover, we have made a number of recommendations for the protection of the most vulnerable people on this planet, such as women and children. Optimism is a moral duty . The package of questions and recommendations put forward by this resolution is a coat rack that can be supported by a solid climate policy, both for the Belgian level and for recommendations to European partners. I therefore call on all parties to support this realistic resolution on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u123	Mr President, today one of the titles in De Standaard is: "The Flame is gloomy about the climate summit'. One would be for less. If this country fails to reach agreement on the climate, how could 127 countries and more achieve an agreement? There was even more in that article: 70% of people are concerned about climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, what is stopping us from doing something about this as politicians? We are now discussing a resolution entitled "The priorities of Belgium at the Paris COP21 Climate Conference'. The first priority, of course, is to have an agreement, and we do not want to make a complete fool of ourselves in Paris. It's still not here. Madam Secretary, there are a few days left. I wish you every success in reaching an agreement. Climate change isn't for tomorrow. Today we are also experiencing the effects of climate change in Europe. I hope I do not have to convince the Members present. All heat records on all continents on earth were broken in 2015. All of them! Not only in what is called the poorer, endorsed countries. Many natural disasters, but also many conflicts in the world, originate in climate change. Just think of the great drought that causes great poverty, or of the falling water levels that lead to war for water. You may be surprised, but since 1975 the water level in Iraq has fallen by 80% and in Syria by 40%. Fertile farmland was transformed into unusable desert. There is a struggle for scarce water and people's movements are taking place. The UN expects 200 million climate refugees by 2050. I hope that I do not have to convince anyone in the hemisphere that the climate conference in Paris is really very important. Some speak of the summit of last chance. Ladies and gentlemen, several parties have tabled a motion for a resolution. Mr Thiéry has taken the initiative. I would like to stress once again that the many and intense talks have been constructive across party boundaries. Contrary to what Mr Wollants claims, there was indeed a great will to reach a consensus. The examples you quoted, Mr Wollants, are rather caricature. You know very well that we could not avoid a few points of principle, on which we could not admit. You and your party obviously couldn't give in on these points either. I would particularly like to thank Mr Thiéry here because he has been trying hard to reach a consensus and a broad-based resolution, but unfortunately he has not succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat everything the previous speakers have already said. It is true that the majority has tried to accept many of our arguments. These points were therefore taken into account in a constructive atmosphere. We particularly welcome the fact that the Belgian Government is being asked to align itself with the IPCC recommendations: to achieve the second objective, by 2050 80 to 95 % less greenhouse gases compared to 1990, the demand to move away from fossil and nuclear energy and to move towards 100 % renewable energy. There is a whole series of other proposals which we think are positive that you have accepted. Mrs. Onkelinx mentioned almost all of them. However, we continue to find it particularly regrettable that the majority of the majority, or part of the majority, one party, I suspect N-VA has refused to mention a number of issues explicitly. One of them is giving a date. We discussed 2050 for a very long time and suddenly Mr Thiéry's resolution 2050-2100. That was, of course, totally unacceptable. The majority then decided to leave out the number. So there is no deadline for renewable energy. The deadline may be 2050 or 2030 but may also be 2100. This cannot, of course, happen at a time when it is so important to invest in it. There are things that we find unacceptable and for which we have retabled the amendments. I am talking about the Tobin tax, but that discussion has already been extended, the refusal to invest further in public transport, to invest well, and the refusal to finance the climate fund that has been widely discussed earlier. I would like to reiterate that we have not entered anything in the budget for 2016 but nothing. I also continue to have problems with the very non-binding ambition of gradually moving towards carbon-neutral emissions of 100% renewable energy. We have tabled two amendments on this subject. We have tabled these two amendments in order to make this ambition even more ambitious and in fact to maintain Mr Thiéry's original resolution, which refers to 2050, and to set this target date for that 100 % renewable energy. We suspect that some parties have the will to endorse this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with amendments. 153 and 154, also signed by colleagues from the PS. Secondly, the fight against climate change can only be won if Belgium and Europe really get a grip on the financial flows in the energy sector. The private investment funds are available, we know that. However, they are not sufficiently oriented towards the climate-neutral projects and to the 100% renewable energy. New reports even show that banks have made more resources available for fossil fuels in recent years rather than focusing them on renewable energy. That's unbelievable. That is why we are in favour of Amendment No 2. 155 to oblige banks to invest in renewable energy. Thirdly, if we really want to do something about emissions, there must also be a sufficiently high price for CO2 emissions. Only in this way will climate risk derivatives be removed in the business case. The price for that is far too low today. It is important that Belgium insists on structural and sufficiently strong reforms of the emissions trading system in Europe. That is not what the resolution before us does. That is why we have Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 165. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that we will not approve the resolution. Parliament is in favour of an international climate agreement that is fair on a global scale, and we can still go along with it, but we do not think it is ambitious enough and too non-binding. We are left with a very harsh feeling. Again, with what credibility can Belgium go to this climate conference? Our country is a handkerchief, but we are still unable to reach an agreement ourselves. How, then, can we persuade other countries to do so, countries which are sometimes in much more difficult circumstances, including in the financial field, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? This is now being used as an argument, but how can Belgium credibly persuade these other countries to reach an agreement? Madam Secretary, I wish you a great deal of courage. I really hope that you will reach an agreement, although I fear it will, otherwise we will make a complete fool of ourselves in Paris. We no longer have any credibility in another area, but we will not be credible in this area either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u124	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I have a number of questions for you. We have been negotiating the climate agreement for a long time. I was there in 2009, then I followed the National Climate Commission of a bit less closely, but I know that there were a lot of elements there. At least in the beginning, I remember well, I remember those documents, by the way, that over the years we have found that certain regions in that country asked for their emissions to increase by 1.2 % in the allocation of that emission reduction target. Of course, this will not help if we are negotiating a climate agreement. Nor is it helping to market a region in the Netherlands to sell its surplus renewable energy at EUR 600 million per 0.5% during these negotiations. These are all elements that, of course, make things a little more difficult. Another aspect is that you say that renewable energy is incredibly important. I remember the debate during the previous legislature between Mr Vande Lanotte and Mr Wathelet on the possibility of providing additional areas for renewable energy. Mr Vande Lanotte was in favour. Eventually these were not included in the Marine Spatial Plan. I remember perfectly how things went. However, what you have done is to provide for state aid for fossil energy, namely through the call for tenders for the power plant. I do not quite understand, Mrs Temmerman, how that rhymes with your call just now in the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u125	Mr Wollants, it does not help, of course, if a minister reaches an agreement between the negotiators and the regions, that agreement will not be overturned twenty-four hours later by a Deputy Prime Minister of her own government. In this way, it is, of course, very difficult to negotiate between the federal government and the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u126	I can therefore say that I have asked three questions and received an answer to zero. Including record of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, about 90% of the disasters in the world over the past 20 years have been caused by climate-related phenomena, such as floods, storms, heat waves and droughts. This is reflected in the UN report released this Monday. Since the first World Climate Change Conference, COP1 in 1995 – now at COP21 – about 606,000 people have been killed and 4.1 billion more have been injured, lost their homes or needed emergency assistance as a result of climate-related disasters. I myself had to reread the figures that the United Nations published on Monday. The source is the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Centre for Research on Disaster Epidemiology, which is based in Belgium. The same United Nations office estimates that between $250 billion and $300 billion in annual losses are incurred by economies as a result of natural disasters. In total, an average of 335 climate-related disasters were recorded each year between 2005 and 2014, an increase of 14 per cent over the period 1995-2004 and almost twice the number recorded between 1985 and 1995. That is to say if, Madam Minister, we are launched, the world is launched in a race against the clock. Is it worth recalling that an increase of 2 degrees Celsius over the pre-industrial level would lead to an increase in the risk of extreme weather events, ocean acidification, an increase in sea level and put many ecosystems and societies at risk? An increase of 4 degrees Celsius, such as the prospects lead us to it if no firm action is decided, will increase the risk of extinction of a large number of animal species, food crises and other important consequences on our way of life. Of course, with the attacks, everything goes into the background and everything else seems ridiculous to us. A priori, it is understandable, but it is also the aim of terrorists to focus their attention on their actions and to forget the rest of the stakes. If one digs, the climate emergency and the terrorist emergency pose, in fact, a series of identical questions. Between 2007 and 2010, favored by the ongoing warming, a drought of severity never seen since the beginning of the weather surveys was established in the Syrian region. The United Nations estimates that 1.3 million Syrians are affected. In 2008, for the first time in its history, Syria had to import wheat. The following year, more than 300,000 farmers deserted the north-east of the country because they could not continue their activities. Not only does it not rain, but a large number of groundwaters, overexploited since the 1980s, are dry. In 2010, 17 per cent of the Syrian population were food insecure. Of course, the environmental determinants in no way invalidate the role of the other determinants: religious, political, economic, ethnic, which are usually emphasized. But their role is clear. How can we believe that the partial destruction of a country's primary production, linked to global warming, can have no effect on its stability and the security of its neighbours? To make a direct connection with the news, I told you about Syria but we can expand. It can be seen that natural disasters move 26 million people each year. This is more than the number of war-related refugees. Twenty-six million is, roughly, one person per second. To this figure, the displacements associated with slower degradation of the environment must be added. The difference is that for the time being, we do not see the victims because they live in distant countries where few of us have set foot and for the time being, these refugees do not reach our homes. Although we look at the list of countries: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Kiribati, Madagascar, The Maldives, Nepal, The Philippines, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Tanzania, East Timor, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and Vietnam. These countries are home to 700 million people who are already facing disasters and serious damage. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I think that can be said and verified with these figures, climate issues pose the same questions as the terrorist emergency! Let us not forget that these terrorist organisations, which are so topical, are also heavily dependent on oil resources. Creating a society less dependent on oil also means fighting terrorism and promoting the development of a society that accepts the challenge of climate change. If we look – my colleague Wouter De Vriendt knows the subject wonderfully – at Saudi Arabia's role in climate negotiations and if we link up with the stakes of terrorism and weapons, we also see that this role is problematic. Madam Minister, I invite you to read - before going to Paris - the contribution that Saudi Arabia has made to the United Nations, like all countries. For Belgium, it was Europe that took care of it. Saudi Arabia filed a document a few weeks ago, with two scenarios. Look at the cynicism behind this document that Saudi Arabia has tabled at the United Nations to reflect its climate commitments. As far as the first scenario is concerned, it is not complicated, business as usual: 430 million tonnes of CO2 for Saudi Arabia. You can imagine where that would lead us. In the second scenario, where cynicism is involved, Saudi Arabia says that if it is guaranteed its export-related oil revenues, if they are not altered by the Paris agreements, then it can agree to enter into a dynamic where it does not increase its greenhouse gas emissions. Imagine what thought these countries can have, which pose problems for us in the other dossiers. But, for us, everything is connected: behind this kind of attitude, there is a view of the world that we cannot share and the responsibilities of each other. If, unfortunately, current events turn our eyes away from the stakes of the climate, things remain fundamentally linked and the positions of the countries as well. I mentioned Saudi Arabia, I could also quote Qatar, whose contributions are just as problematic. I believe, on this basis, that we must declare a state of global climate emergency at the Paris Conference. And all the more so since the commitments that have already been returned, the sum of the commitments that have been deposited with the United Nations, lead us to a warming not of 2.7 degrees Celsius, which was the previous accounting: this is the latest accounting that takes into account certain commitments and not conditional commitments like those of Saudi Arabia, which foresees a warming of 3.5 degrees Celsius. This can be found in the UN document which has been tabled in committee and which will be attached to the report. This is very close to the disasters announced earlier, in the case of a warming of 4 degrees Celsius following the work of the IPCC. We're going into the wall and that's why I'm talking about a race against the clock. We have the impression here that we are fighting a "plain stage", and that we have all the time to move things. That's not the case. There is a real urgency. And this is true on a global level. Mr Thiéry, you will not blame me for having first developed this global situation and for drawing up the picture in which our work is based. It's not controversial. It is also relevant to do so because the current status of the Belgian newsletter is poor. With regard to the 2020 greenhouse gas targets, the European Union tells us that Belgium is one of the four countries that will not achieve these targets, such as Ireland, Austria and Luxembourg. Red card for Belgium in relation to this objective. The same applies to energy efficiency. We are also pointed out by Europe as one of the few countries not to achieve these objectives. On the other hand, as regards renewable energy, that should be the case. It must be said that we have come in the last few years as regards the height of renewable energy targets since the figures have been revised downwards. As you have had the decency to recall in an answer to a written question that I have addressed to you, Madam Minister, according to the IMF, Belgium spends ten billion dollars a year on fossil energy subsidies! We are in a difficult situation with regard to the climate issues and challenges facing us. We have to move! We must act and not simply remain on our previous positions. In the face of such a situation, one was entitled to expect a proactive, ambitious, climate-volunteerist resolution and not a position of expectation such as the one you described in one of the chapters, namely the tax on financial transactions. This position is also adopted in other chapters of the resolution. The original text was relatively weak. But – and I would like to thank you, Mr Thiéry, for this is too rare a fact in our work – you opened the door even before the presentation of your text by letting us know that we could work together. I acknowledge, without any problem, that you have played the game fully at the level of the recitals. I think I can say that 95 to 99 % of the amendments tabled have been taken into account, discussed and adopted or re-examined and finally adopted. I have rarely experienced this kind of situation that deserves to be highlighted. As we had made the same observation of the situation, I expected that we would be able to draw the same conclusions, in any case, on the important points. There is nothing different in the recitals, in particular because you have agreed to remind us that the objective is not to rejoice at the 2°C, while many countries, particularly the island countries which have been joined by others, have set themselves the target of 1.5°C. I don't know if you know the V20, the 20 most vulnerable countries from a climate point of view. It would be desirable for you to take the time to hear them because they have messages to convey. I read the numbers yesterday. They were able to convince 106 countries to set the 1.5°C target. Mr Thiéry, you will recall that this was one of the important subjects of our work, which prompted me to table amendments, in particular with Mrs Onkelinx. Members of this assembly must be aware that 106 countries wish to achieve the 1.5°C target. I hope that we will join them - we have not yet adopted the motion for a resolution - since historically we have always been in favour of this objective. When you meet the V20 – in any case, if so and if so, but you will let us know just now – it will be important to let them know that in our recitals, we have taken into account the fact that the 2°C target may not be sufficient. For the most vulnerable countries (Bangladesh, Tuvalu, etc.) ), for island countries that suffer enormously, the challenges will still be enormous. We have to be at their side, because it is often considered that we can go up to 2 degrees, while 1.5 degrees is probably the right reference that we should adopt. This opening was reflected in the recitals, in particular on the reference to 1.5 degrees, but not only since they also reflect the finding that we are at 3.5 degrees. The Committee of the Regions had also adopted objectives that were somewhat more ambitious than those set by the European Commission at the time. Moreover, Mr Thiéry, you have even agreed to include in the recitals that Belgium was pointed out by the European Commission as being late in achieving several objectives. That is to say whether, at the turn of this vote on the recitals, we felt mobilized for further work. We share some observations, but unfortunately we cannot convince you, at least for the moment, of the need to translate them operationally into the body of our motion for a resolution. Before it is too late, I would like to recall a statement by our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, dated 27 October, about COP21. After saying that our country supported the principle of a binding agreement – but that is not a problem between us – he said he was aware that, as we approach such a conference, the last few days were crucial to give the last impetus and to provide the last effort. Would I dare to try again in this rostrum – we are in the last days, the last hours and perhaps even the last minutes in relation to this text – to give a final shot of kidney necessary so that Belgium's mandate can simply be brought up to what it has always defended so far? I'll illustrate what I'm saying. A few minutes ago, we talked about the financial transaction tax. It's still amazing to go back in that respect! We talked about it when you were in the gallery. I am not going back to that, even though it is an extremely important part of my speech. I do not understand why you do not agree to simply align the text with what you adopted here less than two years ago, initially through enhanced cooperation. I wasn't at the time, but I was in favour of it. You don't want it anymore. We emptied that debate. On the question of supplementary funding, additional to the resources needed by Belgium and other countries for the Energy Transition Fund in developing countries. I would like to take some time, Madam Minister Thiéry, ladies and gentlemen, to plead in favour of the amendment that we have tabled on this subject. I do not have the number of the amendment, but this is the second in the package you received on your benches. Mr Thiéry, you told me, at the end of the committee, that it could still move. This is a discussion we had. Today, I feel it's more complicated. Nevertheless, we have tabled an amendment with figures. It's obvious. For this one, I know what's going on. You're probably not going to vote. So I won't spend too much time defending him. We did it in committee. The amendment on which I wanted to spend some time with you is the one which speaks only of the principle and not of the figures, not of the 50 million or 250 million. This is the principle that what Belgium will give to the Green Fund, the financing of transition in developing countries, is additional, additional funding. I am informed by the rapporteur that this is Amendment No 168. Mr rapporteur, you have been very helpful throughout the proceedings and I thank you for your attention. We have a long tradition of working together on the benches of parliament. I therefore come back to the substance of the amendment. You have him in front of you, Mr. Thiéry. This amendment calls for a commitment that contributions to the financial solidarity mechanism should be additional and complementary to official development assistance. He's not asking for an amount. It defines a principle. On this principle, I have hard to believe that you could not agree. Why? Because I found the text of Charles Michel's speech. I will quote from what he says: "It is essential, in order to maintain the level of Belgium's commitments, that the means that will be mobilised to deal with climate change to the developing countries affected by these changes be additional means to 0.7 per cent. I feel the temptation of some to recycle the means for development cooperation by saying "carp, I baptize you rabbit". It was money for development cooperation. Tomorrow, it will also be called means to combat climate change. This notion of additional resources is crucial to me. I plead that this should be the position of the Belgian Government and of Europe." Our amendment merely takes up this position, which Charles Michel argued for. On that, could we not try to agree that Charles Michel is right? For once, let us all agree that he is right! I go on to quote: "Since it is mainly the developing countries that will be affected by climate change, since the Western countries will suffer a series of significant economic impacts, the means to combat these changes will have to be additional to the cooperation budget." These are the words of Charles Michel, don't flout that kind of talk! Do not reject the amendment! He only translates what Charles Michel defended! I am continuing, because it was good, and if ever it remains, this amendment can be translated and adopted: "I hear here and there saying that the Copenhagen agreement will not cost much, since some are about to recycle resources already promised to cooperation. It's not right. It is a matter of common sense and voluntarism. If a few think they can recycle a few tens of millions of euros from cooperation towards supporting climate change policy in developing countries, it will be no." It will be no: these are the words of Charles Michel. And he concludes by saying: "My message is: the means to combat global warming in developing countries must be added to the development cooperation budget. If this is a high priority of the international community, we cannot simply divert the resources affected." Now, the time I wanted to take to justify my amendment was actually a time spent reading a statement by Charles Michel. Mr Thiéry, Madam Minister, on the basis of these arguments which I did not have at length and in large in committee but which I provide you with in response to your request, I do not understand how you can continue to refuse that the very principle is the addition of means. If Charles Michel can't convince you, how can we make further progress in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u129	If you ask me to make a gesture to quote Charles Michel more, I will. But on condition that you accept the amendment. Not the one with the amounts, which I understand you had to discuss. But Mr Thiéry, in principle, is there no way to send a signal at the time of the vote on this amendment? I'll let you think about it. We will have a few more minutes before the vote. On this amendment, I hope that there is a way to move. I would like to quote a second one that concerns you in particular, Madam Minister. As you said earlier, the three rapporteurs recalled, we worked properly in committee. We've been working on the bottom. Many amendments have been tabled. I'm not going back to that, they're right. However, colleagues who have worked with us will recall that we have tabled an amendment saying that we cannot wait until 2020 to enhance previous commitments. Mr Thiéry, you see what debate I am referring to. We proposed 2018. I've been working on the amendment a little bit, but I don't have the number in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u130	Number 174.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u131	Mr. Senesael works day and night. Minister, you will remember coming at the beginning of our committee work. You read a text that you then forwarded to us. I've read that text again. I quote from the Minister's remarks at the time: "Belgium will plead for urgent action (pre-2020) to close the gap between current emission trends and the two-degree target path". Minister, do you remember? This amendment No. 174 merely repeats the Minister's sentence. We're forgetting 2018. I think on this point, Madam Minister, if you still have an influence on the groups of the majority, if you accept this sentence, I withdraw my amendment that speaks to 2018. It's obvious. But this amendment, it seems to me, should not be a problem for you. I take a sentence from the minister as it is. It's almost even better than a phrase from Charles Michel, almost. Take the time to think about it. It's not too late for kidney attacks to be given. I now come back to elements that will probably create more divergences between us. According to the findings, we are heading straight into the wall. However, in view of the proposed measures, we are less than we should be able to do in order to limit the temperature rise to 2° Celsius. Therefore, I do not understand the lack of consistency between our findings and the solutions we are pursuing. Upgrading the objectives is essential and must be done immediately. To this end, we have tabled amendments. It is important that the tax on the financial transaction be adopted, regardless of whether or not an agreement of the 28 is reached. We must be able to move forward. The means must be additional. Environmental social clauses are needed. A 100% renewable energy target must be set. We avoided the worst, because your proposal was for the year 2100. Last night, the French National Assembly adopted France's mandate in relation to COP21. In the text adopted yesterday in France, the target of 100% renewable energy was taken up for 2050. France is much more dependent on nuclear energy than we are. These provisions are contained in their text. Mr Thiéry, you say that your initial amendment concerns the year 2100 and that the final amendment sets a target of 100%. We believe that this resolution, as it emerges from the work, is, unfortunately, totally inadequate. This resolution is not up to the stakes. This resolution confirms the climate-attentism of the government and the majority. I prefer the term apathetic to the word attentist that you used earlier. But in the face of challenges, we must do better. Contrary to what some think, it is not the Earth, it is not the planet that is in danger, it is humanity. The Earth has seen others. But a planet at more than 3.5 or more 4° Celsius is invivable to man. I hope that we will not have to wait until the North Sea arrives in Bruges or at the gates of Brussels for you, in the majority, to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u132	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Sunday will open in Paris COP21 for the climate. J-4. Belgium must indeed have a strong and ambitious position in the fight against global warming at Belgian, European and international level. Indeed, a climate agreement is essential and we must, together, contribute to a comprehensive and binding agreement. As the French Foreign Minister says, the Paris Conference must be a turning point. The resolution that needs to be taken today must be strong at the level of parliament. That was Mr Thiéry's objective at first: to reach agreement on a strong resolution. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. At national level, for us at the CDH, it is essential to reach agreement first on burden sharing and on the four dossiers under negotiation, i.e. the allocation of effort in reducing CO2 emissions, the objective of renewable energy, the contribution to international financing and the allocation of revenue from the sale of CO2 allowances. Today it is deplorable that the agreement reached four weeks ago between the four climate ministers could not be endorsed because of a "technical" mistake made by the Federal Minister. Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether, indeed, we could benefit from this letter from the European Commission informing you that the interconnections and the Coo power plant cannot be integrated into the federal share of renewable energy. Minister, let us recall that at the time you made commitments to our country. Obviously, you've been crocheted in this situation. This is regrettable because we were then going to Paris with a clear and ambitious objective. We are discussing here, in Parliament, on the basis of a resolution that wants to give the government objectives. We absolutely want to be assured that the four ministers currently have a clear mandate from their government and will not once again be destabilized, rejected or undressed by their government. It is very urgent to reach an intra-Belgian agreement. And it is deplorable that this resolution that will be voted on today, in J-4, must again address the problem of burden sharing and our intra-Belgian agreement. We have talked a lot about international climate finance. Belgium cannot be put in default again, Mr Thiéry. Let us remember, at the international climate conference held in Lima last December, Belgium had already been pointed out for its lack of responsiveness in announcing international financial commitments. We cannot repeat the exercise. As you know, on 10 November, the European Ecofin Council took a decision on European funding. Belgium was due to return its contribution to international climate finance to the European Commission a month ago. She didn't. We will therefore be individual donors and we will not contribute on behalf of the European Union. It is a handicap to maintain the credibility of our country. The issue of international financing is, however, a crucial issue for the conclusion of an agreement in Paris, because it is not to be hoped that such an agreement will be reached with the developing countries if the target of 100 billion international financing pledged for 2020 is not guaranteed. There will be no agreement, as everyone sounds the alarm about the importance of this agreement. In addition, the issue of the quality of funding is important. Indeed, let us remember that the OECD allows states to use Rio Marketers in financing development cooperation. As a result, climate finance is counted twice: once in climate aid and another in development cooperation. However, this mechanism has never been discussed or approved within UNCC. Thus, while the federal government had announced climate aid of 96 million in 2014, 95 million were recycled in the development cooperation sector. With regard to the federal contribution for this year, there is, to date, the promise of the 10 million that should be allocated to the Green Climate Fund - let us recall, that goes back to the Lima Summit - and the money from the Development Cooperation budget. Will the federal government make a commitment for next year and until 2020? We have always received no indication. It is therefore essential for us to respect the rules and to insist on new and additional Belgian and European climate financing. You and I have drawn up a lot of amendments in committee. Moreover, when we look at the text given to us by the services, we can see that many articles are highlighted. This shows the way we worked. Amendments have been adopted, I agree. However, when it came to taking a small step, it was difficult to vote for decisive amendments. Above all, one of them seems unacceptable to me. It aims to ensure that the Belgian contribution amounts to EUR 50 million to be allocated annually between the Federal State and the federated entities. This demand is unacceptable because it sets a maximum ceiling, not a minimum to be reached. We wanted a minimum ambition for Belgium. We didn't even get it. This is an indication of your majority's lack of ambition in the fight against global warming. Furthermore, our repeated request to make it clear, through this motion for a resolution, that Belgian funding must be of additional quality has by no means been heard by the majority. As I was telling you, whenever it was necessary to make a commitment, we stumbled. We can question the value of the motion for a resolution, while the European mandate for the Paris negotiations was adopted at a European Environment Council in September and the important lever that remains to be used at Belgian level is that of financing. This motion for a resolution, which you are presenting to us today and which we have discussed at length, calls on the government not to be ambitious. Indeed, we are below what we have already accepted in the past. The resolution as it is to be voted on tonight is that the government should deploy the necessary resources to reach an ambitious agreement with the developing countries in Paris. It is obviously inconceivable for us to vote for such provisions. This is worse than giving up, and one might wonder whether it is not an act of sabotage aimed at undermining the defence of a strong Belgian position in the fight against global warming. At the international level, we have tabled two amendments which I will present concerning adaptation to climate change. Mr. Thiéry, let us remember an episode. I have tabled a fairly comprehensive amendment on adaptation to climate change. The discussion is beginning and we feel that we are going to go towards a refusal, until I ask the minister's representative, who, peremptoryly, says, "it is essential to talk about adaptation". You agreed to use the word "adaptation", but there were other ways to do so, including by proposing to actively support the development of comprehensive adaptation plans in developing countries, taking into account the practices of local actors and the knowledge of indigenous peoples. The next proposal was to advocate for a global goal of adaptation to climate change and its financing in the Paris Agreement. Also plead for commitments to deepen approaches to effectively deal with loss and damage, to implement regional adaptation strategies. Also plead for adaptation assistance and loss and damage to be at the heart of the Paris Agreement and for developing countries to receive effective support for their transition to sustainable, renewable, low-CO2 forms of energy so as to ensure that their adaptation needs will be met both in the short and long term. Mr Thiéry, I shall repeat this amendment. Why? Because I am committed to it; it was more complete than the sentence you mentioned and because a policy of adaptation is indispensable. This amendment is identical to the adaptation part of the resolution adopted in October in the European Parliament and which, in particular, the Members of the European Parliament of the parties which make up this majority voted. By this resolution you will therefore be below what has already been voted on in the past, but also below what has been voted on by the European Parliament, with some Members of the European Parliament who are well known to the parties of the majority here. Where is coherence? You are below what has been adopted in the European Parliament. Admit it's surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u133	In support of what Mr de Lamotte says on this issue of adaptation, Mr Thiéry, you will recall our discussions on the correctness of the word "adaptation" and on how to integrate it. The famous text that the minister sent us after her speech, which in fact repeated her speech in committee, says: "Belgium is campaigning within the framework of the European mandate for political parity between mitigation and adaptation", 50-50. When we remember the debates we had in committee, we are far from it. It would also have been possible to use the wording of the Minister, which is Belgium's position, as it stands. That is what is problematic. In support of what my colleague has said, the work has started well on the recitals and we are going back to what Belgium defended not later than at the beginning of our work, when the minister recalled these elements. I do not understand that this is a position that I did not defend at the time because we had to go further, but which was the position of the minister. I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u134	Mr Nollet, who do you think is drawing the line in this government? Who, do you think, is preventing the march? You lived it like I did in this commission. As soon as it was about having a little ambition, being a little forward-looking, going towards the future, clapp, it falls: "It is not possible". You will understand, as I do, that it is not called the butterfly effect but the N-VA effect. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u135	Since you're asking me the question, I'd like to answer it. You think it's the N-VA. I can only confirm this in the current state, but I remain optimistic. I recall the Prime Minister's words: it is in the last few moments that things can still evolve. If what you are saying is right and relevant – and I confirm it since I am basing myself on what the minister said at the beginning of the commission's work – perhaps we will see that one or the other of the amendments, not all of them, which adjust to the minister's remarks, can be adopted in a few moments. I know the role of scalpel and cutet that the N-VA was able to play in the commission, but I hope that we can, at the very least, put the text back to what the minister said at the beginning of the work. I hope no more unfortunately, but at least that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u136	For my part, I hope that at some point the majority will try to be consistent and that it will succeed in order to be able to reframe the whole discussion and have a real ambition for COP21 in Paris. Another key element at the international level is the fight against deforestation. I take this example again, because we have referred to the elements in committee. For us, this is a problem that must be present in the resolution. I therefore repeat the CDH amendment calling on the government to urge the European Union to pursue its goal of ending the decline in global forest cover by 2030 and reducing the rate of tropical deforestation by at least half by 2020 compared to 2008 levels, to urge the European Union to increase international funding for reducing deforestation in developing countries and to ensure that the European Commission proposes strong measures to prevent the import into the Union of products derived from illegal deforestation. There are resolutions on this subject in this Parliament. In the course of our work, Mr Thiéry, you did not agree with the draft amendment, the wording of which you thought was too negative. You said that we should insist on reforestation rather than deforestation. But this situation is currently disastrous. Mass deforestation is negative. I cannot imagine that my colleagues in the majority consider that reforestation can alleviate the disaster caused by the destruction of primary forests in terms of biodiversity. This second amendment, which I tabled with my group, reflects exactly the same wording as the motion for a resolution adopted in the European Parliament and voted in particular by the members of the MR, the CD&V, the N-VA and the Open Vld. In view of this, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to return to this text and to be consistent. It is this incoherence, this lack of ambition that is annoying. In conclusion, because I have been at the core, and we have seen what message I wanted to convey, I would like to tell you, Mr Thiéry, since you are the main author of this motion for a resolution, and more broadly to the members of the majority, than you do not give the federal government a clear and ambitious mandate through this resolution. It lacks ambitious targets for combating global warming, reducing emissions, adapting and financing. For example, no date is set for the 100% renewable energy target and the 2030 targets are not increased. There is no long-term objective of greenhouse gas emissions neutrality. I could move on with that, too, but let's stay there! In the current state of affairs, we will not vote on this motion for a resolution, even if the Prime Minister calls for a shudder, because it is a step backwards from the mandate previously given to the federal government and a step backwards from the text voted by all parties with a large majority in the European Parliament just a month ago. The government is asleep, Mr. Brotcorne. Mr. Thiéry, throughout this analysis of the resolution, you were on probation. That's what happened. I understand you're frustrated. You would have wanted to go further. But as I told you, the N-VA has set the line. You wanted your resolution to be remembered. But you have been restrained and prevented from going further by a partner of your majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u137	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the final discussion of the resolution. I don't know what the latter has resolved, but, in any case, there is a certain ambition of the government parties that agree that global warming is a bad thing – so far we agree – and that something should be done. But to the question of what to do, no answer is given! In my opinion, it is time to agree on a few observations. I won't be too long because I'd like to go to the essentials. First of all, the seriousness of the situation must be seen. There's an emergency. This is not just a political issue, but a sober analysis of the situation we are facing today. The IPCC is clear: if we do not reduce CO2 production by 85% by 2050, we must expect major global disasters. Who will be the first victims of these disasters? Those of our planet that are the least rich, namely the peoples of the South who will not have the means to build dams, to protect themselves from the cataclysms resulting from global warming. In the countries of the North too, as seen with Hurricane Katrina. Who was the first victim of this hurricane? It was the populations in the United States of America that had the least money and were in flood areas. People who had money could have gone to shelter. They could move and rebuild their own home. The social issue is essential in the analysis of global warming. The problem is that in the resolution presented today in Belgium, there are few objectives and few constraints. The far-reaching 2050 target (85 per cent less) has been added, but as for the question of how we are going to achieve this, there is no obligation to achieve results in this resolution. This kind of resolution has been in place for 20-25 years. It has been 20-25 years and these resolutions do not respond to the climate emergency, the social emergency that is needed to resolve this important issue. That is the main reason why our party, the PTB, will not support the resolution submitted today. A second important point that prevents us from agreeing with the resolution is that we believe that the problem will be solved with market mechanisms; the deep belief that the market, with supply and demand, will be able to change our economy so that we can find solutions to climate change. This dogma of believing that within the framework of the market economy we will succeed, even CO2 quotas have become a commodity for sale. This was already the problem that the economy as a whole was only thinking about making money, and we didn't care about the climate, but here even CO2 quotas become a commodity for sale. We have even seen a group like Arcelor-Mittal, of which it cannot be said that it is a haven of environmental politics, making money by selling CO2 quotas. European countries are allowed to buy or sell quotas only on the basis of supply and demand. This leads to an incredible situation that, with the economic crisis and a change in the balance of supply and demand, the price of the CO2 quota decreases. We cannot continue to trust the market economy to solve our problems. I share this analysis with Canadian author Naomi Klein. Mr Thiéry, Minister, I advise you to read this excellent book. It demonstrates by a+b that the problem of ecological policy on our planet is linked to capitalist modes of production. It describes how the pursuit of profit at all costs leads to an economic policy irreconcilable with the preservation of our nature. At the time, people said it was the price of oil that would solve the problem. As there is less and less oil, the price will rise and, of course, our economy will use less fossil fuels. On the contrary, it has been found that the fact that oil, which is easily accessible, is becoming increasingly expensive has allowed companies that seek only profit to seek fossil fuels that are more expensive to extract. That's how we've been looking for the bituminous sand. As long as there is a way to make money, these companies will continue to look for increasingly polluting products. It's the same with shale gas. CH4 is four times more harmful to the greenhouse effect than CO2. There is a five-fold production of methane by shale gas production. Today, supply and demand make all fossil fuels competitive. As long as we remain in this context of competitiveness, of business as usual, we will not be able to take the measures that can bring our climate policy down to 85% by 2050. You'll ask me what solutions I propose. I have already said that we cannot count on the few companies in our country that own and control 80% of energy production. Four companies! I will quote them: Electrabel, EDF Luminus, ENI, RWE. Four multinational companies control 85% of energy production! Never in the history of humanity had such a concentration of economic powers in a society. Minister, as long as you talk to these companies and ask them to invest a little bit in renewable energy, we'll never make it. Because these societies have a monopoly, an oligopoly of energy production as we have never seen in the history of humanity and have no interest in ensuring this energy transition. That is why, and we have already said on several occasions here, it is time and even urgent to return to the construction of another economy, to reflect outside the framework of capitalist thought and to be able to set up economic planning where the public authorities can force the massive investments necessary for the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u138	There's some records. I guess you read them in detail, which I did for my part. You know that Naomi Klein does not argue for a planned economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u139	She's talking about economic planning...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u140	It advocates, in a market economy, for planning, regulation but not for a communist-type economy. We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u141	That's right. She's talking about economic planning. And the debate can be quite valid. But in the last 20 to 25 years in Belgium, energy production has not been much planned. And, if we were trying to plan it a little bit, it would be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u142	Plan, yes. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u143	Planning, because regulating is something else. If you agree to plan our energy production... In Belgium, we haven't planned much in twenty-five years, but on the contrary! There is a private-type non-planning at Electrabel. If I hear that the Socialist Party wants to call itself into question on this issue, I'm a "chickball"!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u144	(...) As a general rule, we know, since we live in democracy, that we are not always right on our own. There is a consensus to have, which you sometimes seem to forget in your great flights. For the rest, Naomi Klein does not plead for communist-type economies, but for regulation, which I agree with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u145	"Chaud bouillette" or Mr Hedebouw is in the gallery and talks about the four major companies that control the entire energy sector in Belgium. I feel like you're confusing energy and electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u146	No, I was talking about electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u147	At the moment, we are debating energy in general. I have intervened to ensure that the translators and the services of the record are not misled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u148	Mr President, with a lot of fun I hear Mr Hedebouw do us the apology of the planned economy. I know that his model, at the international level, is China – to such an extent that the PTB was the only group last week not to call for dialogue between Taiwan and China. I remind him that today, the latter is the first country to emit carbon and that it is not close to stopping. It's still fun!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u149	Mr Dallemagne, I don't see what you're coming with when you talk about Taiwan! In response to your last comment, I would say that you have expressed the vision of someone who lives in the West and the North. You dare say that China is the first producer in this field. But there is a responsibility of the countries of the North vis-à-vis the developing countries of the South. The amount of carbon produced per capita in the countries of the South and China is far less than our emissions. Your logic is to say that the Chinese are 1.2 billion and that they are therefore the largest producers. It is this vision that will be debated in Paris next week. The countries of the North should be more humble - and our goal is to achieve a global ecological democracy - because, per capita, the peoples of the North, the United States and Europe, produce much more than those of the South. Instead, you should think about how to help those countries that are suffering at the moment and that have to face the challenge of developing industrialization without causing pollution similar to what we have produced in Western Europe. Mr Nollet is quite right to stress that the funds we allocate to them must be increased and that these countries need our help and technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u150	Mr President, I advise Mr Hedebouw to review his geography: China is not a country of the South! Or the Earth is flat! On the other hand, I confirm that when you scratch China, you get into the towers. Finally, following your reasoning, if we had to wait for it to emit as much carbon per capita as the rest of the world to make decisions, it would simply be catastrophic. That is why what you support is completely irresponsible. Today, all countries, and certainly China, have an interest in taking urgent action and implementing radical policies in terms of carbon emissions. You should tell his representatives without delay, you who have a special line with them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u151	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Dallemagne. We can't accept everything. If you look at most of the scientific analyses related to carbon production in China, but also at all the environmental damage it has done, you will see that this is not a demographic issue, but a general policy issue. I'm finding out right now that after crypto-communism, there's carbo-communism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u152	Mr. President, even when you have fun, you have to be fair. I think that on one point, in any case, we must accept that we cannot judge China simply on an overall volume, but on a per capita basis. Everyone must agree to take this step. The Chinese or other "model" does not mean anything, but quite rightly, Vanuatu cannot be compared with China. On the other hand, we must admit that China has recently taken attitudes on climate issues that change its position in relation to Kyoto, where it was completely out of the game, but which commit it more seriously than some of our countries on greenhouse gas reductions. The agreement that François Hollande signed in China, no later than a month ago, is the first bilateral agreement that provides for a re-evaluation every five years. Since then, we have not negotiated in the same way, whereas in Bonn it is still a point that was in parentheses. From there to say that the Chinese model is the right model, certainly not! I would like to see a more balanced approach to the measures taken and the agreements reached there. This does not remove anything from the past, including pollution. But living in Beijing with breathing difficulties, as is the case at the moment, makes the Chinese think more than they think. Unfortunately, we should be able to act before we are subjected to pollution, as is the case in Beijing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u153	Anyway, China is not my model, Mr. Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u154	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u155	When I was talking about the countries of the South, I was thinking about the developing countries. It will be one of the stakes from Sunday night. I really think that the basis of our solidarity is precisely the responsibility we have. All countries, from Africa, Asia and Latin America, are facing a transition to an industrial phase without producing as much pollution as we have produced. That is why we must help them, and that is why I am criticizing the current government because it does not. Mrs Onkelinx, I agree with you on the need for a debate on planning. I simply find that the previous privatisations, particularly in public enterprises where energy was produced, as in Liège, from hydropower, were mistakes. This has taken us away from production capacity and direct planning. It is this debate that we must be able to reopen in Belgium. Mr President, I repeat my speech where I interrupted it. In the next two weeks, unfortunately, we will have a summit that will not live up to expectations. We would have liked to have a summit that would lead to binding standards in terms of CO2 production but also in terms of aid to the countries of the South. Fifty million is a minimum. It must not be a ceiling as it is set today. We must be able to give the countries of the South much more because they will not be able to revive their economies without the technologies needed for low-carbon production. That's impossible. They don't have that scientific knowledge we've monopolized. That must be the basis of our help. The issue will be discussed next Tuesday and Wednesday. Will the richest countries in the world be able to help these countries achieve this transition, not only for them but also for us? Because the issue of climate is essential for humanity and especially for the world's poorest people who are the first victims of climate change? We will not support the majority resolution. I did not feel Mr Thiéry making much effort in committee in line with our very constructive amendments. We have reintroduced them, we never know! This may not be possible in Brussels, but we will be demonstrating in the streets of Ostend on 6 December to urge all decision-makers around the world to take urgent action for the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u156	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u157	• 158 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (1364/11) Punt/Point 1.g (n) • 159 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (1364/11) Point/Point 1.h (n) • 160 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (1364/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u158	• 161 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (1364/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u159	Punt/Point 2.j • 154 - Karin Temmerman cs (1364/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u160	Point/Point 3.z3 (n) • 156 - Karin Temmerman cs (1364/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u161	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u162	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u163	I have received an amendment to the draft law transposing Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC, No. 1444/1. I propose that this amendment be sent back to the Committee on Trade and Economic Law in order to discuss this technical amendment. I have received an amendment on the draft law transposing Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC, No 1444/1. I propose that you refer this amendment to the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law to discuss this technical amendment. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u164	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Jules Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Sébastian Pirlot, Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mr Eric Thiébaut and Mr Daniel Senesael) on the tasks of defence in the preservation of the memory and development of the sense of citizenship, No. 1474/1. Sent to the Defence Committee - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Ms Sonja Becq) amending the law of 19 October 2015 amending civil procedural law and laying down various provisions on justice relating to the status of urgent cases entered on the role of the family court, No. 1476/1. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the legislation relating to the electronic performance of documents outside the opening hours of the Registry, No. 1477/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u165	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I also propose that you take into account - the motion for a resolution (Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Sebastian Pirlot, Stéphane Crusnière, Eric Thiébaut and Daniel Senesael) on National Defence missions in memory work and citizenship development, No. 1474/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u166	- the bill (Mr. Raf Terwingen and Ms. Sonja Becq) amending, with regard to the status of urgent cases in the role of the family court, the Act of 19 October 2015 amending the law of civil procedure and laying down various provisions in the field of justice, No. 1476/1. - the draft law (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) amending the legislation with regard to the electronic performance of acts outside the opening hours of the Registry, No. 1477/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u167	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u168	Mr President, for the last two proposals (No. 1476/1 and 1477/1) to which you refer, I would like to ask the urgency. These two proposals are also included in the list of draft laws which the government submitted to the Conference of Presidents last Wednesday, in addition to proposals. The first bill is about the following. We have recently adopted the so-called potpourri 1 Law on Justice. Now there is an interpretation problem with files with a permanent saisine. There is a discussion as to whether or not the provision of advice would be mandatory, which is clearly not the intention. Since that law will enter into force on 1 January and that discussion of interpretation is best removed, we call for urgent consideration. The second legislative proposal is a proposal by Mr Becq and concerns the electronic transmission of documents. At present, documents, e.g. an appeal certificate, must be lodged with the Registry within the Registry hours. It is also provided for in the Judicial Code. However, if we allow decisions or appeals to be filed electronically, it goes without saying that their submission should not be bound by the opening hours of the Registry. The relevant law shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. We therefore request an amendment before that date. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u169	Mr President, these are texts from the famous list of texts announced by this government. I note that more than 20 texts have not yet been tabled. But I guess we'll be doing the same kind of pirouette again in the next few weeks. Having said that, I would now like to stress one point. Indeed, the two texts for which you are asking for urgency are, in fact, two bills aimed at repairing texts that have been voted on very recently, for which the government had asked for urgency and for which it had wanted the work of the parliament to be carried out at an unbridled pace. Mr. Chair, looking at proposals to repair legislation that has not yet come into force clearly demonstrates the inconvenient way in which the government works in legislative matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u170	I agree, in principle and in substance, with what Mrs Fonck has just said. But, on the other hand, I would like to thank Mr Verherstraeten, who once was not the custom of the majority and the government, justified the urgency. We will not necessarily agree on the substance, but, since there has been a serious justification for the urgency and it is linked to an entry into force on 1 January 2016, we understand that it should be considered as a matter of priority and we will not oppose this urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u171	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I propose that a temporary committee be set up to combat terrorism. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 November 2015, I propose that you set up a temporary committee on combating terrorism. I propose that the temporary committee be composed of 17 permanent members and an equal number of alternates plus one unit, in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: I propose that the temporary committee be composed of 17 actual members and an equal number of alternates increased by one unit, in accordance with the proportional representation system. The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: - N-VA: 4 - PS: 3 - MR: 3 - CD&V: 2 - Open Vld: 2 - sp.a: 1 - Ecolo-Green: 1 - cdH: 1. The other political groups may each appoint one member who, without the right to vote, participates in the work of the temporary committee. The other political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the temporary committee. Are you sure you don't mind? It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: - N-VA: permanent members/ effectifs: Koen Metsu, Sophie De Wit, Peter Buysrogge, Sarah Smeyers alternates/ suppliers: Conseil Degroote, Peter De Roover, Valerie Van Peel, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Renate Hufkens - PS:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. permanent members/ staff: Laurette Onkelinx, Willy Demeyer, Stéphane Crusnière alternates/ alternates: André Frédéric, Emir Kir, Eric Thiébaut, Eric Massin - MR: permanent members/ staff: Philippe Pivin, Françoise Schepmans, Denis Ducrame alternates/ alternates: Gautier Calomne, Richard Miller, Emmanuel Burton, Jean-Jacques Flahaux - CD&V permanent members/ effectifs: Raf Terwingen, Veli Yüksel alternates/ supplies: Franky Demon, Roel Deseyn, and a further name. - Open Vld permanent members/ effectifs: Patrick Dewael, Carina Van Cauter alternates/ supplies: Katja Gabriels, Dirk Van Mechelen, Dirk Janssens - sp.a. fixed member / Actual: Hans Bonte alternates/ suppléants: Meryame Kitir, Alain Top - Ecolo-Green fixed member / effectif: Stefaan Van Hecke alternates/ alternate: Benoit Hellings, Gilles Vanden Burre - cdH fixed member / Actual: Georges Dallemagne alternates/ alternates: Catherine Fonck and another name that will be given to me in a few moments. Members without voting rights / Membres sans droit de vote: Filip Dewinter (VB), Olivier Maingain (DéFI), Aldo Carcaci (PP), Raoul Hedebouw (PTB-GO!). Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I will install the temporary committee immediately after the plenary session. The meeting will take place in the Europe room. I will set up the temporary committee directly after the plenary session. The meeting will be held at the European Hall.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u172	The Government has requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law on various financial provisions setting up an administrative service with accounting autonomy "Social activities" and laying down a provision on equality between women and men (No. 1459/1). The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various financial provisions, establishing an administrative unit with autonomous accounting "Social activities", and laying down a provision on the equality of women and men (No. 1459/1). I give the floor to Secretary of State Sleurs to explain the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u173	Mr President, the government is indeed asking for urgent treatment, since it is about adapting and transposing European directives into Belgian law, namely the Banking Act. This is urgently needed, because otherwise Belgium would not be in good shape with the provisions on governance and would be failing by the European Commission. The government therefore calls for urgent consideration of the draft law on the relevant European directives, which must be transposed by 31 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u174	We are voting on the urgency of sitting and getting up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u175	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 18 November 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 18 November 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 075/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Ms. Anne Dedry; A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Renate Hufkens and Mr. Luc Gustin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 075/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Luc Gustin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u176	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u177	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 18 November 2015. This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 18 November 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 079/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr David Clarinval, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mr Jan Spooren, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Stefaan Vercamer. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 079/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and by Messrs. David Clarinval, Egbert Lachaert, Jan Spooren, Vincent Van Quickenborne et Stefaan Vercamer. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u178	Mr President, in committee I have tried to adjust the ambition of the Minister for Employment. The problem is not unknown to you. In five years' time, a third of the reception parents have stopped. The biggest reason was their wretched status. They were promised a full statute by 2006, but that is still not there. The current statute has limited social protection, no unemployment benefit, no holiday allowance, no year-end premium and you name it. A single reception parent can't even get a loan from the bank because he or she officially doesn't receive a wage, but a remuneration. All these things need to be eliminated as soon as possible. Many Members of this House shared their concerns in committee when I interspersed with the Minister on this issue. His ambition was not great; he hoped to obtain a full statute by the end of the legislature. With this motion of recommendation, we would like to support the Minister in doing so as quickly as possible, because the need for childcare is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u179	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 89 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1430/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1430/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1131/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1131/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1306/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1306/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1307/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1307/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1311/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1311/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1329/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1329/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u186	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 83 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1149/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1149/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u187	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (1446/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (1446/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u188	Mr President, my vote has not been taken into account in the past vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u189	Vote on Amendment No 157 of Raoul Hedebouw cs at point 1.a. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 157 by Raoul Hedebouw cs. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 13 Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 168 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.d' (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 168 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 1.d' (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 169 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs at point 1.e. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 169 by van Jean-Marc Nollet cs in point 1.e. (1364/11) May be The result of the previous vote also applies to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u190	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 166 by Daniel Senesael cs at point 1.e. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 166 by Daniel Senesael cs. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 52 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 170 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs at point 1.e. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No. 170 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[43]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 158 of Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.f (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 158 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.f (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 134 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 159 of Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.g (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 159 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.g (n). (1364/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u191	Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 159, I do not understand why the PTB is not talking about shipping. It would be interesting for the members who were not present at the committee to know that for the long distances one does not talk about the boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u192	Mrs Onkelinx, the Rules of Procedure provide that we can no longer have a discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u193	Mr Hedebouw, I would have liked to vote in favour, but you have forgotten this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u194	It's too late! Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 160 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.h (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 160 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.h (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 33 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr. Cheron abstained. Mrs Pelhivan and Mr Blanchart voted against. Vote on Amendment No 161 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.i (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 161 of Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 1.i (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Has everyone voted and checked? n vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on Amendment No 162 by Raoul Hedebouw cs. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 162 from Raoul Hedebouw cs at point 2.a. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 133 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 163 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 2.a/1. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 163 of Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert a point 2.a/1. (1364/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u195	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 153 by Karin Temmerman cs. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 153 from Karin Temmerman cs at point 2.c. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 53 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 171 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 171 from Jean-Marc Nollet cs at point 2.c. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 52 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 154 by Karin Temmerman cs at point 2.j. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 154 by Karin Temmerman cs. (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u196	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 172 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert point 2.m (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 172 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 2.m (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 173 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert point 2.n (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 173 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 2.n (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 52 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 167 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert point 3.a' (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 167 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 3.a' (n). (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u197	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 174 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert point 3.b' (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 174 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 3.b' (n). (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u198	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 175 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on article 3.c. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 175 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 3.c. (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u199	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 176 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs on Article 3.d. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 176 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to Article 3.d. (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u200	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 155 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 3.e. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 155 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 3.e. (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u201	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 177 of Georges Gilkinet cs on article 3.g. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 177 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 3.g. (1364/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u202	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 165 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 3.o. (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 165 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 3.o. (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 156 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert point 3.z3 (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 156 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert a point 3.z3 (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 50 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 164 by Michel de Lamotte to insert point 3.z.3 (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 164 by Michel de Lamotte to insert a point 3.z.3 (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 178 of Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert point 3z3' (n). (1364/11) Vote on Amendment No 178 by Jean-Marc Nollet cs to insert a point 3z3' (n). (1364/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Devin, you voted in favour. Mr Beke, you voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a statement which cannot exceed two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u204	Mr President, it will not take me two minutes to see that, even when we propose amendments whose texts are extracted from the Prime Minister's and the Minister's proposals, they are rejected. This is proof that this government and this majority are hypocritical of the climate issue. We will therefore not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u205	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1364/12) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1364/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-26-54-plenair-ip083x.u206	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 3 December 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 3 December 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Those involved must go to the Europe Room for the installation of the Terrorism Committee. Those concerned must go to the European Hall for the installation of the "Terrorism" commission. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 December 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 3 December 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
