ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u1	Colleagues, the committee meeting is due to end at 12.30 p.m. I therefore suggest that you start on time and respect the speaking time allocated to oral questions, answers and replies. This applies to everyone and to me too, therefore!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u2	Madam Minister, my question about the Emergency Medical Assistance Fund is in line with a debate we have been having for a long time, including with the ambulance services, both on urgent and non-urgent medical transport. The purpose of the fund was, on the basis of the 1964 Law, to cover unpaid fees or invoices. A third was financed by the government and two thirds by the insurance companies. The fund would have a deficit of EUR 200 000 to EUR 250 000. This would seem to be the case for both 2015 and 2014. Madam Secretary, are you aware of this? Will efforts be made to deal with this deficit through budgetary control? What is the state of play today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u3	Indeed, Mrs Muylle, the Emergency Medical Assistance Fund intervenes when the beneficiary of the aid fails to pay his invoices. It does not need to be said that the fund is increasingly being questioned by the services in urgent medical care, as they are also more affected by defaults lately. For the 2014 budget year, a budget of EUR 479 000 for the Fund was foreseen within the general expenditure budget and was also paid out. For the 2015 budget year, a further EUR 479 000 was entered, but you know that we are carrying out a 20% savings round on expenditure. The savings round has also hit that budget line. In view of the importance of this fund, we have made the most of the savings, but we have not succeeded in doing so. Currently, an amount of EUR 459 000 is foreseen for the 2015 budget year. So that's EUR 20 000 less than originally. The accounts of the Fund for the 2014 working year and the extrapolation to the 2015 working year indicate that the amount is still too low. We are therefore taking it on board the overall evaluation of the organization and financing of urgent medical aid in Belgium, which, as you know, needs to be reviewed, but I cannot do so alone, that must be done in consultation with other ministers, including the Minister for the Interior. In any case, there are already contacts between the two Cabinets, but it is still too early, we must have a complete dossier before we can make any further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u4	Madam President, Minister, it is precisely this problem that needs to be looked at as a whole, because it is a very diverse field, from private ambulance services to fire services. I have had some contacts with the sector in recent months, there is a real need for transparency, regulation and, above all, quality criteria for the future. I'm glad you're going to have the global debate. I have one short question about the deficit. When it is loss-making in 2014 and in 2015, does this mean that insurance institutions will have to co-finance this deficit or will this deficit remain open and is cumulative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u5	That is why we are going to try to find a solution for this year, but in any case we have been able to compensate for the reduction of a further 20%, which, of course, is not an easy exercise either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u6	Madam Minister, the problem of placements is not new. In the coalition agreement we have devoted a very extensive passage to this. I am well aware that the whole organisation, as well as the funding, cannot be separated from the whole debate on the revision of hospital funding. I have learned from contacts and the debate over the past few months about the placements, the RIZIV numbers, the quotas and the subquotas that, according to the students, there are not enough internships available for the number of people interested, especially for smaller specialities such as psychiatry. Funding is an element of this. Today, university hospitals are funded through their budget, and general hospitals that want to take care of this have to pay partly through doctors' contributions. There is therefore a need for a review. Moreover, the Centre of Knowledge has not so much expressed its opinion on funding, but rather on the fact that the criteria for recognition of placements are outdated. It has also made recommendations on this issue. Madam Secretary, with the coalition agreement as a coat of arms, I'd like to know if you're working on this. How do you see the reform? I know that there is a strong link with the Communities. We will increasingly be confronted with shared competences, especially when there are points of contact with the policy area of education. I would have liked to have had a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement and your general policy note contain various elements on which I must come back. First, the regulations will be reviewed. Secondly, the supervision of the internship and the support of training assistants for the health professions will be improved. Thirdly, adjustments will have to be made both in terms of funding and in terms of statutes. However, in the health care budget, as you have proposed to us, I see a reduction in the order of EUR 22 million over the entire legislature. An additional complication comes in. In addition to the lack of internship places that my colleague Mrs Muylle mentioned, there is also the double exit, in 2018, as a result of the reduction in the duration of medical studies from seven years to six. The Health Care Professional Supply Planning Unit released a report in October 2014 on the projected effect of this dual cohort in 2018. I'm not going to set out all the numbers here. I note that in 2018, there will be 448 internship places in the Flemish Community and 515 places in the French Community. It is relatively diffused across all specialties. Some black dots are catastrophic, especially in specialties that are still in short supply. Following the reform of the State, the monitoring of traineeships is the responsibility of the Communities. The Federal Government remains responsible for visas, standards and accreditation of places and traineeships (doctors, dentists and hospital pharmacists). Madam Minister, I would like to join Mrs Muylle on the issues of funding, revision of the financing regulations and the statutes for all trainee teachers. How do you intend to ensure a sufficient number of trainee teachers for each year and, in particular, for the 2018 double cohort? What solutions can be put in place to maintain quality training? This is a major issue, especially for doctors in this double cohort of 2018 for whom a large number of internship places will be missing. According to what agenda are you going to move forward on the revision of internship regulations, funding and this gap in places for the 2018 double cohort? Finally, in view of the division of powers, has consultation already been initiated with the Communities? If so, in what sense and on what agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u8	Mrs Muylle, Mrs Fonck, the coalition agreement does indeed pay special attention to the professional training of health professionals, including doctors. The professional training of young doctors determines to a large extent the quality, safety and efficiency of medical care. As regards the financing of traineeships, the current legislation provides for a RIZIV allowance for the supervision of general practitioners in training. This is a financing mechanism whereby the interuniversity coordination centres pay a training fee to the candidate hospital doctors and are partly financed by the RIZIV and partly by the internships. The RIZIV funding for the coordination centres consists of a fee per general practitioner in training and per year of training. For the academic year 2014-2015 it amounts to 29 870.43 euros per student. For the training of doctors Specialisms, the budget of the hospital's financial resources provides for funding under the B7 section. This funding is also under discussion because it is not enough. This is an annual national budget of around €18 million for university hospitals via the B7A and a small €6 million for non-university hospitals with so-called university beds via the B7B. The recent Medicomut agreement states that there will also be a fee for doctors in training with a recognised internship plan, including in ordinary non-university hospitals. Particular attention will also be paid to quality requirements, cooperation with and between universities and transparency in the allocation of traineeships. It is certainly another step forward. However, the revision of the Royal Decree No 78, which includes a review of the conditions of the internship services, is an ambitious and larger project. Their roll-out is likely to take up a large part of the legislature. The time is not yet ripe to make concrete statements on the specific implementation of the recognition criteria and quality requirements. Ms Fonck, with regard to the specific problem of the double cohort in 2018, this is a unique event, the effect of which would be limited to a few years after the duration of the training. This is valid both from a budgetary point of view, since expenditure is concentrated over a certain period of time, and from the point of view of the capacity to offer traineeships guaranteeing quality training. For trainees and internship services in Belgium, the challenge will be to motivate the actors, but the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners analyses the possibilities of a temporary increase in the supply of internships abroad, in order to cope with the dual cohort. I recently received an interim opinion from the Higher Council on this matter. In addition, a working group is continuing its work within INAMI. I can therefore assure you that the problems of the double cohort 2018, the change in the rules at the internship sites and the financing of these internships are still the subject of in-depth investigations. You will understand that at this stage, before I know the conclusions, I cannot provide you with the precise schedule of the regulatory amendments. Nevertheless, I have been assured that the conclusions will be ready soon, which will allow us to announce the measures decided upon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I believe that this is a very broad issue. Mr Fonck has also referred to the double cohorts and the additional deficit that is threatening in the future. I can only say today that you have a willingness to do this quickly. More and more I see in the non-university hospitals internships disappear. This often has to do with all kinds of reasons, not just financially. I am thinking of accreditation or quality standards. For many it is no longer necessary because of all this. I think they are asking for good guidance and support. I believe that there is still a great deal to be done in this area. In addition, I believe that we really need to take steps forward in this area. A more transparent system should also be sought in the light of funding. I understand that you want to do this, and I hope that we can expect an action plan from you in the short term after the working party has clarified the double cohort.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to stress that internships are fundamental for care providers and ultimately for the quality of care provided to patients. This is a crucial element of health policy for me in a long-term vision. As far as funding is concerned, this dossier is never just a complement to the financial reality of hospitals, to their underfunding; a debate must take place quickly, I hope, on this issue. It should be remembered that the large number of doctors and on-the-job care providers obviously represents an important burden and investment in time for specialists or general practitioners, which they cannot therefore devote to their patients! This is a particular issue. The government agreement plans to move forward on the issue of funding. As far as the double cohort is concerned, the Higher Council is working on it. Good! I was not aware of the existence of a working group at the level of INAMI. However, I allow myself to sound the alarm bell. To believe that the internships abroad will make it possible to measure the figures I mentioned, that is to say 448 missing places in the Flemish Community and 515 missing places in the French Community, is impossible and I hope that you will take them into account. It is important to think about other alternatives. I am also not sure that we will have the opportunity to hire so many additional traineeships. Perhaps there are other solutions? Should this double output be distributed differently over time? Should we consider other avenues? But, Madam Minister, take note of the fact that we did not talk about this October 2014 report about the figures that are calling for attention; we will not be able to settle for small measures unless we find ourselves in serious difficulty in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u11	Madam President, Minister, a debate that we have often had here in the past is the debate on the criteria for the recognition of general practitioners and whether or not they meet the criteria for recognition laid down in the Royal Decree of March 2012. In 2011 or early 2012 it was then established that for all general practitioners approved before 1 January 2011 a check period would start. We know the problems of general practitioners who do not meet the criteria or who do not meet the criteria. The criteria include keeping medical records and having about 500 patient contacts on an annual basis. The problem lies mainly with doctors who work partly in rest and nursing homes and doctors who work in CLBs. I would have liked to hear from you the following. Then Minister Onkelinx promised that solutions would be sought. Where a general practitioner is at a certain age, provides insufficient benefits and is no longer eligible for recognition, action must be taken. However, a very large part of the general practitioners are active in the field and have sufficient experience through CLBS and RVTS, but do not meet the criteria. Mrs Onkelinx then also advanced the slopes to work around an institution doctor. So here's what I want to know from you. Have any files been effectively withdrawn? Are you dealing with the problem? How do you intend to resolve the issue in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u12	Madam President, Ms Muylle, Chapter 2 of the Ministerial Decision of 1 March 2012 laying down the criteria for the recognition of general practitioners indeed contains requirements for maintaining the professional title of recognised general practitioner. One of the criteria is to reach at least once the activity threshold of at least 500 patient contacts per year over five consecutive years. In view of this long period of reference, I do not believe that any recognition has been withdrawn so far. However, I also note that the decision in question has been the responsibility of the defed entities since the sixth state reform. The General Doctors' Working Group of the Supreme Council of Medicine Specialists and General Doctors estimated the number of recognized general practitioners who may experience difficulties in meeting the activity criterion. There is, on the one hand, a group of three thousand general practitioners who do not really practice the profession anymore. Either they are retired, or they work in other sectors, I think I belong to that. On the other hand, there are 2 000 to 3 000 general practitioners with less classical but equally valuable and important patient contacts. You mentioned them: people working in medical-pedagogical institutions, drug addiction centres, family planning, school medicine, occupational medicine, etc. The Working Party on Family Doctors drew up non-limitative lists, both of activities that should also be eligible and of activities that are not eligible. I note that legal certainty must be guaranteed if this slope is to be followed. That is a really difficult exercise and this will have to be looked at very carefully. A proposal for new professional titles was also launched, the desirability and impact of which still needs to be examined. The creation of new professional titles, as well as the regulation of the maintenance of recognition, should also take into account international trends and approaches in the field of professional qualifications and the practice of medicine. This is something that needs to be looked at more globally, but given that they have to meet this condition only once for five years, it becomes difficult to act very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u13	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I understand that. My concern in this story, and you mentioned it, are those who have valuable contacts with CLB, occupational medicine and elsewhere, and who are concerned because they would no longer meet the conditions. Even though recognition and withdrawal have become regional matters, the criteria for recognition remain federal, I understand that you want to seek legal certainty for them. As far as the global approach is concerned, I can only agree with you that you are looking at international trends. For us, it is really important that the legal certainty for those who do have those valuable contacts can be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u14	Question No 987 by Mr Alain Mathot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u15	Madam President, Minister, in your general policy note, you indicated that the government is examining the creation of an intervention fund for patients who were infected with hepatitis C virus prior to 1986 following a blood transfusion. I welcome the government's willingness to move forward on this issue. For many years, we have been submitting legislation to compensate people with hepatitis C virus who were infected and transfused before 1 July 1990. It can be reasonably assumed that those who meet these conditions have not been contaminated due to negligence on their part but because of the impossibility of detecting hepatitis C virus in the blood in the pockets to be transfused. I believe that the conditions for compensation must be aligned with those applicable to persons infected with the AIDS virus and who meet the same conditions, the latter being able to be compensated for years. This is a real discrimination against people infected with the hepatitis C virus. I have been saying this for years and will continue to do so until we find the right solutions. Minister, could you please let us know how you are going to deal with this issue? Is an agenda already planned? Do you have any idea the conditions under which the fund will intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, as you say, this issue has been included in the general policy note and we have already discussed it. The policy note states that in 2015, I will review the creation of an intervention fund for patients who were infected before 1986 with hepatitis C virus following a blood transfusion. Our examination will therefore go further than the date of 1 July 1990 which you propose. I have asked my administrations to start the preparatory work in order to have a precise and quantified view of the problem. The methodological note has not yet been finalized, but the first step will be to identify the people affected and their needs. I will have more details to give you in a few weeks, when we have advanced in the methodological approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you. Will the fund be established before the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u18	I want to go as fast as possible, but first we need a methodology and an inventory of all those who are in the conditions. We have already begun this preparatory work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u19	It is important for me to be able to make concrete progress. We must not postpone this until later, and this is obviously the signal you are making. I will support you as much as possible in this process. As far as the preparatory work is concerned, I do not think that we should start all over again because, from memory, the KCE had already planned on the subject. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the deadline for work. Several experts have already positioned themselves over the year 1990. It is therefore important that we have as objective a reference as possible over the year to be considered because there was insufficient detection of hepatitis C virus; a new group of patients should not be created that would be discriminated against because they would have been contaminated even though the virus was not sufficiently detected in the transfused products.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u20	Minister, we will have the opportunity to follow up on this issue as a bill was tabled by Mr. Thiéry et al. on this compensation fund and the extension to contaminated patients before 1986. It concerns hepatitis C and HIV. Your representative had provided some information on the work under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u21	Madam President, Minister, in November 2013, the Supreme Council of Health issued an opinion entitled Quality of Life for Young Autistic Children and Their Families. This report proposes a series of recommendations to the various partners concerned in order to improve the quality of life of young children suffering from autism and families who are – you may imagine – very involved in the management of this developmental disorder. Among these recommendations, the Council includes the need to further facilitate the involvement of parents in the care of their child, the development and monitoring of the intervention programme, to improve the organisation of the service system, to guarantee the quality of services and the training of the professionals concerned. It also recommends better knowledge of the research landscape and the links between teams and the creation of "collaborative centres of expertise" while proposing some priority research themes. In April 2014, associations of parents, children's rights and persons with disabilities, alarmed by the gap between the needs of the population and the services offered, spoke to draw attention to the absolute need to create an autism plan addressed to all levels of government. They consider that the main points of this plan should be information, the framework for interventions, the training of doctors, paediatricians and child and health professionals, screening and diagnosis, taking into account the person suffering from autism, accompanying and training families, early intervention before school age, accompanying children and adolescents, schooling of children and adolescents, accompanying and monitoring adults, day-time activities, work and housing of dependent adults, respite and leisure, crisis and emergency situations and, finally, emotional and sexual life. This is a whole series of themes that fall not only within your purview, but also within the purview of other federal and federal ministers. It is important to make concrete progress on this issue at the interdepartmental conferences of the Ministers of Health, in charge of People with Disabilities, in collaboration with, among others, the Ministers of Education, etc. Madam Minister, I would like to come back to you because the Secretary of State responsible for people with disabilities and people with a high level of dependency has been somewhat bottling the matter. Minister, have you read this report from the Supreme Council of Health and this communication from patient associations? According to my information, they recently asked to meet with you, and I think it would be important if you could receive and hear them. How do you intend to act in practice and adopt the measures that fall within your competence? Do you intend to put in place such an autism plan with your colleagues responsible for the various facets of this plan? I believe that a minister must be able to be the pilot, the conductor, to mobilize all the ministers concerned at all levels of power, so that positive progress can be made for these children and families.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u22	Minister, in addition to this report of the Supreme Council of Health, there is also a report published a few months ago by the KCE on the existing offer in the care and support of children and adolescents with autism, as well as their families. The approaches are now diverse, in their theoretical references and in their methods. This diversity is particularly important, so as to allow complementarity and adapt to the evolution of children, adolescents and their families, in the different moments of their lives and in accordance with the balance of their illness and the difficulties they encounter. KCE has tried to identify scientifically based interventions and proposes the development of a long-term individualized intervention plan for each of these children and adolescents. It also suggests a psychosocial approach that aims to improve communication and autonomy and involves family members in the process. It also recommends multidisciplinary team work based on shared quality criteria. On the basis of this recommendation, which I can only share, the KEC stresses that there is a lack of sufficient scientific data, long-term "research-action" monitoring to properly assess and organise the most appropriate practices. They therefore had to rely mainly on literature. Irrespective of or within the framework of a possible autism plan, this diversity and this need for action research involving different theoretical references around shared criteria is particularly important now as there are rivalries between methodological schools, between types of intervention. Families sometimes seem to be taken hostage between these different schools, some of which are more cognitive and behaviouralist and others more psychodynamic. Policy makers must be vigilant to allow this multidisciplinarity. Minister, how do you intend to follow up on this KCE report and, more specifically, on two recommendations, one on multidisciplinary team work that meets shared quality criteria. How can we move in this direction? The other is the recommendation to provide the opportunity for teams to participate in clinical research to demonstrate promising or controversial intervention effectiveness. These conflicts are noted, but there is a lack of reference, of long-term follow-up. It is therefore important for the teams to be able to participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u23	Ms. Fonck, Ms. Gerkens, my team and I have read the opinion of the Higher Health Council on the quality of life of young children with autism and their families. The Higher Council of Health calls for action in three areas: - First, to provide the necessary information to parents; - secondly, an effective organisation of existing services and initiatives that ensure the support, care, evaluation and optimization of the quality of these services and initiatives; - thirdly, the optimisation of the training of health care professionals and accompanying professionals. There is also the recent KCE study on the management of autism in children and adolescents and recommendations on clinical practices to be promoted. These recommendations will be taken into account by the revalidation centres. In Belgium, autism is regarded by the Communities as a specific handicap. This means that they are competent for this. However, INAMI has set up reference centres for autism spectrum disorders with the intention of making a correct diagnosis as soon as possible and directing the children concerned towards appropriate reception and support. The revalidation centres were transmitted to the Communities as part of the Sixth State Reform. If there is a dual diagnosis, i.e. mental or psychiatric disorder in combination with autism, hospitalization is indicated only in the acute phase. Actions may be agreed with the Communities and Regions within the framework of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health and in accordance with a comprehensive approach for persons with this type of disability. No interdepartmental conferences have been held in the past year. There's one getting ready. We will try to organise three or four of them this year in order to catch up with the long period of post-election negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u24	Madam Minister, if I may, I shall make three points. First, I count on you to put on the agenda of a forthcoming interdepartmental conference the issue of autistic children and their families. Secondly, a number of issues dealt with by the Communities and the Regions are of great concern to the federal government. This is particularly the case with the training of health professionals, which is crucial in terms of screening and diagnosis. We know how variable the symptomatological forms of autism are. Diagnosis of the rarest of them is sometimes far too late. The earlier the intervention, the more it is possible to ensure proper integration and care. I am also thinking of the extremely important aspect of close caregivers, which also depends on the federal government. It is clear, Madam Minister, that the problem of income guarantee allowances and time credits without cause has a very negative impact on close caregivers. I can only insist once again on this issue, which directly affects the families of children suffering from autism. Finally, my third reflection will be on something that you have not mentioned. I would therefore like to stress the need to receive associations supporting autism. I know that requests have been made to the federal government, in particular to the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities and to you. However, no opening has been observed at this time. It therefore seems essential to me that at least one of you both receive and listen to these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I am consulted more frequently than the Pope. It's true that I'm getting everyone. I am receiving everyone, but I do want to have a serious discussion about the content of the file. I don't just get people to shake hands with them. I want to have a discussion on the content of the file. I'm gonna have to get some work done for that first. I receive a lot of people, but I want to have a vision and put a plan of action on the table. I don't want to send people home with just the message that they've been with me. That's not enough for me. I need to be able to work on all those files first. You will hear on the ground that people who have been with me have seen a concrete plan of action on the table. That should be there before I receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u26	No, Madam Minister, this is not madness! I heard what you just said out of the microphone!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u27	First, we need a vision of how we are going to act. These consultations, which concern many ministers, are very difficult. Before you announce anything, you have to give me time to consult with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u28	Minister, I know how this works.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u29	I am surprised that you ask the question every time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u30	I'm even more surprised at this little game! I don't think you have thousands of requests. At the very least, there may be a response that would send an opening signal saying that these requests will be heard at the appropriate time. In addition, I plead that we should not listen to them when everything is over and then there are things for which we have decided not to act. Minister, I don't know why you're upset about this. You are concerned, but the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities is also concerned; yet she told RTL that persons with disabilities were not within her jurisdiction. Why then does she bear this title? Therefore, when such messages come from the federal government, I can understand that associations are wondering if there is a real willingness to listen and progress. Even if you cannot receive them within eight days, which I can understand, commit to receive them before the closure of decisions. As soon as you can, present them with a concrete agenda on the progress of work and your willingness to move forward: this will be an important and positive signal!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u31	I would just like to say that I am almost 53 years old and still able to make my own agenda. I will receive the people as soon as I have something sensible to say. I accept all the help in making my difficult agenda, including Mrs Fonck's. I'll take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u32	Madam Minister, I would just like to add one thing: as important as it is to say to these families that you will be able to meet them and that you are working on the subject, it is important to ensure that this comprehensive approach and the presence of a series of actors around the table are taken into account. There is nothing more unbearable than to take families, in a way, hostage, if we are in a bad position in relation to their request and their interlocutors. They are in difficult situations and it is important that they know that we are working on the subject and that this will be done with their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, in your general policy note, you indicate that, compared to abroad, the dialysis of low-care patients in Belgium is relatively little performed at home or in a dialysis centre. The mechanism for financing the various forms of dialysis is not neutral in terms of profits. You recall that the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) made the same observation in its 2010 report. You announced a requirement for 10% of chronic dialysis patients in hospital to be referred to a home dialysis or dialysis centre, which is expected to result in a savings of 23 million. Minister, have you taken note of the reasoned answer to the KCE report of the various groups of Belgian nephrologists? In its time, the KCE identified the funding problems that you refer to personally. Let me be surprised that the responsibility of nephrologists is being pointed out today, when in 2001 the nephrologists proposed the creation of a weekly patient-to-patient honorarium, independent of the nature of renal substitution treatment, a proposal that I consider interesting in that it would avoid accusations of suspecting nephrologists of wanting to keep their patients in hospital. I do not know why this interesting proposal has never been followed. Given this clarification, and on the basis of the principle that you draw attention to the problem I have just mentioned, would it not be appropriate for you to take up this proposal? Otherwise, why not bring together groups of nephrologists (the Groupement des Nephrologues Francophones de Belgique and the Nederlandstalige Belgische Vereniging voor Nefrologie) around the table to develop alternative proposals? In addition, in its report, the KCE referred to the well-known neutral counselor that might be necessary to guide the patient's choice of type of dialysis. Do you intend to come back to the proposal contained in the KCE report? If so, what is called a neutral advisor? Does Neutral mean a pure limitation of the types and cost of treatments? Does Neutral mean independent of the medical and paramedical team? If this is the case, should issues relating to the ethics and specific content of the patient's file be addressed? Are you considering applying this measure to other pathologies, such as heart disease? Will a neutral advisor be required to opt for coronary expansion or cardiac surgery? Finally, last important question, I would like to return to the announcement you made concerning a saving of EUR 23 million. We're already in February. How are you doing, except to say that this is in line with the 2010 KCE position, working with the nephrologist sector and on what indicative course in terms of the announced economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u34	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, thank you for your questions. In response to your question about the initiatives to be taken in the context of the economies in the dialysis sector, a linear saving of 8.5% on fees was taken as a conservatory in the doctor-mutuality agreement. As regards the packages that hospitals can charge for chronic haemodialysis in hospital, in a centre and as part of peritoneal dialysis, this saving measure has not yet been implemented. The INAMI administration has just sent me a proposal in which, according to a purely financial approach, the savings of EUR 23 million are entirely realized on the one hand, and in which, on the other hand, several aspects are already taken into account of the proposals made by the nephrologist associations and by hospital organisations, mutual societies and the KCE. We will try to reach a short-term consensus on the basis of this proposal. At the same time, I will ask the various working groups to continue their work. I expect them to continue to reflect in depth on an integral approach for people with chronic renal impairment in a broad context, taking into account care trajectories, prevention, care programmes, quality criteria, new standards of recognition and programming, the patient's orientation towards the most appropriate technique of facilitating alternative forms - especially for fragile seniors -, the encouragement of kidney transplants and integrated funding. I therefore assume that your questions will form part of the great reflection that will be carried out in the various working groups. It is true that there is a lot to be done, it has been a long time since we talked about the problem, but the different opinions have never been collected; some opinions have been updated over the years by associations of nephrologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u35	Thank you for your answer. The conveyors are waiting, as they say. What interests me is to see in practice how these 23 million savings are made so that the patients directly concerned are not penalized. As a reminder, in the analysis of path data, it is found that populations with end-stage renal impairment mainly include elderly patients, with a lower level of education and with significant co-morbidity, i.e., particularly fragile patients that are not always easy to return home. The issue of guidance, information and overall management is of course three pillars in relation to chronic renal failure. I think, Madam Minister, you can work with the actors on the ground. I repeat, as early as 2001, they had made alternative funding proposals to dispose of these different approaches and to ensure that the decision on dialysis was not linked to funding. I think that we can really move forward with the actors on the ground in this direction rather than accusing them of being responsible for these important costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u36	Since Mr Demon was not present and had not apologized, his question No 1129 became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u37	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked some of your colleagues this question. As a Liberal parliamentarian, I would also like to bring it to your attention. During the last legislature, I have had the opportunity to question your predecessors about these practices of mutual competition, which I consider unfair, particularly in the field of auto-schools, in the practice of optics and - I have recently been able to see in my region - in the field of dentistry. Several mutualities have developed activities that are outside the traditional scope that they are supposed to pursue and some independents are calling for unfair competition. I could quote the "Drive Mut", proposed by the socialist mutuality or the "Point de Mire", proposed by the Christian and socialist mutualities. In my commune, Eupen, a great brand advertises for the practice of dentistry, defying all competition. One may wonder about the ethics of these practices. Minister, the organization of these activities through mutualities allows structures to practice competitive pricing, which poses major problems for professionals in the sector. Secondly, the visibility offered to these services by the members of the mutual allows for easy publicity which, again, clearly deregulates the market. To take a concrete example, the "Drive Mut" service charges one hour of car-school at 40 euros, compared to an average of 47 euros in a traditional independent car-school. In the past, the Minister in charge of the Economy had indicated that the Office for the Control of Mutualities (OCM) would study the matter and that many informal contacts had been made with mutualities in order to respond to the numerous inquiries on the subject. Minister, is the competition for mutualities in sectors such as auto-schools, optics or dentistry legal? What are the CMO's conclusions on the subject? In the event that you were able to read the file, have you reactivated contacts with mutuals on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u38	Mrs Jadin, the question of compliance with competition rules falls within the competence and assessment of the Belgian Competition Authority, an independent authority which, as you know, is attached to the powers of the Minister in charge of the Economy. It is not for me, nor for the Office for the Control of Mutualities, to decide on this point. The Monitoring Office is in fact solely responsible for ensuring compliance by mutualist entities with the provisions of the Act of 6 August 1990 on mutualities and National Unions of Mutualities. The Act defines, inter alia, their scope and the manner in which they are to be dealt with. Within this jurisdiction, it is true that the Monitoring Office carried out a cross-sectional investigation into the relationship between mutualist entities and optical shops in order to ensure that, where such relations exist, they comply with the provisions of the Act of 1999 and its implementing orders. The analysis will be completed in the coming weeks. We will therefore have the conclusions. More generally, I would like to point out that the policy statement for 2015, which I recently presented to Parliament, contains several points relating to mutualities, in implementation of the government agreement. In particular, I would like to highlight the projects aimed at increasing the financial transparency of mutualities and refocusing the activity of mutualities on evidence-based practices. It will be carried out in consultation with the Office for the Control of Mutualities and Mutualities in the preparation and adaptation of the Act of 6 August 1990 to ensure that the services which mutualities can create to grant financial assistance in the costs of prevention and treatment of the disease or to promote the physical or mental well-being of their members respect evidence-based practices. To do this, it is essential to have a map describing the current situation of the various insurers. The Office for the Control of Mutualities and National Unions of Mutualities is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u39	Thank you very much, minister, for not leaving me on the tile with this question. I had already asked your colleague about the Belgian Competition Authority and he had kindly sent me back to you. I am satisfied and reassured by the fact that you have a method of dealing with these and so many other problems because of the lack of transparency of the institution. I'm glad you wanted to take the problem by arm-to-body. I'll ask you again according to the timeline. And it goes without saying that I will be at your side, Madam Minister, to assist you in the projects you wish to carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u40	Madam Minister, you had touched a word on this "double diagnosis" issue, earlier on autism. Among the reforms planned for the current legislature, one of your priorities will be mental health care. In March 2014, the Senate unanimously adopted a resolution on the improvement of "the management of double diagnosis". We know that in Belgium there are nowhere specific hospital units for patients who associate a disability with a mental illness problem, especially in crisis situations that require hospitalization. In the absence of such a place of reception, these people find themselves in psychiatric units for long stays that prove useless. It is estimated that some 150,000 people are affected by this double diagnosis. The resolution adopted last year called for the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) to be consulted in order to carry out a study on the problem of "double diagnosis"; to keep the pilot projects in mobile intervention cells until the final report of the KCE, although they remain insufficient in times of crisis; and finally, to request the opinion of the National Council of Hospital Institutions with a view to creating a new hospital index. Madam Minister, in view of the vote on this resolution, the commitments already made by Minister Onkelinx under the previous legislature, and the existence of two units (Bierbeek in Flanders, Manage in Wallonia) which, on a voluntary basis, try to properly accommodate these patients without constituting pilot projects, I would like to ask the following questions. What follow-up do you intend to give to the Senate resolution, in particular, in the ongoing studies, both at the KCE and the Higher Council of Health? If so, within what time frame could we have an opinion? What about the transformation of these trials into real pilot projects? Despite the fact that everything remains to be finalized, Belgium appears to be a relatively pioneer in this area. Does it establish contacts with other European countries to promote and create a more collective reflection on the care of these people and their families?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u41	Gerkens, following the Senate resolution of March 2014, Ms.Onkelinx, my predecessor, immediately seized the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise to conduct a study on the problem of double diagnosis. However, given the very large number of other topics as important as this, KCE was unable to select this study for the 2015 annual programme. The evaluation of the proposal based on objective criteria did not lead to a priority ranking. A new study proposal with the same research questions was submitted to the Higher Council for Health and this proposal was accepted. The study started on October 16, 2014. The questions in this study are: What are the care needs for dual diagnosis in Belgium? To what extent is it necessary to provide for the creation of additional beds in Belgium? If necessary, where and how should additional beds be implanted? The results of this study are expected in October 2015 and my wish is to develop a scientifically supported and validated policy. That's why I'm waiting for the results of this research before I get involved. I will ask my administration to disseminate widely the results of the study and the recommendations of the Higher Council of Health as well as the results of our own analyses from pilot projects "double diagnosis minor and major". On the basis of the reactions I have received, I will do everything I can to raise my colleagues' awareness at European level and at the World Health Organisation. I think it is necessary to have conclusions in our country before raising awareness among our neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u42	I assume that the Higher Council of Health, in its study, integrates the actors who today in Manage and Bierbeek welcome these people to assess their specificities: do we need extra beds or do we need to transform units and distribute them correctly geographically? The National Council of Hospitals is, I suppose, automatically consulted during the studies of the Higher Council of Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u43	All actors are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you. We will wait until October to see what emerges from this study, even if the current projects remain subsidized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u45	Question nr. Ms. Leen Dierick's 1186 was postponed to her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u46	Madam President, this is the second time that Mrs Dierick's question has been postponed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u48	Madam President, Minister, pertussis is a serious infection of the respiratory tract caused by a bacterium and characterized by a dry cough. It is particularly dangerous for children under one year of age because of the risk of serious complications. A few weeks ago, the media reported an increase in pertussis cases in our country. For example, 1,200 pertussis cases were recorded in Belgium between January and October 2014. This increase also applies to the whole of Europe. A professor at UZ Brussel University Hospital recently spoke in the press about "an epidemic". The reasons for this resurgence appear to be multiple: the change in the vaccine, which is not currently known for the duration of protection, a better knowledge and vigilance of doctors and a possible change in the virulence of strains. According to the president of the Vaccination Group of the Higher Council of Health, "it is essential that the environment of the baby be vaccinated". According to him, but also according to the Infectious Diseases Surveillance Unit, "it is necessary to increase the awareness of gynaecologists and treating physicians in order to encourage the mother and the entourage to be vaccinated". Minister, can you tell us how many cases of pertussis have been recorded over the last five years? Of these, how many children under one year of age have been affected? How do you explain this increase in diagnosed cases? What is the current pertussis vaccine policy? What about reimbursement? Are any changes envisaged as a result of this resurgence? What is your position with respect to the so-called "vaccination cocoon strategy" of immunizing people who are frequently in contact with infants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u49	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, since the 1990s there has been an increase in the number of cases in Belgium, with a peak every four to five years. The number of pertussis cases occurring in Belgium is monitored through different sources. On the one hand, the disease is reportable in all federated entities. The number of diagnoses is monitored by the network of vigie laboratories, coordinated by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. On the other hand, it is important to have a confirmation of diagnosis by the National Reference Centre. Based on these three sources, the PSI estimated the actual pertussis incidence at 14.2% per 100,000 inhabitants in Flanders and 18.7% for Wallonia and Brussels in 2014. The increase in the number of pertussis cases observed in 2012 continued in 2013 and 2014. The increase is observed in the different age groups, but it is in the 35-60 age group that it is highest. Children under one year of age, especially those under two years of age who have not yet been vaccinated, as the first vaccine is at 8 weeks of age, are still the age group with the most frequent detection. The increase can be explained by several factors: incomplete protection by vaccination and certainly a decrease in this immunity over time, a better diagnosis since the funding of the national reference centres, a better declaration, especially in Wallonia, a natural cycle in the circulation of the pathogen showing a cycle of 4 to 5 years. Note that the years 2012-2014 are not yet available in the data bank Summary Hospitaller Minimum. These figures only include hospitalized patients. The Higher Council of Health gives an annual opinion on the vaccination calendar, but the implementation of the basic calendar is a competence of the Communities. Vaccination against pertussis was launched in the late 1950s, early 1960s, with a cellular vaccine. In 1998 in Flanders, the fourth dose of vaccine was replaced by an acellular pertussis vaccine. In 2001, the whole germ vaccine was completely replaced by an acellular vaccine for all doses across the country. Current recommendations for HIV vaccination include, first, universal vaccination for infants at 8, 12, 16 weeks and 15 months of age with hexavalent vaccine and booster vaccinations at 5-6 years of age with tetravalent vaccine since 2001 and at 15-16 years of age with the so-called Tpa vaccine (diphtheria, tetanus-coqueuche) since 2009. Then there is vaccination of specific groups. Since 2009, the "cocoon" vaccination concerns all family members surrounding a young child (father, mother, sibling). It also concerns grandparents. In this case, however, vaccination is not reimbursed, which is a small problem. Health professionals who care for infants, pregnant women between the 24th and 32nd weeks of pregnancy are still involved, since the end of 2013. This vaccination should be renewed during each new pregnancy. The vaccine is free for pregnant women in both Wallonia and Flanders. The basic vaccination schedule falls within the competence of the Communities, including with regard to the financing of vaccines included in this schedule. The recommendation made by the Supreme Council of Health is based on the finding that children under one year of age, and especially those under two years of age before the start of vaccination, are frequently affected by the disease. In this age group, unfortunately, the morbidity rate after contracting this disease is also higher. For this reason, since 2004, single dose cocoon vaccination has been recommended for adults, parents, future parents, nurses and grandparents, all of whom are often in contact with infants. The difficulties in carrying out this vaccination are linked, on the one hand, to the arrangements for reimbursement of the vaccine with control and, on the other hand, to the coordination between the vaccine providers involved, i.e., general practitioners and gynaecologists. Work still needs to be done in this area. Indeed, the figures have been on the rise for the last three years. It is therefore necessary to convince many concerned people of the paramount importance of being vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u50	Madam President, I thank the minister for the complete and technical nature of her answer. Madam Minister, it is interesting to note that you are aware of the problem, in any case you do not deny the increase in cases in recent years and the need, in cooperation with the Communities responsible for certain aspects, to ensure that information is provided to practitioners and the public alike. I have the feeling that these 50s and 60s vaccines have been forgotten on the pretext that they are no longer useful. I think we take this lightly. Your department should launch information in this regard. I know you'll do everything you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u51	Madam Chair, Minister, I am addressing you today after questioning the Minister of Defence who sent me back to you. It must be noted that the government will impose huge savings of EUR 1.5 billion on the Ministry of Defence, as it will on all departments of the State, in the coming years. In this context, the government agreement refuses to decide between the various components of National Defence, except to sacrifice the medical component. The agreement refers to the possible closure of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital. This example was echoed in a press briefing by the Chod (Chief of Defence). However, this facility plays a crucial role in the civilian care sector of our country, providing essential services that civilian hospitals would find difficult to take care of, such as the burn service. It could also have played an extremely important role in the Ebola crisis. In addition, this choice seems incomprehensible, while the army is more focused on operations abroad and therefore the potential number of casualties could increase among our military. Minister, what are your views on the future of this institution, which is certainly under Defence's supervision, but which performs important functions in the area of health care and assistance to the nation? How can the specific role of this hospital be maintained? Do you intend to consult with the defence social partners on the future of this institution? If so, according to which calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u52	Madam Chair, Mr.Senesael, no discussion has yet taken place with my Defence colleague on the destination of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital. As far as the consequences of the savings measures for Defence are concerned, I refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Defence. When the future situation of the Queen Astrid Military Hospital is clear to my colleague, there can be a consultation with the Department of Defence and we can examine what role the military hospital can possibly play in the reformed hospital landscape. You mentioned the important centre of the big burns, which is subject to strict programming in Belgium. It is also our national centre for burns. The destination of such a centre cannot be changed so easily. I'm waiting to get to know the Minister of Defence's plans. He visited the site. I think he'll design a plan that can then be discussed. I find that this hospital already brings great added value, especially with regard to the big burns. We'll see if we need to think about other assignments. It also depends on him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u53	I thank the Minister for her response. I think she is well aware of the interest in maintaining the skills assigned to the staff of this hospital, which plays an important role for the big burns in our country. He could also have brought his expertise to the level of the Ebola crisis. Madam Minister, I have no doubt of your stubbornness to convince your colleague of the interest and sustainability of this hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u54	Madam Secretary, according to a news release from the Foundation Against Cancer in December 2014, smoking a bong would increase the risk of leukaemia. They refer to an American study showing the presence of high benzene levels in water pipes. Exposure to benzene is a risk factor for the development of leukaemia. However, many users still think wrongly that using a bong or shisha pen would be healthier than smoking cigarettes. I would have liked to ask you a few questions. First, have your services conducted studies on the harmful effects of the bong and related products? What are the results? Was the link to leukemia or other diseases made here? Secondly, can the Minister explain whether the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FOD has received more complaints in recent years about the use of the bong and related products? Thirdly, do you agree with the Foundation against Cancer on the need for and urgency of information policy and a stricter framework for the products of the bong? Do you feel the same way about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u55	Apparently, this is a new trend. I didn't know that either. The World Health Organization has repeatedly pointed out the danger of water pipe smoking. Its harmfulness is also sufficiently demonstrated in scientific studies. The FPS Public Health has not carried out any studies of the harmful effects of the bong itself. The control department Tobacco and Alcohol of the FPS Public Health has already received several complaints about the smoking of water pipes in hospitality stores. The complaints are registered with the FPS Public Health on the basis of the type of infringement such as smoking in a catering business. Complaints about smoking in water pipe bars therefore fall under this general category. A further division of complaints to the exact type of tobacco product to be smoked is not possible. However, all these complaints are investigated and the necessary measures are taken as soon as water pipes are smoked in catering shops. Last year, for example, 32 water pipe bars were destroyed by the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service. Last year, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service also prepared and distributed a new leaflet on non-smoking restaurants. In the meantime, there is considerable demand for this. In this leaflet attention is also paid to a few new trends including the use of the bong. Not only does it explain the ban on the use of a water pipe in the hospitality sector, it also points out that water pipe smokers receive even more harmful and carcinogenic substances than cigarette smokers. The FPS cannot organise prevention campaigns, as this is a task for the Communities. In the latest European Tobacco Directive, the implementation of which will start by the Public Health Office as in the other European countries, water pipe tobacco is considered a tobacco product intended for smoking. This means that we can automatically apply certain restrictive measures such as health warnings to water pipe tobacco as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This is indeed a new trend. In many catering cities such as Leuven, we see the water pipe pop up in bars. It looks trendy, but the harmful substances are not recognized. By burning the petroleum and gasoline, this gives benzene levels, separate from nicotine. The burning of charcoal is also carcinogenic, in addition to tobacco addiction, of course. Many water pipe smokers think that the toxic substances are filtered through the water, but that is not the case at all. I think a large-scale information campaign is needed, more large-scale than just a leaflet. Young people like to do it: it is a great instrument that one can use and that speaks to the imagination. There is a need for more sensitization at youth homes and that is indeed a competence of the Flemish government, but perhaps your services can also respond to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u57	Madam President, Minister, on December 22, 2014, the new medical-mutualist agreement for 2015 was concluded and we welcome it. This medico-mutualist agreement provides, in particular, for a strengthening of the policy on day-care posts in general medicine. To this end, the agreement provides for the creation of 15 new general medical care posts or equivalent alternatives in areas with insufficient coverage, taking into account a balanced regional distribution; and a uniform availability of general medical care posts. By the end of 2015, the general medical duty stations will prepare a plan of agreements with emergency services in the region to streamline the use of child care, child care and emergency services. Minister, you are aware of the great attention I pay to the shortage of doctors in rural areas. This information has not failed to draw my attention. What will be the methodology used to translate this point into reality and create 15 additional guard posts? How and by whom will insufficient areas be defined? What will be the criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u58	Mr Clarinval, I can tell you that the policy on the financing of guard stations is being developed by the National Medical Mutualist Commission. It is within the framework of this policy that the Commission incorporates the rule mentioned in the medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December 2014. It will have to be applied together with the other mechanisms that lead to funding decisions, the main one of which is undoubtedly that it is the circles of general practitioners who have great autonomy in the way in which they organize general medical care. It is therefore the circles which decide in the first place the establishment of a guard post in their area of general medicine. In view of this reality, the working group preparing the funding dossiers for the National Medical Mutual Commission will have to form a global picture of the various applications for funding which are expected to take place over a period of time, for example a year. These requests may be located in relation to existing or emerging initiatives at the global, national and regional levels, whose area, population, operation, number of general practitioners available for care and per capita costs are clearly known to the working group. In order to learn more about the intentions of the circles, coordination work is needed in Wallonia and Flanders. It will support the circles in preparing their decisions and setting their needs at the functional and financial levels and situate them in the global landscape. It is on the basis of the globalisation of information from the two regions that the medicomut will be able to see whether the desired balance is being achieved. It is the National Medical-Mutualist Commission that will have to set the parameters for assessing progress in the implementation of this policy, bearing in mind that the situation on the ground is changing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. As we discussed this morning in the Committee on the Economy, the situation of medical shortages in rural areas is becoming very serious in some areas. I hope that the work of this committee to globalise will highlight the fact that the guard stations in question must be installed in the areas in need. That seems obvious to me. I assume that the experts in this committee will come to this conclusion. In any case, I would like your attention to be focused on those areas that have been suffering from medical desertification for several years and for which the creation of medical homes could be one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u60	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the unrecognised PET scans. This subject has been discussed several times here. The Health Act of 10 April 2014 granted the General Council of the RIZIV the possibility to conclude agreements with hospitals for a limited period of time, until 1 August 2014, to end disputes concerning benefits in kind, performed with non-recognised, so-called black PET scanners. By the way, they are no longer called black, but end-of-life PET scanners. Hospitals would have to repay 65% of the disputed benefits in kind. The competence for the A3 funds in the budget was transferred to the regions after the state reform. Just before the transition from competence to the region's regions, your predecessor managed to rewhite a piece of these black PET scanners by relaxing certain programme standards in conjunction with the region's regions. I understand that this was one in Flanders and the rest in Wallonia and Brussels. This has led to quite a number of reactions, especially in many hospitals which have been following the rules of the game correctly for years and have been following their files with great duty. Madam Secretary, I think this is no longer permissible. How many acts of non-recognized aircraft were actually closed down during that period? How much resources have been generated from this? How many resources went back to the RIZIV? I understand that this is a shared competence. The funding remains partly with us, but the budget for the A3 funds with the recognition standards is now in Flanders. Are you prepared to discuss this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference to ensure that the hospitals that behave correctly in these cases can continue to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u61	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, this is indeed a not-so-beautiful file, a legacy from the past. All hospitals using an unrecognised PET scanner have entered into a deal with the RIZIV. These are seven hospitals: one in Flanders, three in the Brussels-Capital Region and three in the Walloon Region. The total amount reimbursed by these hospitals in accordance with the commitments entered into amounts to EUR 2 676 473.77. This amount represents 65% of the total amount of benefits in kind unduly charged to medical care insurance. The agreements have been entered into in accordance with Article 16 (1) 17° of the Coordinated Law on compulsory medical care and benefits introduced by Article 50 of the Law of 10 April 2014 laying down various health provisions. It follows, in particular, that, in view of the risk of lengthy proceedings, their complexity, the uncertain outcome of legal disputes and the costs involved, it is considered fair to put an end to pending disputes. The hospitals concerned are also interested in a solution in the form of a settlement which allows disputes to be brought to an end by means of reciprocal concessions and without any adverse recognition of anyone. During the previous legislature, an implementation of medical imaging was negotiated with the Communities. This resulted in a protocol agreement of 24 February 2014. One of these measures was to draw up a list of heavy medical equipment, in accordance with Article 52 of the Hospital Act. This means that aircraft may not be installed on this list until prior approval has been given by the competent Minister of State. In addition, the programming of the number of PET devices was extended in view of the increase in the number of indications for which a PET study is necessary. It is up to the Communities to allocate and recognise the additional appliances. The final part of this plan is a cadastre of medical imaging equipment, which allows continuous monitoring of the installation of new devices and the status of the existing devices. I hope that this will avoid such situations in the future. It is certainly not a fine example of programming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u62	Indeed, Madam Secretary. It is no longer your competence, but at the moment there is a new round of programming going on in the regions. I'm seeing the same screenplays playing again at the moment. You are quite right to reply that if the agreements could be entered into and concluded, this would also have to put an end to the whole. If one subsequently finds that certain regions, not to mention Brussels, are what is black or end-of-life and about which a settlement has been agreed, nevertheless include in their recognition, that is a pity. This is really not a nice file. Madam Minister, I know that most of these competences lie with your fellow Members from the region, but I hope that you will keep this warm when monitoring federal policy in the context of the Inter-Ministerial Conferences and carry out some checks on them. This is indeed not right for our health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u63	Madam President, Minister, a 1977 Royal Order establishes provincial medical commissions (PMCs) whose mission is to suspend the visa of health professionals who would put the lives of patients at risk. Unfortunately, 38 years later, the implementing orders have not yet been adopted. In doing so, some decisions of the CMPs could be simply overturned. The members of those commissions were therefore beginning to discourage themselves, wondering to what extent it was useful to extend their powers when they were unable to implement the sanctions recommended. In particular, there is the question of what can be done against a health professional who does not appear at the hearing and who is not represented. Madam Minister, of course you are not responsible for this situation, but could you please let me know if you are thinking of taking action so that the CMPs can play their full role?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u64	Madam President, my colleague, the provincial medical commissions monitor the physical and psychological fitness of health care professionals. In this context, they may withdraw the visa of these professionals, which constitutes one of the legal conditions for access to the profession or subject it to conditions. They may theoretically withdraw the visa or limit the effect of the visa when it is established, in an extract of the criminal record, that the practitioner's history is incompatible with the exercise of all or part of his profession and that a conviction is established by the extract of a criminal record for facts sufficiently relevant to the exercise of his profession. However, as you mentioned, this possibility does not exist in practice because the procedure has not been fixed by the King. In the event of a serious risk to public health or the physical integrity of patients, an emergency suspension procedure aimed at all health professionals complements this provision. However, this new possibility still has to be supplemented by a royal implementing order laying down the procedure. In addition, provincial medical commissions have some disciplinary competence with respect to compliance with the obligation of continuity of care and the obligation to transmit all relevant or necessary information from a patient to the health professional designated by the patient. This rule applies exclusively to occupational groups which do not have an order. In this case, too, provincial medical commissions have no jurisdiction to impose sanctions when these obligations have not been met. I recognize that a great deal of work remains to be done to give provincial medical commissions the legal means to ensure that patients receive quality care from practitioners who are physically, mentally, legally and morally fit to practise their profession. Together with my administration, the necessary initiatives will be taken to assess in the short term the powers of the provincial medical commissions and to reorient them in the context of a thorough revision of Royal Decree No. 78 of 10 November 1967 on the exercise of the health care professions, in order to create an organ capable of effectively exercising its important supervisory competence in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u65	Madam Minister, I can only thank you. It is always dismaying to see that the legislator sometimes makes provisions for which he does not assume the rules of enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u66	Madam President, Minister, there has been a lot of work recently on the DIY test kits in the context of genetic breast cancer. Some well-known figures have also been mentioned in the media. I believe that many people are not only going to seek help in the genetic centers, but also to use these do-it-yourself tests. These kits are easy to obtain through the internet. The tests are then carried out at home without much explanation. We believe this is a worrying evolution. In a report, the Centre of Knowledge has already pointed out the dangers of democratizing and disseminating these tests in an uncontrolled manner. The centre says that this should only be done in one of the eight existing Belgian Centres for Genetics. Madam Secretary, are you following the Knowledge Centre's findings? Are you planning to stop selling those test kits over the Internet? Would you like to point out through an awareness campaign the risks associated with the use of such test kits, which can be purchased via the Internet? The recommendations of the Centre of Knowledge mentioned, in terms of prevention and advice, the possibility of working with a genetic consultant. Are you willing to explore this slope so that the creation of this profession can be considered? In this way, the dissemination of information could be done in a better way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u67	Madam President, Mrs Muylle, the report of the Knowledge Centre you mentioned indeed sets out a number of guidelines for oncogenetic tests for hereditary breast cancer and a number of hereditary syndromes. It is of course very important for the patient to return the genetic test to the advice and guidance of qualified health professionals. This is also determined in the conventions of the RIZIV with the Belgian Genetic Centres. In the context of the existing recognised professional qualifications and special skills, it does not seem appropriate to create an additional professional title genetics adviser. The increasing subspecializations need not necessarily all be translated into specific professional titles. The importance of adequate guidance and information to the patient cannot be stressed enough. For the sale of genetic testing over the internet, I refer to the opinion of the 2012 Supreme Health Council, which first recommends the provision of information on genetic testing to health professionals and to the general public: "It is important to stress that clinically validated and medically appropriate tests are available in hospitals for those who need them and that they are also reimbursed by healthcare. It is also important to explain the limitations of the tests advertised, offered and sold on the Internet as well as the concerns they raise. So much for the recommendations of the Supreme Health Council. They also recommend stricter international supervision. The draft regulation is specific to in vitro diagnostics at European level. We continue our market surveillance activities and the awareness of the actors, and at the same time actively monitor developments in this area in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u68	Madam Minister, this Internet issue needs to be looked at more broadly and I note that you will follow up on what is happening at European level. I've heard the recommendation from the Supreme Health Council. Will you take action in this regard? After all, some matters fall within your competence. You referred to the recommendations and my question is whether you will consider in the coming months whether you can take any legislative initiatives to limit the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u69	A number of questions have already been asked about this in the past. When looking for information on cord blood and its donation I stumbled upon the company Cryo-Save in Niel. The company offers parents the possibility to freeze the cord blood of their newborn baby for possible later use for the child. Storage of cord blood by private companies is not permitted in Belgium unless the company in question is linked to an official cord blood bank. In this case, the transfer of cord blood should be carried out through that bank. The Leuven umbilical cord blood bank is such a public bank and has a family umbilical cord blood bank. If a mom is pregnant and already has a child suffering from a blood disease, the umbilical cord blood of the brother or sister can be frozen by name. In the future it may be appropriate to perform a transplant with stem cells from the umbilical cord. The Law of December 2008 regulates the use of human body material for the purpose of medical application to humans or scientific research. The law prohibits, among other things, any advertising and use for individual applications. At first glance, therefore, the company Cryo-Save seems to be making a mistake here. Do you know of companies other than Cryo-Save engaged in the private storage of cord blood? If so, which one? Under the law of 19 December 2008, the removal of human body material must be carried out by a recognised Belgian bank for human body material, which is operated by an approved hospital. Does Cryo-Save still comply with the legislation today? I know the company was regularly inspected. Was Cryo-Save checked recently? What was the outcome of the inspections? Pregnant women are often not informed of the existence of public cord blood banks. Do you find it interesting to give more publicity to this? Are you planning this legislature to encourage parents to donate cord blood?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u70	It is an important dossier, which has been on the committee for many years. I can testify to that. All human body material, including cord blood and cord tissue removed in Belgium and intended for human use, must pass through an approved bench for human body material. A Belgian human body material bank is operated by a hospital, as referred to in the Law of 19 December 2008 on Human Body Material. So far, Cryo-Save has no cooperation agreement with a recognized Belgian bank. Therefore, under the above-mentioned law, Cryo-Save was not allowed to process, preserve, store and distribute cord blood removed from Belgium. On 27 September 2012 and 19 October 2012, inspections were carried out by the inspection services of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products in that institution. During those inspections, it was established that between the beginning of 2011 and the date of the inspection, steel cord blood and steel cord tissue were removed on Belgian territory. The samples were received and preserved in the intermediate structure Cryo-Save in Niel. A report was therefore drawn up by the competent inspection services and forwarded to the public prosecutor. I asked the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products to follow up on the dossier. In reply to your last question on information and awareness, I would like to inform you that I believe that, first of all, the treating gynecologist, midwife or midwife may point out to the patient the possibility of donation. Existing banks and intermediate structures for cord blood have already taken initiatives to sensitize, including through the provision of leaflets in different languages. I am currently having an investigation into whether, together with the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, we can optimize the information to the public along the lines of the campaigns for organ donation, the so-called Beldonor actions. The question is whether such a campaign could also be set up for the preservation of umbilical cord blood and umbilical cord tissue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u71	Madam Secretary, you refer to the inspections at Cryo-Save. I saw a very old parliamentary question from Mrs Vanlerberghe, which also referred to those inspections and controls. Since 2012 and the preparation of the report, there is no record, although the company still advertises online. The question is, therefore, whether it is complying with the 2008 legislation today and whether there is a need to step up its action. What is the status of the procedure in relation to that intermediate structure, which does not have a cooperation agreement with a recognised cord blood bank, as there are in Ghent and Leuven? Should we not look at how far the procedure is going and whether the intermediate structure of Cryo-Save is going to go wrong today? After all, it is not ethical that, while free umbilical cord blood can be stored in recognized public banks and for family members, commercial structures soon demand EUR 1 500 for the storage, preservation and provision of cord blood. People haven't been informed about that. Perhaps one thinks that such an intermediate structure is better than a public structure, whereas the latter can also store regulatory cord blood for the family. I would therefore ask you to do more research on this, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u72	Mrs. Van Hoof, a report has been drawn up twice. That has now been referred to the courthouse. Now it's at the parquet. Perhaps you could ask whether or not the report was dismissed and whether an investigating judge was already appointed. I'd like to do that, too. We have asked the federal agency if any follow-up has been given to the case by the public prosecutor. However, that was a long time ago. I will certainly ask the Federal Agency to see if there is any change. The file is out of our hands as soon as it's forwarded to the courthouse. We can only observe the situation, make a report and pass it on to the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u73	I thank you for the information, Madam Secretary. I'll be sure to make further enquiries. Perhaps it is advisable to do a new check, unless another check has been carried out since 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u74	Question No 1415 by Mr Miller is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u75	Madam President, Minister, the Ebola epidemic in Africa since March 2014 has led our country to develop specific procedures to detect and control the spread of this disease in our country. These procedures, which concern Ebola, but could also concern any other dangerous and contagious disease, have been developed by the Ebola coordination team that you have set up and which is led by Ms. Erika Vlieghe. Although the risk of an epidemic in Belgium was considered to be very low from the outset, it was essential to be prepared to deal with cases of infection and to be able to provide adequate care. In addition to these necessary procedures, we must now, of course, also consider the creation of a highly secure, specialized treatment unit of the P4 type, as exists in several European countries, which allows for the reception and treatment of infected patients, knowing that other epidemics may have to be managed in the future. Minister, do you confirm the creation of a future specialized and highly secure treatment unit in our country? Has a timetable already been established within this framework? Can you also tell us whether it is correct that this P4 unit will be built inside a structure, such as an existing hospital? As we know, this type of highly secure structure is very expensive. Who, then, will take charge of its financing? Can a budget really be made available for its creation? Visits have apparently already been made to specialized centres in London, Hamburg and France by the Ebola coordination team. What are the first conclusions of these visits? What are the main elements that will need to be taken into account in setting up this unit? The military hospital, which has just been mentioned and whose future remains very uncertain, seems never to be mentioned in this context. Could you tell us precisely what the obstacles and the brakes have not allowed us to envisage the creation of this structure within it when, according to some, it had the ideal characteristics to play this role?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u76	My colleague, the government agreement states that the government will study the concrete modalities for the installation of a highly secure specialized unit for the treatment of contagious diseases. The FPS Health Coordination Team visited five hospitals in three different European countries for a working visit: a hospital in Lille, the Bichat Hospital in Paris, the Bégin Military Hospital in Paris, the Eppendorf University Hospital in Hamburg and the High Level Isolation Unit – The Royal Free, a hospital in London. A report will be drawn up on the basis of these visits and further information from European partners. This report will describe the different models and possibilities of care for patients with highly infectious diseases and will be transmitted to my political cell in the coming weeks or months. Of course, it's a huge job. We must also take into account the 19 cases that have proven to be negative. I am also planning a more in-depth study as part of the Health Services Research mission of the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise. The objective of this study is to identify potential target groups and to examine how to build a team of experienced, regularly trained and deployable care providers when needed. I will also draw on the expertise of the Higher Council of Health and the Risk Assessment Group of the Scientific Institute of Public Health. Finally, I will also examine whether existing hospital beds can be converted into beds for highly infectious diseases. It is therefore premature to talk about the role of some hospitals or the Defence in this matter. Abroad, it exists in hospitals, it is never an isolated hospital. There is a cost of staff training, of follow-up, because you never know what can happen. That is why there have already been five visits to three countries. We collect all the existing information - there are still a few cases in Europe - in order to know the best practices existing abroad and to form our base. Then we'll see what it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u77	Minister, I welcome the quality of your response. A timetable has been set, objectives and results to be achieved are set, expertise has been put in place. I also note that the military hospital in Paris is one of the five hospitals visited. Maybe a rapprochement can be made with our military hospital. I understand that at this stage the budgetary aspect has not been mentioned, but when you have the reports you are waiting for, it will be a second step.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u78	This will be the last question; the others can be asked next Tuesday in the morning. The speaking times have been respected. But try not to introduce any more questions for a little while!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u79	Madam Chair, I am used to introducing my clustered questions. It is essential that protontheraple treatments can be readily available for Belgian patients with oncological pathologies. At present, these patients have to go abroad to benefit from this care. Minister, what is the status of the proton therapy project in Belgium? How do you position yourself with regard to the implementation of these treatments? Do you have to give an opinion on the proposed projects? What is the number of Belgian patients treated abroad in 2014 by protontheraple? How has this number evolved in recent years? What budgets have been allocated for such support? What budget are you considering in the event of a successful proton therapy project(s) in Belgium? Do you intend to take initiatives on proton therapy, for example through our country's participation in European or international approaches such as the creation of a European register or the establishment of international clinical studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u80	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, for the time being, this is a private initiative. No commitment to co-financing or funding a protontherapy centre has been made by the federal authorities or by compulsory health insurance. Therefore, no financial resources are foreseen to this end to date. However, the National Cancer Plan provides for an annual amount of €3.862 million for the treatment of patients with hadrontherapy for whom it has therapeutic added value, as specified in the Royal Decree of 18 June 2013 laying down the conditions under which the Insurance Committee may conclude agreements pursuant to Article 56(2) of the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Co-ordinated Allowances on 14 July 1994. Within this framework, a scientific council and an agreement council have been set up within INAMI for the accompaniment of Hadrontherapy. Medical indications and procedures have been developed for referral of patients to a specialized centre for hadrontherapy, either for proton therapy or for carbon ion therapy. The new procedure has been operational since last September and currently concerns the referral of patients to foreign centres. To date, five patient applications have been processed using this new approach. They were or are being treated abroad. Other applications are being processed. For the previous period, 22 patients were treated with hadrontherapy between 2009 and 2013 and applied to the Special Solidarity Fund. We support the recommendations contained in the last KCE report, including the registration in the database of the Belgian Cancer Registry, the chemotherapeutic regimen and the radiotherapy programme – including hadrontherapy – intended and recommended for children and the opening of a European register of hadrontherapy. In the current procedure, patients are preferably referred to centres which also conduct a scientific analysis of this treatment. The data relating to the application file shall be recorded at INAMI. A supplementary record of follow-up data is negotiated in collaboration with the Cancer Registry. During the previous legislature, a list of heavy medical equipment was drawn up as part of the Memorandum of Understanding on Medical Imaging. This list includes protontherapy. All devices on this list require prior authorization from the competent minister of the federated entity before they can be placed. With respect to federal jurisdiction, I would like to inform you that my political unit is currently working on the development of an application for programming that will shortly be forwarded to the National Council of Hospital Establishments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u81	Madam Minister, thank you. For Belgium, these are private initiatives. When you say that there is no federal commitment or financial means, does this concern equipment or reimbursements? If a privately financed equipment is installed in Belgium, will patients who will benefit from it and who will no longer go abroad for treatment be reimbursed by INAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u82	The annual amount for hadrontherapy treatment remains within the intended envelope. For the rest, there is no provision for reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u83	Discussions will therefore have to take place with regard to the project to install proton therapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u84	Both! It is especially the cost that is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u85	That's why I'm asking you, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u86	This is especially the cost of installation! Indeed, given the necessary advice and the basic evidence that needs to be applied, it cannot be envisaged that the number of patients who will need this therapy will be multiplied or increased. Nevertheless, we need to ask ourselves about the merits of this investment in therapy centres, the cost of which is very high.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u87	Thank you for that further clarification. Caution should be exercised in relation to the number of patients who, in the coming years, could actually be indicated by proton therapy. Indeed, studies have been carried out on the projections of patients who are in the conditions of proton therapy and who represent, from memory, a much larger number than the figures you have quoted, namely twenty-two patients between 2009 and 2013 and five patients who have introduced a file since the beginning of the new procedure. But we will certainly have the opportunity to return. I imagine that the current projects will also require contacts and discussions on these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u88	Perhaps the European dimension of neighbouring countries is also integrated into this reflection. I think there is a centre in Lille, the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic076x.u89	We are completing our work. We will resume the questions next Tuesday where we have stopped. At her request, question No. 1849 of Mrs. Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
