ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of oral questions on the agenda, but I see that Mrs Almaci is asking to speak on the order of business. I suggest you listen to her first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u3	Mr President, you already know what this is about. I put a question to the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Marghem, who is also involved in the climate issue that was brought up against our governments in Belgium. Mrs Marghem was on the list of ministers who were not excused and would normally be present in plenary. I then received a telephone call from the services of the Chamber that Mrs Marghem would have been prevented until 16:30 because of an appointment. Mr President, there are about 30 questions on the agenda today, which cannot possibly all be completed by 4:30 p.m. I have therefore asked Parliament to be able to put the question to Mrs Marghem. At first they wanted to refer my question to Mrs Galant, without any motivation. Then I got the statement from the appointment that could run until 16:30. In view of the large number of questions that I have put to the Minister for the Environment himself, I was able to hear that the agreement would last until 7.30 p.m. Mr President, this is not a way of working. This is to decide whether to answer a question or not, whereas that question is very relevant to our country. Even so, my question from Mrs Galant to Mr Bacquelaine has gone. I think this is an unacceptable way of dealing with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u4	Mrs. Almaci, when I came in, I heard the same thing you did. I take note of that. I do not know Mrs Marghem's specific agenda. I will not comment on that, nor do I have any trouble with it. However, I do believe that there is an agreement on answering oral questions on Thursday afternoon. Consequently, it is supposed to be taken into account in its agenda, not to mention exceptions, such as the Eurogroup, European summits and so on. I will therefore write a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to be more careful. First it is said until 16:30 and you say you will wait until 16:30; then it turns out to be 19:30. That's a tough way to work. I will write a letter to the Prime Minister, with a copy to all the group chairmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u5	Mr President, thank you for writing that letter. As Members of this House, before 11 a.m. 00, the moment when the questions are to be received, we will go to the list of absences and we will ask questions on the basis of those presences. If we then hear different versions depending on whether a Member is flexible, then I think that due care should be taken about the absences and care in communicating to Members of Parliament, yours and ours. Mr President, I would like to ask you to inform Mrs Marghem now whether, as initially stated, she cannot be present. As you yourself say, Thursday afternoon is an important moment. My question is also really a question for her domain. It seems particularly serious to me if she is unable to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u6	That concludes the incident. I will indeed ask whether she can not be here at a reasonable hour. I will also write the letter to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u7	Mr President, I would like to support my colleague Mrs Almaci.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u8	Mr Hedebouw, this point has already been settled. I'm going to write this letter and ask the services to call.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u9	We know how it goes with these letters, Mr. President. Last week, we discussed the possibility of a Member of Parliament asking the question to the minister he chooses. We have not been able to do this for the Prime Minister and today we come back with subterfuges at the timing level. We should have more respect for Parliament. I hope that letter will be "pocketed," Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have the honour to welcome, up there in the presidential gallery, a parliamentary delegation of the Upper and Lower House of the Republic of India, led by Her Excellency Mrs. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker of the Lower House of the Republic of India. Madam Speaker, dear Members of Parliament, very welcome to this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u11	Mr Minister, I would like to speak today about a situation on which I am very concerned, in particular the merger of Ahold with the Delhaize Group. It is a merger of two large groups. There is talk of a turnover of EUR 50 billion. Never in our history have we experienced such a concentration of various multinationals. Tomorrow, a company will get 50 million customers a week. We are, of course, very concerned about what will happen to the workers in our country. There may be a little respect when it comes to employees. I'm very concerned about what's going to happen within the group. In my view, the employees were deceived. For two years they have been told that in order to win the competition with Ahold, it was necessary to remove 1 800 jobs. To win the competition with Ahold, it was necessary to close ten stores. What, however, is evident today? Today it appears that there was already a merger between the directors of Ahold and Delhaize at the time. The goal was clearly to make the bride much more beautiful to sell to another multinational group. If there is something unacceptable, it is to have deceived the workers in their efforts. I have some specific questions. Firstly, there is concern about working conditions. Ahold has a tradition of great flexibility. Student jobs and temporary work are the rule at Ahold. The average hourly wage for these young people in a company like Ahold is 5.96 euros. Less than 6 euros an hour in a group like Ahold! So my first question is, Minister, will the government ensure that labour law is respected in the company? My second question concerns the establishment of 50 new Ahold stores on Belgian territory. This means that there will be competition between 2016 and today in the Belgian territory of companies in the same group. Mr Minister, will the Belgian Competition Authority intervene to ensure that the laws are respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday we were able to take note of the merger plans of the Delhaize and Ahold Groups. This is important economic news to consider. Our group is also concerned about a number of issues. First of all, we fear jobs. The Delhaize workers have just had a major restructuring. They have entered into an exercise to realize the remaining employment, but they are facing this new exercise today. We read that, especially in the executive and support services, there is a fear of a loss of such a thousand jobs. A second concern is that a large part of the market will now be managed by one player. This means more concentration, less competition, an upward pressure on prices. Consumers' shopping cart is likely to be more expensive. This is a challenge for the Competition Authority. A third concern is the offer. Moreover, this has an important ecological dimension. When we go shopping, we see that Delhaize has a tradition of a short chain, with a lot of Belgian products, of suppliers from our own: our farmers, our SMEs. That short chain is about to come under pressure. I believe, Minister, that these are concerns that should concern Parliament, which should also concern you as Minister for Employment, Economics and Consumer Affairs. You have all the powers to do something about it. I come to my specific questions. Apparently, there has been a meeting between the government and the two companies. What was said there? What guarantees did you ask for? Which one did you get? Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I also believe that it is time for a more global reflection on the distribution sector and the grocery stores. There's a lot going on there, there's a lot of things moving. I think that we absolutely must take up the challenge and that you should have the discussion with this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u13	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a merger of equals. Rather, it is an absorption of Delhaize by this large Ahold group. It makes sense in this context, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that this raises concerns from the 15,000 and a few workers in Delhaize, Belgium. Concerns are about how this new group will behave in our country. My questions are therefore as follows. What will be the volume of employment and working conditions? 1,800 workers have already had to leave the Delhaize group in Belgium following a restructuring in recent months. What are the potential effects, in particular, on price dynamics in Belgium and thus on consumers? You yourself have expressed concerns not only about workers but also about consumers. Finally, I mean that the decision-making centres would be based in the Netherlands? Do you confirm this information? What will happen in Belgium? Will there still be autonomy for the management of Belgian shops?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday two companies, Delhaize and Ahold, announced their intention to merge both companies. They also announced this on the special works council yesterday. The completion of this merger will take a long time, because there are still approvals to be made by the shareholders and I think I remember that Mr Calvo has referred to this. The competition authorities at European and Belgian level will also look at this dossier. It is true that yesterday the Prime Minister and myself received the summit of Ahold and Delhaize. We have asked for texts and explanations. After all, I think that we should be very vigilant in this matter. Mr Hedebouw and Mrs Fonck are right:nous devons être très vigilantes. There is a lot at stake here. The vigilance of Parliament, and certainly of the ministers concerned in the government, can only be stepped up. Firstly, we are vigilant about employment. It is a very large company, important in its sector. In the past, agreements have been made on transition processes and certain efforts have been requested from employees. That is why, during yesterday's meeting, we clearly asked about the staff. We were assured that the commitments entered into by the Delhaize Executive Board with regard to the staff will continue to be rolled out. Secondly, the social dialogue with the workers concerned and the syndicated delegations in Delhaize is very important. At the Ahold and Delhaize summit, we asked that we communicate with a great deal of respect and care, first with the workers and secondly with the government. We want to know clearly what steps are being taken. The responsibility lies, of course, with the companies, but we do not want to be faced with very unpleasant decisions that we should read in the newspapers. That is the second question we have asked. Thirdly, it concerns companies merging with the clear vision that 1+1 is more than 2. We assume that the consumer will be able to achieve a better position than in the current situation. You are right, we are also responsible for consumer affairs, and from that point of view we will also look very closely at the consequences, not only for that new group but also for the other players in the distribution market. I'll repeat it again. First of all, the merger needs to be further rolled out. They are responsible for this, but the competition authorities at European and Belgian level will follow it closely. They do so in all autonomy, but the government will look over the shoulder to see what steps are being taken. Secondly, we are concerned about employment together with you. We will follow up on what decisions will be taken in the future, in the short and longer term. Thirdly, we will look into the impact that this has on consumers. We will also look at the way in which this new important company manifests itself in the distribution market and we will examine the effects of this on the other players in that market. With the questions and remarks that have been made, the government has been well informed. We will continue to follow the dossier very closely. I would like to reiterate that the government will remain vigilant. After all, you are right that it is a very important dossier, first and foremost for the workers and secondly for all of us, and certainly for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u15	Minister, in your opinion, a merger often involves more than two. Unfortunately, in the case of job mergers, 1+1 is often less than 2. That is the problem that will arise now, because we will want to save on the different seats. So let us be effective vigilant, Minister, and above all ensure that Ahold's entry into our market will not be used to create a hyper-flexibilisation of the labour market in the sector. That's what it's about. We do not want jobs of 6 or 7 euros per hour in Belgium. It's a specific sector. It is therefore a sector which cannot be relocated; it is a sector which needs to have its customers in Belgium. For once the alibi of international competition cannot be invoked, let the social legislation, the rights of workers and consumers in this country be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u16	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I believe that the issue must indeed link the majority and the opposition. I would like to endorse and thank many aspects of your reply. I would nevertheless like to mention three more elements at this stage. Firstly, the Competition Authority has a role to play. That too is within your jurisdiction. You're working with that. Let her be very vigilant and active. A watchdog can bite occasionally, if necessary. Secondly, in terms of jobs, I think that you should also assertively give the message that full-time and full-time jobs are important, including in this sector. In the conversations you will have, you must also give that message. Thirdly, I have also drawn attention to the suppliers, our SMEs, our farmers. A quality offer is important. Give that a place in the future conversations. I think that the matter should be discussed further in committee with a view to solutions and prospects for the workers concerned in that sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u17	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your intervention. This requires constant vigilance, not only today and tomorrow, but also the day after tomorrow. This is all the more true since it seems that all the decision-making centres would be located in the Netherlands – you did not answer this question, you did not confirm or invalidate this information. I am still doubly concerned when I hear Dutch trade unions speak. They are already talking about potential duplications, with an impact on employment in Belgium. I am counting on you, Minister, to ensure that our workers are not the turkeys of the absorption of one of our flagships, Delhaize, by this important foreign company. Finally, I also count on you to be attentive to the reality of employment in this sector: employment is very feminine, with many part-time demands. These women today are even more in a situation of fragility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my speech is wider than just the flexi-jobs system. This week, Minister, I heard you talk about workable work during an interesting speech on the radio, a subject which has dominated the political atmosphere over the last few weeks and which concerns many actors. This week, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, we discussed the retirement age in detail with some of our fellow Members until the early hours. At that time, too, this theme was often discussed. When we talk about longer careers, of course, we must also talk about how we set up these careers. Workable work is a theme that will certainly not be forgotten by us or by you either, and I can tell by the way in which you put it on the agenda in the radio broadcast and through the round table you organised. I have a specific question on the subject. The round table has started and you expect results by the end of the year. However, it is not always obvious to talk about this with employers, employees, trade unions and employers' organisations, and to see if they have the openness to include at least one important issue, especially more freedom. By this I mean more freedom in one's own work organisation and day organisation, in order to achieve the best possible balance between work and life. Is the openness of mind present to allow more individual agreements at company level, at employer level and between the parties, to make their own daily arrangements? In this context, I am thinking of teleworking, starting and stopping working at self-chosen times and the possibility of earning something without too much administrative burden and without overburdening it. My question is whether this discussion will also take place. Do you notice sufficient openness among employers' and employees' organisations to discuss this and submit results by the autumn?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lachaert, I'm glad you're opening the case. This will enable an intelligent and meaningful debate on workable work. Focusing the debate only on flexi-jobs would indeed lead us on the wrong track. A lot of people may have listened to the group of ten people, I am talking about BEL10, not the social partners, to hear what ideas they have on workable work. That has also happened in this hemisphere, and any idea is still welcome. Now we are going to work together with the Group of Ten, the National Labour Council, the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work and anyone who wishes to contribute to this work. We strive for meaningful work for everyone. We will approach this from two or three angles. In addition to the employee and the employer, I also want to involve the self-employed. We must abandon all taboos. As you rightly say, career savings, which are explicitly included in the government agreement, must also be addressed. The same applies to the sliding working hours. This should ensure that a balance can be achieved in order to enable meaningful work for all. I hope that together with the social partners in the various sectors, such as catering and construction, we can find solutions. There is a need for respect for workers and employers. I would also like to add the self-employed. We agreed to consider before the summer recess what the Group of Ten and the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work take to heart. We will add a number of ideas. In November there will be a second round table to prepare a state of affairs. There too the necessary dynamism must be realised, if it is not enough for this very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you have taken these initiatives and that we will hopefully see some results by the autumn. However, the issue that is really important to our party and that needs to be placed on the agenda is how people can organise their own work. This is particularly important to us. Recently there was a television broadcast, in which the television producers went to a company and found that workers who can organize their day and their work themselves, and can also work telework, are happier. After all, they can easily decide to stand at the school gate to pick up their child. They can be at the nursery in time without first being in traffic for an hour and then having to hurry. Those are the things that make work unworkable. We must pay attention to these factors. People need more freedom to classify their own work in their own way with more telework and more freedom of organisation. I am pleased that you yourself mentioned the self-employed. You may have read the opinion piece by Karel Van Eetvelt, the top man of an organization that is very close to your heart. He pointed out that people were always talking about workers, while self-employed people wanted to work mostly. They too must be able to find a balance between all administrative burdens and their families. I hope you will take that test with you in the discussion. Our group is putting this point on the table and we will review it regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u21	Mr Almaci, I understand from the services that Minister Marghem will be present around 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u22	Mr President, Minister, police efficiency today requires a re-evaluation of the work of our police officers and therefore a reform of this work. We've been talking about it for at least ten years. Under the previous legislature, a first work had been started to determine the current police tasks that could be carried out by other actors in the field of security, but this has not yet been completed. The government agreement provides for a greater concentration of police work on its priority tasks. I know that the government of which you are a member makes it a priority. In March, I asked you about it. You told me that you were still consulting widely, in particular the Standing Committee on the Federal Police, the social partners or associations of cities and municipalities, and that the working group initiated by your firm would make its conclusions for the summer. Today, we're in the summer, which is why I'm asking you the question. At the Reform Movement, we believe that it is high time not only to lighten police officers' administrative duties, but also to lighten their operational tasks so that we stop seeing incongruents such as the factor police officer, the inmate-carrying police officer, the embassy-supervisor police officer or the police officer behind video protection screens. My questions are quite simple, minister. Has the working group you initiated completed its mission and delivered its conclusions? If so, when can we wait for them to be translated into decisions? How much do you estimate the number of police officers reoriented to tasks closer to our citizens at the end of this reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u23	Mr President, Mr Pivin, thank you for your question. As you rightly say, it is a debate on the key tasks of police officers that has been taking place for ten years. This point is reflected in our government agreement in order to finalize this debate. As I said in March and on several occasions in the Committee on the Interior, I set up a task force, i.e. a working group that produced a report a few months ago. I would add that consultations have taken place with different stakeholders. Here too, the work is over. We are now drafting the final report. I want to present it to the government before the holidays, so that I can submit it to Parliament after the holidays. It's our calendar. It is a little too early to give you an answer in terms of volume. First of all, I want to have a political dialogue within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u24	Minister, I'm deducing two things. The first is that the timing will be respected. We'll always be in the summer. The second is that you will no doubt achieve your ends, for you are a methodical man. In any case, that is what I wish for, because six years ago I myself initiated with your predecessor, Mrs Turtelboom, the reflection that should lead to assigning MPs to police duties in front of embassies; this did not succeed. Of course, your goal is more ambitious and we will support you in achieving it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u25	Minister, there is always an extra flow of refugees during the summer months. We find the refugees at parkings and busy traffic junctions. Given the current immigration problem, neighbourhood residents see a lot more people in car parks along the E40. There's a big stream going on, as it were. In recent years, parking facilities along the E40 in Jabbeke, Westkerke and Mannekensvere have been affected. Earlier the parking in Westkerke towards France was closed. Many strangers are on their way to Calais to make the crossing to England. Last Tuesday night, another forty strangers showed up. We have had to read that the prosecutor was present with insufficient men to perform. Were they just strangers or were there human smugglers present? It is important for us to be able to act vigorously. I therefore have some very specific questions for you, Minister. It says in a circular letter that the federal police should check the parkings. Do you confirm the difficulties I have just outlined? Do you understand the problems involved? What are possible solutions? Are you in contact with your Flemish colleague to take additional infrastructure security measures in the car parks? What measures have been taken in the past to tackle the problem of aliens in car parks along the motorways?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u26	Mr. Demon, I can confirm that the federal police do regular parking checks. There are also many local police initiatives in this area. As described in protocols, local police can always use the federal police support services, for example for staff, material or specialization tasks. That cooperation is always there. It is correct that in the last few years infrastructure works have been carried out in the three car parks you mention, which have prevented smugglers and their victims from showing up here. However, that does not solve the problem. The problem then moves along the entire E40, right up to Leuven. I have been in contact this week with a local zone commander in West Flanders who has reminded me that it might not be the best solution to close those parkings. Back in the day, the police knew the refugees were in prison and they could strike very purposefully. Today they are much more widespread. This is a reflection which must certainly be taken into consideration and which must be evaluated. In addition, very recently, a working group on Transit Migration was set up this week under the impetus of Theo Francken. Transit migration is migration that takes place within Schengen. In this working group, the Federal Police were specifically asked to identify the problem of so-called transit migration and to monitor it for the whole country, to encourage police forces to take controlled action and also to develop preventive and deterrent measures. I can confirm that this working group on Transit migration will also work with the sub-regions, especially with the Flemish Region, in order to address this comprehensive issue in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u27	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that preventive action is being taken, but also that action is being taken on the ground itself if necessary. Perhaps we have two very concrete proposals in this regard. When arrests are to be made, we know that this takes a lot of time because a lot of information is spread, both locally and at federal level. In the discussions with Mr Francken, perhaps you could also talk about some sort of liaison cell. A second tool that I think can help in a very concrete way is a live scan that can take digital fingerprints so that the identification can be done very quickly. After all, we know that the people of the federal or local level present on the ground need a lot of time to identify people. Those are two things you might be able to take to your working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u28	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, your colleague from Finance, Mr. As Van Overtveldt is currently at the meeting of European Finance Ministers, which started at 1.30 p.m., you will answer us today. For weeks now, and it will probably be the apotheosis, we are witnessing a real denial of democracy vis-à-vis Greece. Indeed, imagine that tomorrow, the European establishment requires the MR/N-VA government to pursue a leftist policy. I guess you wouldn't be particularly happy. Today, the European right and the Eurogroup require Mr Tsipras to pursue, not a left-wing policy, but a real right-wing policy. The consequences are the increase in anti-European sentiment and the rise of certain forms of populism. We can see that Golden Dawn is growing in Greece. Tomorrow, beware of not having them as interlocutors! Yet austerity is continuing, in defiance of the facts. Why? Quite simply, because we wanted to save European, French and German banks - in reality their shareholders - by starvating Greek citizens. We no longer understand the meaning of all this. The choices defined by creditors, among others by the IMF, appear only as ideological and dogmatic, leading the Greek population to more poverty, unemployment, suicide – because there are! – and the destruction of the economic fabric. Yet the IMF itself says: austerity leads to the clinical death of economic development. A democratically elected government that defends choices for its people, submits proposals and advocates decent pensions, jobs, hope for its youth and health care for all is being treated with extreme, unnamed brutality. Who are the real enemies of the European project? It is those who fight against this population and its representatives. My questions will be simple. What position will Belgium stand this afternoon? Intransigence or easing of debt, taking into account other proposals? How can you explain that none of the anti-austerity proceeds, which are imposed on the euro area, has produced the expected growth and prosperity? Finally, does Belgium intend to advocate that the Commission should create new budgetary flexibilities which are essential for public investment, which the Greeks in particular and the Europeans in general - and we are asking for - need?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u29	Mr President, EUR 107 billion is the amount of Greece's public debt that has already been forgiven. The EUR 107 billion would amount to a quarter of the public debt for Belgium, but let us not dream of it. As in Spain, Portugal and Italy, the first rescue plan of Greece was effective. Those reforms had an effect, which began to bear fruit. There was economic growth again and there was even a budget surplus. Then came Syriza. Under the motto "Can otherwise" the extreme left-wing party won the election with the promise that another would pay those invoices. Reforms were reversed, public spending increased again and the country and its population were plunged into the abyss. Minister, there was no agreement at the summit meeting last Monday on a new rescue plan for Greece. Prime Minister Tsipras and Minister Varoufakis continue to hold on to a debt discharge in exchange for new promises, which one might wonder why one should keep this time. That's not at all certain. Moreover, Greece's debts have already spread enormously over time and Greece's interest charges are lower today than those of Spain and Portugal. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to strongly reject a new waiver of debts. That would blow the fence all the way off the dam. Then Spain and Portugal are next in line and perhaps even Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u30	Mr. Minister of the Interior, it is a difficult exercise that you are asked to do because you are going to have to answer in the place of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. However, we must be aware of what is happening a few hundred metres away, at the end of the street of the Act. This is not just the future of Greece, but of the whole of Europe. The timing is therefore important and justifies the questions that are being asked, even in the absence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Here I would like to address four principles related to what is being played out. 1. Grexit is not an acceptable solution to the extent that it would have a very high cost to all European economies. It would therefore give a very negative signal. 2. Austerity has shown its limits. What is happening today shows that scenarios of economy, without any nuance, on social systems, on the ability to support the economy lead to situations worse than initially. 3. The sovereignty of peoples is an important aspect. This does not mean that we can do anything, but elections have taken place in this country and, in my view, every state has the right to take options as to how to find a solution to a chronic budget deficit problem. 4. It takes time for a new government to put in place, so that it can put in place, as it has expressed the wish, a tax administration worthy of the name that can fight fraud and try to collect tax properly. Whether in Belgium or Greece, you have to be able to give time. What is happening in these negotiations? We read a lot of things. There are certainly a lot of lying pokers. I wonder about the role of the IMF, which is not an elected body, and which is trying to impose its solutions. With you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, I would like to try to take stock of these negotiations. What is the latest information you have received on this subject? Can you tell us what the role of the IMF is and, above all, what the position of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is on our behalf? Do they defend our position: no to Grexit, no to austerity for austerity, respect for sovereignty, give time to find lasting and quality solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u31	Minister of Finance, these are the stages of a case in which you do not play a glorious role. First, we put the revolver on the temple of Greece, with the "Grexit". The European Union and the IMF impose measures against the vote of the people, austerity measures that have proved their failure for years. But we're continuing in this direction. Secondly, the Greek government, against its electorate, makes huge concessions, including increases in VAT. It abolishes supplementary pensions, increases various taxes. Thirdly, he was doing what he had been asked to do, namely to respect a primary surplus of 1%. Fourthly – and that is where you are intervening with others – you find it strange that the Greek government is imposing new taxes, which are aimed at respecting the commitment to have a primary surplus of 1%. Fifthly, the IMF, now joined by the Commission and the European Central Bank, and the Troika as a whole, rejects almost all of the Greek Government's proposals. He bars them in red as a copy of a schoolboy. It's humiliating. Sixthly, the Commission, in particular Mr Moscovici, receives the three main Greek opposition parties, which agree with the European Union's proposals. What conclusion can be drawn from this, Minister of Finance? There is obviously a will to humiliate the Greek government, the Prime Minister had already played this game. This is a denial of democracy and an attempt to destabilize. You and the Troika, Minister of Finance, are aiming for the destabilization of the present Greek government. Are you acting alone or is the whole government behind you, behind this will to humiliate, deny democracy and attempt to destabilize?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Hees, I am sorry, I am not the Minister of Finance, but I am reading you his answer. The Greek Government made a series of proposals on Monday morning to reach an agreement before the programme expires on 30 June. However, due to the late reception of the proposals, the institutions did not have time to analyse them thoroughly against the meeting of the Eurogroup scheduled for Monday 22 June. That is why last Monday the Eurogroup decided to come together again later this week, in particular Wednesday 24 June. However, it turned out yesterday that too many details still needed to be clarified before we could move on to concrete negotiations. It was therefore decided to suspend the sitting until today 1 p.m. – as you said, the sitting resumed at 1.30 p.m. – so that the Greek institutions and government could continue their work during the night. The results of this night's negotiations are the subject of the current meeting, in which the Minister of Finance participates.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u33	Mr. Minister of the Interior, I understand the difficulty. Likewise, you can understand our frustration. I know you're not responsible. At the very least, it would have been nice to have some answers. The Minister of Finance could have known the questions that were going to be asked. Unfortunately, while concrete proposals from the Greek Government, which bring solutions, are on the table, I finally see that it is still being asked to return to reason. Rather, it seems to me that it is up to the Eurogroup and, in particular, to the Belgian government, to return to the path of reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Like you, of course, I hope for a successful outcome after this meeting. One thing is clear: the dossier has already taken us a great deal of time, time that our country and the European Union could have devoted to, among other things, domestic reforms, progress and investment in innovation. That's very unfortunate. The behaviour of the current extreme left-wing government in Greece has already caused almost as much misery for the Greeks as the previous left-wing governments, which created the debt. Again, a new forgiveness will certainly not cause any harm. On the contrary, then the gate is of the dam, then the next one comes. I would therefore ask you to hold on to the refusal. The only way forward for ordinary Greeks is through structural reforms. The country needs to get back on track, it needs to become competitive again, economic growth is needed and jobs must be created. To conclude, Greece needs not so much motto's as "it can be different" but rather "the power of change."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u35	Mr Dedecker, pruning to grow is not working! It doesn't work! Mr. Minister of the Interior, you have had the merit of trying to give us an answer. We could expect it to be without new information. I come to a conclusion that we should all share: we need a solution in this matter. First, I would ask you to take your gsm at the end of this debate and send a text message to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance telling them that this solution cannot be a Grexit. It's not a solution! Secondly, this solution must come out of austerity, Mr Dedecker! It has led Greece to situations that are even more difficult than the initial situation. Thirdly, it is necessary to respect – you are particularly attentive to it, it is in the genes of your party – the democratic autonomy of a people, who elected a government, who is trying to put in place solutions, perhaps not those that the IMF would like, but solutions anyway. Fourthly, Mr. Minister of the Interior and through you, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Finance, it takes time to get out of this situation. Do not present today choices of provocation that will lead to an even worse situation than that of today with consequences that you do not measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u36	Mr Jambon, congratulations, you are very much like the Minister of Finance! You miss questions like him! You played your part well! As for Mr Dedecker, who tells us that it has been since Syriza was in power that there is a problem, I will show you this picture. The IMF with previous governments expected the economy to decline by 2.6 per cent. In 2011, it decreased by 7.1 per cent. By 1.1%, it fell by 7%! In 2013, it decreased by 4.2%! What we see is that the purpose of the troika is not to help Greece, nor to be reimbursed, but when Greece respects the primary surplus, we don't care. What the troika wants is to impose a dictatorship as an example to the whole of Europe so that a government cannot take another path than that of austerity. That is the real purpose of this troika policy! I call those who hear us at the rally that is being held today at 5.30 p.m. between the European quarter and the 50th anniversary park. It's the little street of the law, not the big one! At 5:30 p.m., solidarity with the Greek people!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I fully understand that your colleague the Minister of Finance is required today and yesterday by the Greek situation, which is indeed very serious. I would like, through you, to draw his attention to the situation of Belgian taxpayers, who are facing the deadline of 30 June, an imminent deadline, and to the frights of the tax return they must return by that date. The Minister of Finance himself acknowledged that this tax return was made much more difficult as a result of the sixth reform of the state. He also wanted to find ways to answer as much as possible questions, questions and requests for assistance from taxpayers. It had estimated the cost of this assistance from the Finance FPS at EUR 4.5 million. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the efforts of FPS Finance officers who show great availability and educational sense to try, through individual caucuses or through the media, to answer the many questions of taxpayers. But obviously, however laudable they may be, these efforts are not sufficient when one sees the lines lying in front of the places of permanence, when one sometimes sees certain scenes of exasperation. Mr.Minister, there would certainly be room for questioning the complexity of both our tax system and the tax return, but that is not what I am talking about today. I would simply like to ask you whether the indulgence to which the Minister of Finance referred a few weeks ago could not translate very concretely into a postponement of the deadline of 30 June, given the complexity of the tax declaration and the difficulty of the FPS Finances in dealing with the influx of demands. I believe that this delay would be a gesture appreciated by taxpayers who face these many difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u38	Mr President, Mr Dispa, I give you the answer that the Minister of Finance sent me. "Every year, my administration makes every effort to ensure that all taxpayers who wish to do so receive assistance to complete their tax returns within the deadlines set. As regards the declarations made by our agents in the offices, communes or during the filling aid sessions, you will find that the number of declarations submitted so far corresponds roughly to that of last year on the same date. This year, we are talking about about 720,000 for 750,000 last year. As at 30 June last year, 850,000 declarations had been submitted. The capacity of our services in filling assistance is approximately 40,000 tax-on-web statements per day. On this basis, it is therefore not appropriate, at this stage, to grant an additional period of time in relation to the final date of receipt of the paper declaration. On the contrary, the granting of a time limit could even be counterproductive. Indeed, some taxpayers could delay their arrival in our offices. It is not easy for our services to provide the same level of service in July as in June. Some of our officials are in fact on vacation at that time. As I indicated at the June 11 session, if problems were to occur, the tax authorities will be flexible. The deadline for submitting the completed declaration will therefore not be extended."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm telling you, she doesn't satisfy me. In sum, you object to an end to not receiving about the difficulties faced by many taxpayers. There is one element that you must not ignore, namely that any taxpayer who, in good faith, would have to file his or her declaration late, simply for reasons related to the difficulty of this exercise, is liable to fines ranging from 50 to 1,250 euros. This is not nothing for taxpayers who, for the most part, do not have the means to call on accounting experts, tax lawyers or tax engineering offices. Your Government is able, when it deems it useful, to demonstrate a great deal of understanding and even lack of understanding of certain sectors by accepting certain requests. In this case, I find that it is much less understanding of average taxpayers than of, for example, the diamond industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u40	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for answering this question, which was addressed to the Secretary of State. The Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities published its 2014 annual report on Wednesday. With regard to the integration of persons with disabilities, the report highlights our country, noting in particular that the number of cases concerning disability-related discrimination increased by 25 per cent in 2014. The information is not new since Belgium had already been marked as a bad pupil last year in the report of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. A series of recommendations had then been made. One of the most worrying aspects is the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. Indeed, it appears that only 40% of disabled people work, compared with an average of 67% for all the 20-64 age group in Belgium. The situation is problematic both in the private sector and in the public service where the quotas of 2.5 to 3 per cent of workers with disabilities imposed on federal public services are not met. The percentage in the public was only 1.57% in 2013. I am not teaching you anything: employment is a top priority for my party and for this government. Employment for all, including persons with disabilities. Therefore, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. In her policy note, the Secretary of State rightly referred to the United Nations recommendations in that regard. The aim was to organise a consultation with the different levels of power and with the different administrations. Can you tell us if this consultation has already taken place? What was the result? From that point on, what action do you intend to take on the recommendations of the United Nations? With regard to integration into the labour market, what are the concrete ways in which you can encourage the involvement of these people with disabilities? Will these measures concern both the public service and the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I learned this morning that an oral question which I introduced in the Committee on Social Affairs was included in the topical issues this afternoon in plenary. Indeed, Mr President, when I see the agenda, I note that my oral question in the Social Affairs Committee dates from 3 February 2015 at 2:55 p.m. So, since 3 February, Mrs Sleurs has not found time to come and answer the questions in the Social Affairs Committee. It's June 25. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that the situation is the same in the Committee on the Economy. I would like to ask that the ministers and the members of the government be at the disposal of Parliament so that we can exercise our control over the government. I would also point out that Ms. Sleurs' office asked us to withdraw our questions or turn them into written questions because she could not answer them until the summer break. That being said, the Royal Decree of 5 March 2007 set an ambitious goal of including 3% of persons with disabilities in the federal public service. It is an ambitious decision and it is true that the integration of disabled people into society and public employment is an obvious issue. It is good that we can talk about this in plenary. The Committee on the Recruitment of Persons with Disabilities has issued its report, as Mrs Thoron said. She cited figures: instead of the 3% target, we are at 1.57%. There was an intention in the guidance note. The policy note was intended and it was stated relatively vaguely that action would be taken. There was nothing to report in these two documents. My questions are therefore the same as those of Mrs Thoron: what is the Minister doing? It has not submitted any projects since the beginning of this government. No projects have arrived in the Social Affairs Committee. How does it plan to reach these 3%? What measures will be taken? How does she coordinate with the Minister of the Public Service since her jurisdiction in this matter is cross-cutting? What applies to employment in the Federal Public Service is reflected in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u42	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, "a world of work closed to disabled people", this is the conclusion drawn by the Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities. He added that in 2014, the number of cases involving disability-related discrimination increased by 25%. These are, of course, implacable findings and conclusions in relation to the enormous work that the government, in this case the minister, must carry out. Minister, this requires at least an information campaign on employment. Indeed, anti-discrimination legislation for persons with disabilities does not appear to be known. That's the least we can say! Furthermore, does the Secretary of State in charge intend to intervene with all federal public services to ensure that the legal quota of 3% is guaranteed at the level of the public service? Indeed, today only half of this quota is reached. Finally, is it not time for the Secretary of State to assume her role as conductor? Indeed, that is what this is all about. This issue is indeed a matter for the federal government, even if it is not the only one with jurisdiction over the matter. But if she who is in charge of this competence does not take her pilgrim's staff and does not act all the decision-making levers where possible, we will not, together, advance the cause of people with disabilities, which must be our goal for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will read the answer that Mrs Sleurs has given me. We aspire to an inclusive society. People with disabilities do not exist, unlike a society with obstacles. It is clear today that, alas, society is still plagued by obstacles and prejudices that prevent people with disabilities from participating fully and effectively in society on an equal footing. The inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market still has a large margin of progress. Both in the public sector, which should have an example role, and in the private sector, it is frightening to see how few people with disabilities are employed. Although the figure in the public sector is only 3 per cent, in 2013 the figure was barely 1.5 per cent. In the private sector, participation in the work of persons with disabilities is 30 per cent lower than the participation of persons with no functional disabilities. That's a serious problem. Indeed, a job offers more than an income, it offers a social life, an occupation, contacts, it allows to acquire skills. The government is fully aware of this. That is why we are fighting for a number of concrete projects. The first is the activation of persons with disabilities by the professional placement services of the federated entities. As you know, INAMI and regional professional placement services have entered into agreements in recent years to help long-term patients get back to work. To this end, suitable employment can be obtained, but also, for example, training or vocational rehabilitation. This method will be extended in the short term to persons with disabilities. An agreement in principle has been reached between my administration and INAMI so that persons with disabilities can use these supervisory measures. A technical working group is in the process of developing the details. The second example is the ID@work project. With this project, we aim to remove the current barriers to preparing businesses to employ people with disabilities. This is a scientific project developed by The Antwerp Management School (AMS) and HEC-ULg. Through this project, we intend to produce a study on the inclusion of people with mental disabilities in the workplace. On this basis, tools will be developed for employers. These are simple and very practical applications to check whether the company has jobs suitable for disabled people or whether an adaptation should be made to make them accessible. The government also wants to call on employers not to let talent slip away and to reflect the diversity of our society by developing new job vacancies. As a result of the government agreement and our policy briefs, we will again be launching several projects this year to provide more opportunities for people with disabilities in the labour market, depending on their own opportunities. The attention given to these projects will also be used to raise awareness of anti-discrimination legislation. The evaluation of the 2007 anti-discrimination laws will also provide an opportunity to address the issue of discrimination in the labour market due to disability. This will allow us to adjust the existing arrangements of the legislation. I am thinking in particular of the burden of proof and repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u44	Minister, thank you for that clear answer. The urgency is there, if we want people with disabilities to be better included in our society. I note and welcome some of the elements that you have shared with us, such as the agreement in principle with INAMI and the tool that is being prepared to raise awareness and help companies hire people with disabilities. Of course, I will remain attentive to this question and will certainly return to the Secretary of State. As I said before, employment is a priority for my party and for this government – employment for all, including people with disabilities. The MR hopes that this government's initiatives will be positive in contrast to the bad results achieved so far in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u45	I think we should congratulate Mr Jambon on his versatility this afternoon. As much as we can understand, it is he who responds to finance, so much about the policy of people with disabilities, it is another situation, as I said. The guidance note was quite indigent. The policy note has been slightly improved on the basis of comments from colleagues in committee. Here, at the level of concrete measures, we have not heard much. Of course, it is a cross-cutting competence that requires energy, which requires a will. I really don't feel that will in the head of the Secretary of State. I want to say, as in the fight against tax fraud, entrust this policy to a member of the government who really wants to take care of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for responding for your colleague. I can agree with the very generalist comments, but this is obviously not enough. It is time to take concrete decisions, especially to set numerical targets and achieve them. In this case, I am making a very simple suggestion. That Minister Sleurs require federal public services to meet the 2.5% and 3% disability quotas. We would already make great progress and, frankly, if the public service is not in a position to give it the urgency, then we will not be able to advance this cause at the level of the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u47	Mr President, Minister, you met Wednesday morning with representatives of the Brussels Support Centre (CAB). You reassured them about the arrears of payment, but, on the other hand, your comments about the future of this Centre are less optimistic. You would only have committed yourself to trying to release funds during the next budgetary control in September. Under these conditions and pending the promised miracle, this institution is expected to close next October. Do you know that the CAB deals with some 300 cases of sexual offenders per year? If it closes, the conditions of parole or probation will no longer be met. It is therefore also a financial miscalculation since sex offenders in prison will remain there, which could cost more than EUR 5 million per year. Admit that the 36 000 euros of savings out of the 180 000 euros of the budget of the CAB are derisory in relation to the expected additional cost. Already today, the essential care of these people, who should start in prison, is not, due to lack of sufficient resources. You, who say that the fight against recidivism is a priority, boycott the work of this service, which, however, carries out decisive actions against recidivism. Minister, what are the conclusions of your meeting with the CAB? For people working in the CAB, the situation is difficult. They must carry out their mission without knowing how long it will continue. What slogan has been given to them for the future? Should they now stop setting appointments that they would no longer be able to provide from September? You said that, personally, you supported the CAB and you certainly did not want it to disappear. Have you received a similar message from the government? If so, what solutions do you intend to bring to the CAB in the short, medium and long term? Otherwise, have you planned for Brussels sex offenders to be taken care of by the centres in Tournai and Antwerp? What consequences will this disappearance have on the federated entities responsible for monitoring offenders and complying with the conditions issued by the judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u48	Mr President, Minister, in plenary session on June 4, 2015, my colleague, Olivier Maingain, asked you about the 20% reduction in subsidies that you are imposing on the Brussels Support Centre in charge of therapeutic follow-up, as my colleague has just said, of about 300 sex offenders. This monitoring helps to promote their social reintegration and halves the rate of recidivism. In your answer, Minister, you justify your decision by the fact that the grants granted to the country's three support centres are voluntary allocations, which should be reviewed in a difficult budgetary context, while saying that you are ready to discuss with the federated entities the possibilities of supporting these centres. Minister, it is by no means up to the federated entities to compensate for the defaults of the federal state in an area expressly reserved for you by law. The current distribution key of the three support centres (40% for UFC in Antwerp, 40% for the Legal Psychopathology Unit in Tournai and 20% for the CAB) is also totally inadequate. First, it is inadequate for the number of cases handled by these different centres: 3 full-time for 300 cases for the CAB, as against 120 and 150 for the other centres. Secondly, it is inadequate for their funding. The CAB is the only support centre to depend exclusively on the FPS Justice grant. Finally, it is inadequate for their respective missions. Minister, you are calling for the release of funds in the next fiscal adjustment in September, but it will be too late. Are you aware that the costs associated with the maintenance of offenders transferred to prison and the recidivism of offenders released without therapeutic follow-up are in millions of euros and that they are significantly higher than the grants awarded to the CAB in thousands of euros? In addition, who will be responsible for the termination benefits of CAB employees due to a budget reduction decision attributable to the CWS Justice and not to the directors of the Centre? Finally, if the CAB were to close in October, which is not desirable at all, how will these missions be carried out by the Justice FPS?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u49	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for this too long question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u50	Mr President, I am not going to repeat everything that has been said. Minister, as we know, the Department of Justice is not spared by economic measures. The Brussels Support Centre, which is being discussed today, is facing a linear 20% reduction in costs following the instructions given. According to CAB officials, this represents two half-times less, and therefore a significant impact on the processing of cases for sex offenders who wish to be treated in this Centre. They therefore consider that they cannot work in this way. Minister, what were the conclusions of the recent meeting? What opportunities exist to enable the CAB to continue its work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u51	Mr. Minister, Government puts a knife in front of rapists and paedophiles, which we got this morning with our coffee. Rapists and paedophiles released under conditions often have to follow treatment to prevent relapses. We have three regional support centres in our country to help them: directly, but much more so as support for the so many services and support organisations on land, and also to support the judicial assistants. It is these three regional centres that are now getting 20% savings split in the stomach. That means firing people and thus less guidance. For one center even the closure threatens. It also means less guidance for all those support centres that use the content of the support centres. The consequences are not bad. No treatment means no release, longer in prison and then without treatment back into society, with a greater risk of relapse. That is bad for the individual, and that is bad for society. Is it not on this point that we unanimously adopted a number of recommendations last legislative term, which, among other things, place the role of these regional centres at the centre of attention? I am referring to the abuses in the Church that we dealt with in the previous legislature. You were with the sector yesterday, Minister. I am sure you are concerned about the matter, but you have told them that there is no solution for the time being. My question is as brief as it is simple: what slopes will be followed to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u52	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I had to ask you again yesterday, when you gave me an appointment on June 4, when I asked you urgently about the difficult situation of the Brussels Support Centre responsible for accompanying and monitoring sex offenders. I was questioning you on 4 June, because this small service receives small subsidies (€180,000) to which you want to apply a linear reduction of 20% for voluntary allowances. While it is a matter of implementing the government agreement, this government agreement is blind for certain policies. This amount of €180,000, which allows three psychologists working part-time to accompany 300 sex offenders, you want to reduce it to €140,000. When you form a small team, you don't know how to save! Reducing the subsidy means reducing the staff. How do you want to accompany so many people with fewer staff? Knowing more that this accompaniment costs less than putting these people in prison and that it is more effective. In prison, they do not benefit from this support and when they leave, they are finally delivered to themselves, increasing the rate of recidivism. I also drew your attention to the fact that the 2014 balances had not been paid, nor did the first instalment of 2015. In your answer, you told me that the allocation had been reduced because the entire budget envelope had not been used, which was paradoxical and perverse as an answer. Finally, you said that you wanted to examine the possibility of additional funding in the head of the Brussels federated entities, an element of response that I could not accept to which I told you that this jurisdiction was solely federal. You asked me to ask you again to give me more answers and solutions. That's why I'm asking you this day. I wanted to add that the bank accounts were blocked by the FPS Finances. The ONSS sent a bailiff, because the FPS Justice does not pay the subsidies due.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking me this question again. I apologize, Mrs Jiroflée, for the consternation I caused in your morning coffee. I won't do that again. Anyway, yesterday I had a meeting with the people of the three centres concerned. During this interview, I comforted them as much as possible. I informed them that, during the budgetary control in September, I will do my best to obtain the additional resources they need. So I ask you to show some patience. In addition, it may be possible to involve the Communities, where appropriate. But I do not want to commit myself, for the time being, to this on behalf of my colleagues. In addition, last year's balance of payments was cleared on June 17. The royal decrees granting subsidies for this year were adopted on 19 June. My services will pay these subsidies no later than the end of next week. The CAB is particularly concerned as it is not supported by universities, unlike the other two centres. Nevertheless, the Brussels centre still finds some support with the Justice FPS, which takes over part of its operation. As I said before, I will do my best, but I must have the agreement of the government, which will only be possible in September. The urgency of the matter will only arise in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u54	Minister, I hear that we have to wait for the budgetary control in September. Understand that this answer cannot satisfy us. Indeed, these workers have no certainty as to their professional future. There is also a problem for those who do not know by whom they will be dealt with in the medium term. So we invite you to insist heavily on the government...are you okay? Do you want me to interest you? ...to unlock the situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u55	Mr. President, this is intolerable... (...)... with Mr. Van Biesen, this is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u56	Especially on subjects like this one!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. I feel that you are a human being and that this problem certainly bothers you very much. You'll have to convince your government colleagues because it's the same thing every time, it's budget restrictions every time. In a subject like this, we have no right to be wrong! Close this center, what does that mean? This means putting hundreds of sex offenders, either on the street or in prison. That's the choice. In prison, what will it cost you? That is what you will have to say to your colleagues in the government. Last night, I was watching the show about the Dutroux affair. It really makes you think. It was following this Dutroux case that these three centres were created, and today we are talking about the closure of one of them. Minister, I am really asking you to put all the arguments in your pipeline to convince your government colleagues not to drop this centre, but to continue to subsidize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u59	Minister, I am particularly pleased that you are looking for further solutions, but I should like to say the following. The government seems to me to be singing a repetitive tune, in the sense that heavy savings are made first and then with the poor in the air to find solutions. In fact, we have noticed this in other cases over the last few months. I think you know better than anyone that staying in prison costs a lot more than an outpatient treatment. My bomba always said "think before you start." Maybe the government should listen a little more to the bombs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u60	The government is also finding a lot of solutions, and the minister's work is to be welcomed. This is not an easy job, as I often have the opportunity to say. I hear you're also a lawyer for this Centre, whose important work you consider important. I hope that we can find solutions to ensure the continuity of this service and how to finance it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u61	Minister, you will therefore honour your commitments in 2014 and the first instalment of 2015 by paying the late subsidies. In doing so, you will allow the CAB to remain for a few months. However, given the answer you have given, this Centre will have to give provisional notice, since it has no guarantee of what will happen to the budgetary control in September. I do not understand that you cannot get an agreement from your government, even if it is to say that it will be in September that you will change the budget lines so that they have the money they need and that you will give up this stupid idea of minus 20% for these centres. Otherwise, they remain uncertain and cannot have the guarantee that they will be able to continue beyond September. Mr. Van Overtveldt had made the same promise to us for the Maintenance Receivables Service (SECAL). He said that the 8 million missing would be in the budget adjustment that we are voting on today. But they're not there. It's delayed. If you do the same to us with the CAB, this service will simply be deleted. Thank you for paying the subsidies that are late, which is normal. I urge you to get the government's agreement this week to let this Centre know that in September its situation will be regularized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u62	Minister, I was surprised to learn that at last, perhaps for the first time in decades, the overpopulation in our prisons has fallen. The reasons are obvious. We have invested in the prison system and care places have finally been created for prisoners outside prison. Good cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Office has also been ensured so that asylum seekers can be effectively extradited without a permit for their punishment, in 2014 more than 600 and this year apparently already 400, according to the media. Minister, there are still problems, otherwise I would not be standing here today. Last week we heard from the media that two girls under 16 were locked in a police cell because there is no place in the Community institutions. There is also another strike in a prison where many persons reside in detention, for whom the presumption of innocence applies. This means, among other things, that medication is not distributed, that showering is limited and that there is no walk. This leads to inhumane circumstances for those who reside there for the time being. Minister, we have come a long way with regard to strikes in prisons. We have reached a protocol agreement, which has now been evaluated. At the end of 2014, you announced that you would consult with the trade unions and then implement the government agreement to provide the guaranteed service in prisons. Mr Minister, my questions are very simple. First of all, what is the state of play? What is the outcome of the consultation? Is it now a guaranteed service in prisons? Secondly, are you in consultation with your colleagues from the Länder on the problem of places for minors in health care institutions? I know that's not your jurisdiction, but the execution of the sentences is within your jurisdiction. So you will have to consult on this after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u63	Mrs Van Cauter, thank you for both the good and the bad news. The good news is that the prison population is clearly falling as a result of the outflow into specialised internment institutions and improved repatriation. We are at about 150 percent of last year's rate of repatriation. For example, the Treaty with Kosovo, which you recently approved, contributes to this. As far as your two specific questions are concerned, I have a great deal of discretion to show. Negotiations with trade unions have been very intense so far. On 22 June last, they communicated on the application of Protocol 351 and incident management. This was a meeting devoted to the provision of guaranteed services. The coalition agreement insists that a solution must be found by the end of this year, otherwise the government itself will submit a solution to Parliament. We are working on this as well and as hard as possible, but it is clear that it is a very delicate issue which needs to be dealt with with with caution, including in terms of rationalisation. As far as your question on the Community institutions and the juvenile court is concerned, it is true that the institutions are a Community competence and that forced entry into these institutions raises a problem. But in prison one can always drop people, which is not the case in a community institution. That is why I had discussions this morning with Mr Vandeurzen on the issue. Although he is competent, we must pull the same string together as much as possible. We will certainly have further discussions on this in the interministerial committee on justice houses shortly, where this kind of problem is usually raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u64	Minister, I believe that the citizens have little message of discussion of competences, whether between the Länder and the federal government or between the union and politics. It doesn't matter. We expect solutions and we are counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u65	Minister, it has been a while since I asked you another question about ARCO. At this point, however, the ARCOPAR General Assembly will take place a little further. As you know, the co-ops can go there. They shall have the right to vote on any motions. They may also ask questions to the liquidators. Those liquidators are at the same time the directors who have run the organisation all these years and who have taken the most irresponsible, speculative risk with people's savings. Those who may not be present today are Christine Van Goethemd from Leopoldsburg. Mrs. Van Goethemd suffers from the nervous disease MS and moves into a wheelchair. It asked the management of that ACW company whether it could be brought to the general meeting under the direction of its permanent supervisor. The answer was striking. It was coldly no, because that supervisor is not a shareholder of ARCOPAR. We can't let him in. I find that very strange, but those who know the history of the whole thing have already realised that ARCOPAR is not the most warm and social organisation. I've talked about that several times. I cannot therefore believe, Minister, that such discrimination would be justified. Each company must organise a general meeting each year at which each shareholder is welcome. I assume this also applies to shareholders with disabilities. Mr Minister, can you confirm to me, as Minister of Justice, that you have a great deal of experience in company law in this area, that the duty to welcome each shareholder also applies to shareholders with disabilities? For me, that seems not only to me to be a matter of basic decency, but also of non-discrimination. We do not discriminate against blind people with a guide dog, let alone discriminate against people with another handicap who need a companion, either a professional guide or a caregiver. That's impossible, isn't it? Minister, what does the law say about this? What can't and what can't?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u66	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I do not think that the answer to many of your questions can be found in law but in common sense. However, you are asking me about the law. Well, company law is tacit on that point. That is, one can usually vote by proxy, be represented by another shareholder. Even in a cooperative society, the law provides for remote voting with the provision of an electronic means of communication. If it is not common sense, nor in the company law, then I think the answer to your question should be sought in the anti-discrimination law of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. That law prohibits, in principle, any direct and indirect distinction based, inter alia, on disability. I am aware that lawyers regularly ask to be admitted together with their client-vennut or shareholder. I would therefore be inclined, in answer to the question you are asking, to combine both company law and anti-discrimination law to answer that this should also be possible in this case. You are kind enough to refer to my knowledge of justice and company law, and that is why I dare to refer you to the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Mrs Elke Sleurs, who is without doubt even better armed than I am in the field of anti-discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u67	Mr. Secretary of State, Secretary of State Sleurs is apologized today, which is why I appeal to your expertise. Indeed, I am explicitly asking for the law. In the last few years we have seen that common sense is not really present in that company and we know what that has led to. Thank you for your answer on this point. You have made a clear reference to company law and also to the anti-discrimination law. I think it is quite clear that we must never accept that people are being coldly pointed at the door for that reason. I would like to conclude with a quote from a esteemed colleague from the CD&V group who says it is not because it calls itself movement.net today, that it is also a decent movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one in nine women get breast cancer in this country. That's a huge number. Ladies, look around. One in nine, which means that several of us will be confronted with this. Fortunately, there is good news for these patients. The therapy has improved enormously and breast cancer is no longer a death sentence. In addition, breast-saving surgery is increasingly being performed. Unfortunately, a percentage of women still only benefit from full breast amputation. Fortunately, there are several reconstruction techniques for this. This also applies to women who have both breasts amputated preventively if they are genetically predisposed to breast cancer. A first method of reconstruction is done with silicone implants. This is a relatively simple procedure, which is carried out fairly quickly. Moreover, it is also a relatively cheap procedure in the short term. Unfortunately, these implants need to be replaced several times in women's lives and therefore come with recurring costs and risks. The alternative is a DIEP flap surgery, a reconstruction with its own tissue. This is initially a more expensive and much more difficult intervention but offers a sustainable result. Once the breast has been reconstructed, all costs have been done. A number of cases have recently appeared in the media, and questions have already been asked about this during the previous legislature. It was assured that both techniques were fully reimbursed for all women. However, we see that several patients today complain that supplements are charged up to EUR 4 000 in the case of a bilateral reconstruction. Some patients take action, others do crowdfunding with the demand to deposit and for example 50 euros to help them reconstruct their breasts. When this came to my attention, I started asking where the EUR 4 000 came from. Now it turns out the surgeon's reimbursement is hopelessly behind schedule. The surgeon can't cover the cost for this refund. So the patient gets into trouble and is forced to choose. She ends up in a financial noose. Sometimes it has to negotiate with the hospitalisation insurance company to see if the costs can qualify for a reconstruction. Sometimes they unwittingly end up without a breast. Madam Secretary, as a doctor, you understand the nomenclature better than your predecessors who were not medically trained. So I also know that you understand that the current reimbursement is not enough for a DIEP flapping surgery. The nomenclature needs to be revised and I ask you to ensure that the costs in this respect are brought to an acceptable level, both for patients and for surgeons. Can you follow me on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, my colleague Mr Delizée said earlier that Mrs Sleurs did not often have time to come to committee. You, you come, but the questions are still accumulating. If I find myself in this rostrum this afternoon, it is simply because this question goes back to committee. I hope the President will ensure that we can have answers to our questions in the coming weeks. I'm gonna be a lot less technical. I've already been asked why a man is interested in this problem. I'm extremely serious, because I already hear the Quolibets. First, I am, like many other men, touched in my immediate environment by this problem. Secondly, we must also know and remind – Mrs Capoen, I think you are a doctor, as well as the minister – that this type of cancer also affects a small percentage of men. You often forget to say it. Minister, my questions are simple. My colleague planted the set. It appears from our information that a number of plastic surgeons would implement questionable practices in breast reconstructions. My colleague has just referred to the various techniques used. Since 2012, plastic surgeons have been receiving specific financial assistance under the INAMI nomenclature for this type of intervention. While it is undeniable that there is an aesthetic intervention in these practices, this intervention, which remains strictly curative, is fully covered and reimbursed by INAMI. Minister, do you confirm the existence of unacceptable practices implemented by some physicians? Is there an overbilling by the invoice of a part on the aesthetic aspect? If so, are sanctions possible? Who can take these sanctions? Have you had any contact with the College of Physicians in this area? Don't you think that we should conduct a more detailed analysis of the actual costs incurred by these patients through the details of the billings that the benefits gave rise to? I think that would be helpful. Thank you for giving me your feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, Mr Frédéric, the cost of these complex breast reconstructions in the treatment of breast cancer has been regularly updated in recent years. There is indeed insufficient financial legal certainty for the patients concerned. The treating plastic surgeons regularly or even systematically charge pay supplements that are sometimes very high indeed and also charge so-called aesthetic supplements. My predecessor commissioned a study in this area from the Federal Centre of Health Care Expertise (KCE) in 2013. The aim of the study is to determine in an objective and transparent manner the cost structure of these interventions and, on this basis, to formulate proposals for the adaptation of the nomenclature. The KCE will provide the study at the end of September this year The Medicomut agreement 2013-2014 already included a 50% revaluation of the nomenclature codes for reconstructive surgery of the breast. The agreement stipulates that the revaluation will be carried out after consultation with representatives of the Plastic Surgery Association in order to ensure a proportionate reduction of the supplements used. That is indeed not an easy consultation. However, it is still running. However, I cannot anticipate the outcome of the discussions in this area. Nevertheless, I follow this file closely. This is a very vulnerable group of cancer patients. I am committed to optimizing the accessibility of this treatment, which is very important for their quality of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u71	Madam Minister, I understand that this is a very difficult matter and that it must, of course, be done in consultation with the sector and patient groups. However, I would also like to point out that the N-VA is always looking for ways of efficiently spending resources in health care. We are therefore also looking for savings that do not happen on the patient's hood. We look for the fraudsters and the cowboys and try to get them out in such a way that the funds are released for the patient. We also stand for long-term thinking in health care, sometimes with an initial investment in the longer term being cheaper. That is not the socialist view in which everything is paid back on paper, but in practice the patient remains in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I knew you were aware of the problem. We will therefore await the results of the KCE study by the end of September. In any case, I would like to reiterate to you that it seems to me quite intolerable that plastic doctors can take advantage of the dramatic state in which people with breast cancer are in, and that they must also undergo ablation and reconstruction, by overbilling and making money on people's misfortune. I therefore believe that it is our responsibility to identify those who resort to these abnormal practices, so that they are punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u73	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs had been explicit in his statement on the situation in Burundi. He had indicated that the government would not recognize Pierre Nkurunziza if he were to force his re-election in violation of the Arusha peace agreements and the Burundian Constitution. Despite calls from the heads of State of the East African community and the African Union, Bujumbura is determined to go to the elections on 29 June 2015. Even yesterday, Mr. Nkurunziza's government and his CNDD-FDD party blocked the dialogue initiated by the new UN mediator in collaboration with the African Union Special Envoy and the Secretary-General of the East African community. In a press release of 23 June, the CNDD-FDD party stated that its priority is the continuity of the electoral campaign for the communes and the legislatures next Monday. He warned, I quote: "Anyone who tries to stop the electoral process, whether Burundian or foreign, will be considered by the CNDD-FDD party on an equal footing with those who tried to overthrow power by a putsch on 13 May 2015." One of the two vice-presidents, Mr.Gervais Rufyikiri, said last night on the France 24 channel that he was disassociating President Nkurunziza and that he was not returning to the country. The President of the National Assembly Pie Ntavyohanyuma left the country last night. Minister, all analysts fear that a civil war will be inevitable in this country, with a great risk of resurgence of ethnic antagonisms that could cause the entire Great Lakes region to explode. So my questions are as follows. What are you going to do about this determination of power in Bujumbura? Don't you think that we need to go beyond the mere threat-by-declaration phase and consider pressures? Finally, what is the government doing to get the European Union, which seems reluctant, to take urgent coercive measures against the Bujumbura authorities? The imminent armed conflict and the ensuing humanitarian danger require prompt and concrete responses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u74	Minister, I would like to ask the Belgian Government a question about Burundi and the events of recent weeks and days. Belgium is an important country for Burundi and Burundi is an important country for Belgium. Every year we spend EUR 47 million on development cooperation for Burundi, which makes us the third largest donor and the first bilateral donor. There is no country in the world that supports Burundi so much. Burundi is also important to Belgium because of our historical links with the Great Lakes region. We all have an interest in a stable, prosperous Burundi, hence our efforts. Hence our deep concern about what is going on. On 29 June there will be parliamentary elections, and that is no longer the case. On July 15th, I thought there were presidential elections. The current President Nkurunziza aspires to a third term. This goes against the Arusha agreement and would seriously threaten stability in the region. The opposition is being silenced at the moment. There's no more freedom of the press. Today we read in the newspaper that the second Deputy Prime Minister from Burundi fled to Belgium. In other words, a very worrying and repressive movement is taking place in Burundi. We have seen that Minister De Croo is not too bad to use development cooperation, and he is right to do so as a means of exerting pressure to ensure that the regime in Burundi respects human rights and democracy. Mr De Croo is responsible for development cooperation, Mr Reynders for foreign affairs. What does Mr Reynders do? Is he using his diplomacy to give a clear signal, or is he sending a signal to the ambassador, for example, or is he having perpetrators of violence or human rights violations prosecuted and sanctioned? Until today, we don't see any of that. The government is therefore divided and not strong enough. I repeat that we have an important role to play in relation to that country. We can do much more than we can do today. Minister, we are in good shape with regard to development cooperation, but what is the Foreign Affairs Office doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the subject has been discussed here several times in plenary. The problems were outlined by previous speakers. Following Nkurunziza's announcement in April of a third mandate, a crisis has arisen. The question is whether elections are credible today if the opposition is silenced, arrested or even murdered, if the local NGOs and Europe and Belgium stop their observation missions, if the Catholic authorities on the ground say they are no longer helping to organise the electoral process and if the Vice-President of the incumbent government, we hear today, has fled the country and is seeking refuge in Belgium. Moreover, what are the chances in the democratic process of an opposition after Monday 29 June? It is essential to put pressure on Burundi in any way to safeguard the democratic system. Ministers De Croo and Reynders have already made some good decisions. They have given clear signals. I believe that there is a need for lasting diplomatic pressure today. They must also, in particular, put pressure on human rights violations. International action must be taken against those who have people picked up or killed at random. I look forward to your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u76	Mr President, Minister, the situation in Burundi remains very tense. A few days ago, CENI published an electoral calendar which provides for the parliamentary and communal elections on 29 June and the presidential elections on 15 July. Minister, I am particularly puzzled by this timetable when we know that many members of the opposition parties and the population are still in exile, that the private and independent media have been destroyed and, finally, that police repression and young militias continue to spread terror. In the context we know, it is essential that the Burundian media can continue their role of informing the population. During our exchange of views in the Committee on External Relations on 20 May, Mr Reynders said that Belgium should participate, with European and international partners, in rebuilding the capacity for freedom of expression. Can you tell me if any initiatives have been taken in this area? Have budgets been mobilized for this purpose? That of preventive diplomacy, I guess. Have you received any requests? The European Foreign Affairs Council also examined the situation in Burundi. My group obviously supports the conclusions of this Council, in particular those which highlight the need to respect the Arusha agreements. However, I wonder about two aspects of these conclusions. Firstly, the European Council does not seem to take a clear and explicit position on the President's third term, as several Member States have done in recent weeks. Secondly, I am concerned by the conclusion that the European Union is ready to initiate procedures, including in the area of cooperation, to ensure that Burundi complies with its commitments. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Why has the European Council not acted more clearly on the question of the President's third term? On the sidelines of these formal conclusions, has Minister Reynders had discussions with his European counterparts on the attitude that the European Union will have to take if the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections are maintained under the current conditions? What will be the Belgian position in this respect? With regard to possible sanctions, what is clearly the graduation provided for by the European Union? Could we go as far as a decision to abolish European official development assistance and Member States directly assisting the population? Finally, if, despite this situation, the elections were organised, can you tell me what the attitude of Belgium will be in terms of diplomatic, humanitarian, cooperation and the possible organisation of observer missions? How do you coordinate this with your colleague from Development Cooperation and, more broadly, the European External Action Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium fully supports the dialogue proposed to the various parties by the UN Special Envoy, Abdoulaye Bathily. Like you, I obviously deplore the attitude of the National Council for the Defence of Democracy or "Forces de la Démocratie" (CNDD-FDD) which boycotted this dialogue. This shows his determination to organize the elections on the dates he had scheduled, despite all national and international pressure. The Minister of the Interior nevertheless presented himself yesterday for the second day of dialogue, but directly stated that, if the purpose of these meetings was to postpone the elections, no discussion was possible. The opposition announced that it would boycott both the 29 June parliamentary and local elections and the 15 July presidential election. We do not think it is possible for local and national elections to take place on Monday in an acceptable manner. This has become all the clearer after the opposition has confirmed its boycott. Belgium will therefore not be able to recognise the results of the elections. On the one hand, Belgium has already gone beyond mere threats, as we have suspended our support for the elections and our police project. Other cooperation projects, such as those concerning the reform of the judiciary, have been suspended at least until September 2015. On the other hand, Minister De Croo indicated in his communiqué of 21 May 2015 that our cooperation with Burundi would be seriously affected if President Nkurunziza were to be re-elected for a third mandate. Furthermore, as you know, the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, at Belgium's initiative, adopted conclusions on Monday, 22 June 2015, in which it threatens to impose sanctions on all individuals responsible for violence, serious violations of human rights, but also on those who prevent a political solution to the crisis. We are working with our European partners to establish lists of individuals who can be punished. Once their files have been drawn up, which could go very quickly for some of them, we will then start without waiting for the sanctioning procedure against the people in question. These conclusions also explicitly refer to Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, i.e. the dialogue procedure which may lead to the complete or partial suspension of the European Union's development aid. It is a procedure which is a little long to start and we still have to determine, together with our European partners, the exact moment at which we would launch this procedure. My view is that the current electoral process is doomed to failure and that we could therefore launch the Article 96 procedure at the end of this process, that is, just after the presidential elections of 15 July 2015. The aim of the Article 96 dialogue could then be to get the Burundian authorities to take steps to restore fundamental freedoms and democratic space in Burundi and thus to relaunch a new electoral process that meets the criteria established by the East African Community and the African Union, because we believe that the elections on 29 June 2015 and 15 July 2015 will not be free and democratic and risk endangering stability and civil peace in Burundi. I stress that, at a difficult time in its existence, Burundi needs a president and a parliament whose legitimacy is indisputable, which will not be the case on the evening of the elections on 29 June 2015 and 15 July 2015. I therefore once again encourage the Burundian authorities to listen to the advice of the international community.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to avoid a "rwandisation" of the situation in Burundi; indeed, the risk of turning this conflict into an ethnic conflict is great. It's often said that history is ironing the dishes. This should not be the case this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the reply from Minister Reynders. It is a good signal that the government will not recognise the outcome of the parliamentary elections of 29 June in the circumstances. That's a good start. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I would ask the government to reorient the bilateral resources, from state to state, so that development cooperation still benefits the population directly, while we are, as it were, circumventing the Burundian regime. Direct support can be provided through international organisations and NGOs. Finally, Belgium has an impact. We are the largest bilateral donor in the country. If anything happens in Burundi, the United States and the European Union will call Belgium. We have expertise and can put weight on the scale. I would therefore ask Minister Reynders to use that weight and not always wait for something to be decided at European level. The latter too is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u80	Minister, I welcome your reply, which clearly reflects the line our team has set itself in the government statement. We want to impose conditionality and look much more objectively and soberly at the countries with which we cooperate. That is a clear statement. There are no free elections in Burundi, as it is today. The electoral committee is composed solely of government confidants. Not only the vote, but also the count will be invalid. I am very pleased with the decision. Let us hope that, in any way, opposition and democracy can stand up later in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. Tension in Burundi is increasing day by day and will, of course, continue to increase by election deadlines. You can see that a few dignitaries are leaving the country. We have seen, as recently as yesterday, that the second Vice-President left the country to take refuge here in Belgium. Students are currently being cut off from the United States Embassy. This is therefore an increasingly critical situation. Belgium has a key role to play in this regard. Thank you for the clear message you brought here about the authenticity of the elections that would be held. The message in relation to the third mandate was important even though it was late because I believe that Belgium is still well listened to on this issue and that we must continue to put pressure on the European Union to take the same path. With regard to sanctions, of course, but I ask you to remain vigilant about the needs of the Burundian people. We must continue to look for the right way to help them directly. I also call for special attention to be paid to refugees who are currently in neighbouring countries and who leave the country. Here too, attention will have to be paid to their needs and expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u82	Minister, you announced this week that you want to make a significant contribution to a so-called flash force against Russia. You want to deploy 1 000 to 1 500 people from the Land Component, a number of helicopters, and possibly also F-16 dynamometers, in order to be able to strike within 48 hours when Russia becomes naughty, if I may put it that way. I have a number of reservations about this. First, the enemy is not in Moscow, the enemy is in Raqqah, the enemy is in the mountains near Kabul, the enemy is in the Sahel, but not in Moscow. Secondly, how do you intend to finance this story? When you have to use the Godetia for humanitarian reasons, you have to make significant savings in training. So I wonder how your impeccable budget will be able to bear this story.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u83	Thank you, Mr Penris, for your questions. I assume that they are questions that are motivated by a legitimate concern for our budget and for the way in which Defence can carry out all its tasks. I will try to give a concrete answer. First of all, where did this come from? I suspect that you will continue on what was on a front page yesterday, depicting a kind of helicopter of which we have none. The Readiness Action Plan, which is what it is about, was adopted at the NATO summit in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014. It was expanded with the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) in February 2015. In other words, there will be a shift in the role of different task forces, amounting to five thousand people in total, each with the 28 NATO Member States which have agreed to make their contribution. In concrete terms, this means that I will submit to the government whether we can participate in the VJTF next year, which will be led by Spain. Mr Penris, what the newspaper writes is one thing. The setup is something else. The Readiness Action Plan is about the new threats. Yesterday, at the NATO Summit, it was made clear that these new threats come from both the East and the South. There's not even a priority. Both are recognised as equally high risks. If you are afraid of that, I can assure you that, including our question, the October summit will be almost entirely in the light of the problems in the South and the specific solutions that can be given to them. There are threats both in the East and in the South, but they are completely different in nature. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, it's about regular training to get people ready. As long as this joint task force is not effectively called up, there will be no additional costs, as the costs are included in the normal costs for the training. We are indeed taking a risk. If we have to take a step further, from readiness to involve ourselves in operation, we will indeed have to take budgetary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u84	Mr President, Minister, let's hear it on all the benches. Minister, you are partly right. It's in Antwerp Sinksenfoor. My grandparents told me that one of the biggest attractions used to be the lute with the bear. That was a show where a man with a tamed bear fought, where the bear lay on the ground at the end of the show because that was taught him. Russia is sometimes compared to a bear, but it is not a tamed bear. There have been many words in the past, because I do not want to come into conflict with Patrick Dewael. I hope our boys and girls don't have to go through that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u85	Mr President, Minister, Belgocontrol was instructed yesterday to abolish the Leuven Straightaway route. Belgocontrol immediately writes in the press release that it will do everything in its power to reach the deadline of 31 March 2016. This decision is the result of the judgment of 7 May, after a number of municipalities had brought proceedings in summary proceedings against the Leuven Straightway flight route. As you know, the federal state was sentenced in absentia to repairing the flight routes prior to the introduction of Leuven Straight ahead. You had appointed a law firm which, however, did not show up for a hearing because of a misunderstanding between your cabinet and the law firm. That is a pity because this could have bought you time for an evaluation. Indeed, the government agreement states literally that the routes put into service in early 2014 will have to be evaluated and adjusted where necessary in the light of an acceptable solution. A good evaluation and a balanced solution in this extremely complex dossier will help everyone. I don't think anyone wants to be in your shoes on this file. In the meantime, the deadline to object to the verdict has almost expired. Next week, that deadline expires on July 1st. Madam Minister, can you explain whether the government will appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance in Brussels? Are you working on an evaluation of 07 Straight forward as stipulated in the coalition agreement, i.e. with sound impact studies and after consulting the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the verdicts of 7 and 11 May force me to return to the situation before 6 March 2014. Consequently, in carrying out the sentences, I instructed Belgocontrol to resume the Leuven West flight route. To adjust the flight route 07 Straight ahead Belgocontrol calculates 39 weeks. The target date of 31 March 2016 is therefore realistic. That period respects the steps Belgocontrol must take in the context of air traffic safety to implement the old flight route. In addition to this instruction, the federal government has also decided to oppose the pleas relied upon in the judgments. Secondly, the flight law is in preparation in accordance with the coalition agreement. In addition, I would like a legal definition of a procedural framework and the rules for the adoption of flight procedures and operating restrictions at Brussels Airport. This must be done in all transparency. The future structural measures will then be integrated into a legal, clear, undisputed and pre-recognized framework. This will improve legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u87	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is fully in line with the coalition agreement. I believe that there are two important principles in the coalition agreement. Firstly, the economic development of Brussels National, an important employment pool. Secondly, the tranquillity of the neighbors and the noise. The escape routes remain the tricky point. It's a good thing you're showing resistance. This will give a little more time to reach a balanced solution and avoid the payment of periodic penalty payments, which would be the result from 1 September. It takes 39 weeks to find a new escape route. It is a good thing that you are protesting so that everyone's rights can be safeguarded. It is also important to work on the law. It is not right that proceedings should be fought before the courts, but one should strive for objectivity, and that can only be done, as you yourself said, by means of a flight law which establishes that escape routes can only be changed by law, through the Council of Ministers. I hope that this will restore relative peace and that fewer people will be awake from the escape routes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u88	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, about three months ago I asked a question about the refugee tragedy in the Mediterranean. A European Action Plan was discussed. It originally concerned 20 000 and later 40 000 refugees, who would be spread across the 23 different Member States of Europe. I only fear that the story of the 23 Member States will become a story of 23 little niggers instead of 10 little niggers. I note that Britain, Ireland and Denmark will not participate. They have an opt-in opt-out. The Baltic States also do not want to participate. Slovakia, Poland and Croatia do not want to participate, just like Hungary, a country that has been protesting against walls for years, is now building a wall to keep those refugees out. What bothers me particularly is that those Member States want to become members of a club without contributions. I also mentioned this remark last time. It's kind of like a marriage. They have rights and obligations. They have responsibilities. They also have drawing rights, many of which are eager to use. However, when they have to contribute, they do not give at home. I will use a Belgian statement: unity makes power. Maybe you don't like hearing them, but I like that statement. After all, a sound solution can only be found if all the Member States jointly and in the interests of everyone draw up the same policy plan. That is why I would like to know the following. What is the real attitude of the Belgian Government in the story? After all, I know that there is some discussion about the criteria. I know that there is a great deal to discuss about criteria. However, the objective must be to draw up a certain policy for the many refugees knocking at the door.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u89	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I think you are quite right to raise these issues. I would like to inform you that Ireland may formally call in its opt-out system if it comes to this. The Irish Minister has made it clear that Ireland will do relocation and resettlement and will increase its number. So they don't all share the same opinion. I clarified our government's position this week in the committee meeting and last week in the plenary session in response to various questions. What you are saying is actually our position. I think solidarity and responsibility are necessary, one cannot do without the other. We want to show our solidarity and we want to contribute to this inter-European solidarity. In that story, however, everyone has to take their fair share. Our country has been doing much more than the European average for years, as you know. We are making these efforts. Our country has a tradition of showing its human face with great humanitarian efforts, and we will continue to do so. Mr Juncker has absolutely the ambition to land with a plan requiring a mandatory spread. Several Member States now complain that a voluntary distribution was agreed at the last European summit in April, and since the distribution is now becoming voluntary but de facto mandatory, these countries no longer agree. Our Prime Minister is attending these meetings today and tomorrow. That is why he is not present in the Chamber. Whatever the outcome will be, I don't know. I don't think the stars are good right now. I can only hope that every Member State will look at itself again in that window. So you are right to raise this issue. It is not possible for certain Member States, when it comes to solidarity, to always stand in the front row to get their share of, for example, agricultural funds and economic funds, because they need more economic development, whereas they do not give home when solidarity is to come from the other side. That is indeed very painful to see. So I can only hope that the Heads of State or Government will get out of there, and I think we hope that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u90	Mr Secretary of State, I can only observe that what you say is said by many people. However, the reality is that the EU is increasingly striving for a free market. It has just been mentioned in connection with the Greek crisis. We want a free market, we want free movement of services and goods, but only when it is convenient. I often refer to the issue of social dumping. If you can earn anything from it, you have the flag of freedom first. I note, however, that there are some right-wing conservative governments in the European Commission and the European Union that will have to look at the other side, if not many people will not accept Europe in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u91	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for being here today to make it clear that you consider this question to be incredibly important and that you will take this issue with great enthusiasm. Yesterday a ruling was made in the Netherlands which has a precedent value, as is said in the comments. There are already a number of climate issues in Norway and the US and the theme is on the rise with us and in many other countries. However, the ruling in the Netherlands has a precedent value because for the first time a judge has decided that a government should protect its people from the consequences of global warming, should be more ambitious and should follow its self-agreed ambitions in Cancun, in particular the reduction of CO2 emissions by a minimum of 25%. Urgenda's plea and the judge's decision were followed with great attention. In our country too, a climate case is pending with 9 000 plaintiffs. I know a lot of the plaintiffs. Their response to what happened yesterday in the Netherlands is remarkable. They welcomed the ruling, but hoped, above all, that it would not have to come to a decision in our country. We still have about a year and a half before that case comes to court. So another year and a half, in which the plaintiffs hope that these governments will start working. I do say governments. You're the federal minister responsible for the environment. In our country, tackling climate change has been at a huge stalemate for five years. You know that, because you said it yourself in interviews. The Kyoto Fund has been dismantled, but there is no alternative yet. The National Climate Commission has been stalling for five years and does not know what to do or how to distribute what needs to be done to meet our own committed European commitments. At international level, we have promised to invest funds in the Green Climate Fund, but we are left with behind. Have we already deposited before 2015 and if so, how much? Have we already paid in our overdue contributions for 2013 and 2014? After yesterday's wake-up call, what will you do in your own country to tackle this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u92	Mr President, yesterday I was informed by the Dutch administration of the ruling on the Urgenda case in the Netherlands, even though it is not for the Belgian Government to comment on a ruling by the Dutch Justice Department. It is an interesting statement at first sight that I will study with great attention, together with my advisers. That is why, as you know, I took the initiative to receive the representatives of Climate Change on 3 March last, together with the regional Environment Ministers. In any case, I will do everything from the federal government to reduce CO2 emissions as much as possible. I have taken various measures and will continue to do so. For example, there is my initiative to intensify demand-side management to optimise and reduce energy consumption. Today, two royal decrees were adopted at the Council of Ministers authorising two offshore wind farms to connect directly to the Elia network on the coast. This will increase the share of renewable energy in the overall energy package. I will also support all the initiatives of the Regions in the context of the inter-federal energy pact, which should also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u93	Colleagues, I would be ashamed to death instead of applauding! I asked a question about late payments for the Green Climate Fund, but I did not receive an answer. In an interview in MO* Magazine on the climate policy impasse, you said that there would be a quick response to what we were about to deposit in 2015. Nothing has yet been deposited, Madam Secretary, nothing! We made a terrible mistake at the last climate summit in Bonn. Do you know what the worst part is? While Flemish Minister of Environment, Nature and Agriculture, Mrs Schauvliege, is insulting people when they try to do something about climate change, while mayors sign covenants and companies implement a transition, while all innovation in economy is green innovation, these governments stand still. That's telling. It is you and your government who organise the delays in the climate internationally. Your citizens want it different. In the interview in MO* Magazine, you said: "I like lawsuits." Madam Secretary, that statement says everything. Instead of tackling the problem and finding solutions that the economy also needs, you are putting your head in the sand. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, today I would be ashamed to have such a minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u94	That concludes the debate on the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u95	Proposal for a law tabled by: Bill tabled by: Ahmed Laaouej, Luk Van Biesen, Sophie Wilmès, Roel Deseyn, Veerle Wouters, Dirk Van der Maelen, Georges Gilkinet, Benoît Dispa, Meyrem Almaci, Olivier Maingain
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u97	Mr President, since I have no doubt that my excellent colleagues will want to speak in the rostrum to defend this proposal, I shall refer to the written report. However, I insist that this be read, because it is very interesting in some of its paragraphs and in particular in the comments of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u98	Mr. Speaker, we are about to vote on a bill that has received broad agreement in this House, something that we should welcome. I would like to remind you very briefly of the history of this case. A similar bill had been introduced in the Senate. I had co-signed it at the time with Olga Zrihen and Marie Arena, to whom I want to pay tribute here. It was then re-tabled in the House, attracting the interest of a number of colleagues. On this basis, we have set up a working group with some colleagues, NGOs such as the Third World Debt Reduction Committee (CADTM) and the National Development Cooperation Centre (CNCD-11.11.11), as well as other speakers, including a number of university professors. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr Mougenot, who has provided us with valuable assistance. We have deepened the matter and it has been decided to table a new text co-signed by a number of colleagues from almost all the groups. I would like to thank all the co-signatories of this bill, all those who have contributed to improving its content, to strengthening its relevance. I am particularly grateful to Mr Luk Van Biesen, for he has brought to this matter the energy we know, the pugnacity which makes his mark and, above all, the ability he has to find here or there the legal technical solutions which make it possible to improve a text. Thank you! I also thank Mrs Sophie Wilmès, who has attended numerous working meetings to improve the quality of the text, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Veerle Wouters, who has participated on numerous occasions in the working group, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, who has been a supporter since the beginning, Mr Georges Gilkinet, who has not missed any meetings, in particular with NGOs, civil society, and Mr Benoît Dispa, who was also represented in our work. Thank you all for understanding that we were talking about a topic that can win everyone's support. What are we talking about? Financial actors, a minority, who speculate on the distress of a number of countries, not necessarily in the process of development, but who are experiencing difficulties and who have their public debt redeemed at a vile price by so-called vulture funds, which will eventually resell these securities in a second stage with an added value, or even demand the execution by equivalent or forced debt for the initial amount of the debt and not for the amount to which they have redeemed it. You'll understand that's the way they get rich. They do legal shopping. They go to all jurisdictions in all countries where there may be an interest in seizing them in order to carry out the enforced execution of the debt or even seizing assets belonging to those indebted States. Should I recall here the recent episode of a desire to seize the financial assets of the Embassy of Argentina in Belgium? It is clear that this bill deals with situations which will be purely Belgian. It also provides a message that our jurisdictions will not cooperate in this type of process. Of course, we do not have universal powers – that is clearly stipulated in the law – but that goes without saying in application of the general principles that determine the legal territoriality of States. However, I believe that this proposal is moving in the right direction. We have put in place a mechanism that will give the judge an important role, the judge who, independently, will decide whether or not, on the basis of legal criteria, we are dealing with an illegitimate advantage. So this is a major step forward. We hope, of course, to be able to make emulations in Europe and internationally. I repeat, this is a bill which, for Belgium, is of great relevance. Once again, I would like to commend the work of civil society and NGOs. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u99	Mr President, today we are approving a proposal that restricts the activities of vulture funds. We are sending out a very important ethical signal. All groups also support the proposal. I would also like to thank both Mr Laaouej and Mr Van Biesen, because they have incorporated many of our comments into the original proposal, so the N-VA Group has also contributed to the legislative proposal. I would now like to comment on the proposal. Allow me to highlight a number of issues and issues in the proposal. Article 2 is very important. The point is that a creditor seeks an unlawful advantage. This therefore means that he or she must have the intention or intention to obtain an unlawful or unlawful advantage. There must therefore be a particularly intense element. Of course, it is up to the judge to determine whether the intention is present or not. If the intention is not present, then the law does not apply. Normal transactions are therefore not covered by the law. In the absence of an optional element, therefore, a transaction does not fall within the scope of the law. I would like to make that very clear, particularly in view of the unrest among a number of people about the present proposal. Colleagues from the other groups have also underlined what the new law is and what is not. It does indeed aim to fund vulture. We want to limit them. It is not for us to do normal transactions, nor do we want to hinder or hinder secondary markets. That is absolutely not the intention. The objective element therefore means that in practice the law will not apply to institutions subject to the statutory and prudential supervision of the National Bank and the FSMA. Such institutions are neither vulture funds nor carry out such activities or operations. They do not fall within the scope of the law, as they do not intend to pursue that unlawful advantage. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is now an unauthorized advantage. Well, there must be a clear imbalance between the redemption value and the nominal value, i.e. the debts of which the payment is required. That criterion is absolutely not new and is deeply embedded in our legal system. I would like to refer in this respect to the doctrine of abuse of law, as defined since the important judgment in cassation of 10 September 1971 with the important Opinion of Attorney General Ganshof van der Meersch. There is abuse of law when a right is exercised in a manner which seems to exceed the limits of the normal exercise of that right by a prudent and thoughtful person. The judge will still have to assess whether or not that is the case. Here too, the proportionality criterion applies. In the case of a vulture fund, it is an excessive or disproportionate exercise of a right. Then what will be the penalty? In the event of an abuse of law, the courts must reduce that excessive exercise of the right, i.e. to normal practice. That's what's happening here in our bill. The rights are limited to the price paid to buy off the loan or debt. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. We support this bill. It's nice to wear it room-wide. I think we are setting an example here. Some noted the need to address the issue at international level. Let's start small. We are starting here and we hope that the proposal will be extended internationally. I hope we have moved a little rock into the river with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin my presentation by thanking all those who participated in the drafting of this bill. I am not going to name them, Mr. Laaouej having already done so. Nor will I go back to the legal development of the bill or the conditions for the judge to qualify a vulture fund. I think these are clearly expressed in the proposal. They have just been sufficiently developed by my colleagues, Mr Laaouej and Mrs Wouters. However, it seems important to me to clarify the balance we have sought, the establishment of criteria sufficiently broad to avoid an easy circumvention of the law by vulture funds, while relying on the notion of abuse of property, a concept known and applied by Belgian judges. I would also like to express in my personal capacity, but also on behalf of the MR, my extreme satisfaction that all democratic groups have been able to meet around a common objective. The fight against the action of the vulture funds, of certain funds which speculate on sovereign debt, taking advantage of the weakness of the economy of some States, is clearly a concern of this whole assembly and it should be stressed that This strong and unequivocal position in the face of the immoral and illegitimate nature of the action of these funds marks the will of the MR, this government, but above all of this entire assembly to fight for a fair and ethical finance at the service of all. With this law, the execution of seizures for the benefit of vulture funds will no longer be possible in Belgium. We hope that this initiative will serve as a model for other countries. It is only by combining our forces at the international level, as we do in the House, that we can effectively combat these unacceptable practices. Our will is to prevent these funds from nesting all over the world, and to begin with, in Belgium. It is true that the action of the vulture funds is not concentrated in our territory, but it is nevertheless a reality. I would remind you of the provisional seizure by the NML investment fund, recalled by Mr Laaouej, of the accounts of the Argentine embassy on the day after the presentation to the press of our bill. While it is true that the amounts involved are in this case minimal in relation to the problem of vulture funds considered at the global level, this attempt to intimidate demonstrates, if necessary, the inextinguishable will of these funds to achieve their ends. As I said, the proposal is intended to complement the Belgian scheme. The Act of 6 April 2008 already prevents the seizure or transfer of public funds for international cooperation. We also know, since this was the subject of a question in plenary, that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice are currently working on the ratification of the United Nations Convention on jurisdictional immunities of States and their property. This ratification will constitute a further obstacle to the action of vulture funds. We can also mention the obligation, since 2013, to include in any new sovereign debt issue of a euro area State a collective action clause. It imposes on all creditors the result of a sovereign debt restructuring if a defined majority has emerged in this direction. Vulturous funds, which often have the peculiarity of refusing any restructuring, and even taking advantage of it to demand more, are thus greatly hampered in their action. It is therefore important for non-euroarea issuing States to follow the same path, taking this reserve in order to protect themselves as much as possible from the action of these funds in the event of inevitable restructuring. Despite these various advances, given the complexity of the arrangements and the international disparities, and given the unwavering will of some funds, their action – although still ongoing – is not stopped. Only a European and/or international initiative can be truly effective. That is why we call it our vows. Of course, this request must not prevent national parliaments, and ours in this case, from legislating. Indeed, if this bill does not solve the whole problem, beyond the strong message it delivers, it hinders the possible action of the funds in our territory. Since this initiative is unique, it will be up to the other countries to grasp the Belgian example and adapt its terms according to their own imperative, but also to the lessons learned from the implementation of this law. It was important that the secondary sovereign debt market should not be disrupted, in order to ensure that borrowing States had a genuine capacity to borrow. Conventional creditors must be able to continue to be remunerated on the basis of their risk-taking. This capacity is vital for borrowing states. Indeed, without creditors, no debt financing. Secondly, it is clear that this bill does not apply to conventional funds operating in the secondary market, but to those that pursue an illegitimate advantage, which should, if necessary, be assessed by the judge. Nor is it a question of asking banks and financial intermediaries to replace judges. No new obligations are imposed on the latter. Systematic and proactive supervision by banks and intermediaries is not possible for both operational and legal reasons. This was clearly confirmed in our parliamentary work. Finally, I would also like to refer to an article in the Vif l'Express of today on a dispute brought before the Brussels Commercial Court. This dispute is between creditors, banks and operators in the settlement of the Argentine debt. The various elements of this dossier still demonstrate the extreme complexity of the devices present. The delivery of this judgment will undoubtedly influence the strategies put in place by both vulture funds and those put in place to combat them. In conclusion, supported by all democratic political parties, this proposal demonstrates the strong will of the signatories to act in a clear and meaningful way against the immoral action of certain speculators, who take advantage of the economic fragility of the debtor countries to enrich themselves at the expense of the local populations. I therefore confirm that the whole of my group will vote with conviction on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is excessive to say that Belgium is a pioneer here. We know how capital markets are structured. If we want to change something that has a very broad scope, we must act internationally. However, one has to start somewhere. I believe that this proposal has a real impact and can stimulate the European debate. If one has seen the resistance and has read the letters and e-mails of persons and institutions that were not set up with the proposal, then I think this proposal is an expression of courageous politics. I would even say more, who would have thought that with this political constellation, with this majority, we could come forward with a full proposal in the short term? Fortunately, this has happened with the support of the opposition. I am therefore very grateful to the main proposers for having had the good idea and for giving all the groups the opportunity to think and write along in order to work out this proposal. The Members who have just spoken have already taken note of the fact that this is in line with essential legal principles of contract balance that have already been included in our Civil Code, but which we say we need to extend the common sense of fairness and non-disproportionate contracts to the financial markets. The unauthorized advantage is the most important criterion. It is also important that in activities identified as a vulture fund, it is not the financial institution as such that is being addressed. This concerns a number of untolerated practices. Colleagues, if you still need to be convinced, the mechanism of vulture funds has lost money from Belgian Development Cooperation, seized by aggressive legal shoppers who, when it comes to re-negotiating contracts or debt restructuring, often choose a court, institution or country where they can enforce their position. In the discussion we also discussed forum shopping. Wouldn't Belgium be attractive? I hope that many contracts and debt restructuring programmes will be drawn up in accordance with Belgian law and that the Belgian clause can be activated in order to eliminate certain imbalances. The discretion of the judge is always central. The court also investigates the substance of the case, particularly in the case of enforcement of foreign judgments and judgments. It is also important to repeat this, because there was some fear of cold water. People were wondering where the judicial review was throughout the story. I believe it is adequately covered. The judge also has sufficient discretionary power to make a fair judgment. The law is sufficiently broad to allow it. The law has not been worked out at a technical level at which many escape routes could be organized. This is also where a very healthy balance has been achieved. The financial institutions that may have had some cold feet are not obliged to conduct proactive investigations into vulture activities. There is therefore no disproportionate burden on them either. However, they are obliged, by law and by the supervisor, to apply the Belgian laws when faced with a foreign judgment or judgment. It is the intention to move towards more ethical action and to be careful about lending money. It is not, of course, a free pass, as some might say, for debt-taking. The right of ownership is not affected at all. It is not possible to recover something that has never been done. That is the philosophy of the proposal. The abuse of justice is being dealt with. In other financial files we recently heard the slogan "only" in Belgium for promotion. In this case, the only one in Belgium is entitled to receive a lot of follow-up. That would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once it is not customary, our Parliament is going to vote, just now, for innovative, bold, useful legislation to take part in the fight against mad and destructive finance, which I welcome. If we had been in December, I would have said that this was the result of the spirit of Christmas, but, as we will soon be in July, I think this may be the result of the spirit of the future national holiday. I associate myself with the thanks that have been given to the co-signatories of this text and to those who have initiated it, namely the associative actors. I will return to that point. I hope, in any case, that this text will not be the exception that confirms the rule of this legislature, but rather that it reflects a turning point, the beginning of a will to act and legislate differently, with a greater sense of ethics and a concern for greater solidarity with the most fragile countries which have large debts, whatever the reasons, and which are attacked by certain actors in international finance. The vulture funds on which we are going to legislate are made by financial institutions that buy the debt securities of poor countries at very low prices. And as soon as the debtor country gets better because it has been helped internationally, because it has managed to implement internal reforms, as soon as it becomes a little more solvent, the vulture funds attack it in court to try to recover the entire loan with late penalties sometimes much higher than the initial investment, trying to divert internal or external resources from the endogenous development of the countries concerned. This obviously unacceptable practice requires an international response. Today, however, Belgium, the first one, has decided to react. These vultures against which we are going to legislate are an additional avatar of mad and greedy finance that must be fought with all our strength. They have already done as victims Argentina, Nicaragua, Peru, Zambia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to name but a few examples. This problem is illustrative of an issue that we have dealt with several times in Parliament since I have been there since 2007, whether it is the banking and financial crisis, tax evasion and the fight against financial crime or tax havens. They are only an additional avatar of a phenomenon that can be approached in different ways and which, like Stiglitz, can be described as greed, that of those who want more and more. This greed is the power that finance has taken vis-à-vis states and that can also be illustrated by these systemic banks, which one dares very little to force to no longer play dangerous games. This is the financialization of the economy. These are tax havens, the development of the most toxic products, the most speculative in financial terms, including when they have as their source of financing pension funds. It is also these well-appointed vulture funds that take advantage of the weakness of some states to better deprive them of the means necessary to simply organize the essential (to ensure a decent life for all their fellow citizens, to organize quality education, to ensure security, to contribute to sustainable economic development, to make health care accessible to all, to create prosperity to be shared). As an authority, as representatives of the citizens, we had to react to this form of financial control over our society. It is a fundamental emergency that must shake up all the bad pretexts mentioned in order not to act, such as the expectation of an international consensus, the fear of the economic consequences of radical choices, confidence in self-regulation or in the personal ethics of financial managers and the weakness of the legal system. These are arguments that have been raised. We have the right to refer to them, but I am pleased that they have not been retained for failure to move forward. It is also important that our Parliament and all parliaments in general are open to civil society and feed on its reflections. It is true that it is not always easy to organize. Yet it is a form of oxygen of democratic life. Civil society action is complementary to ours. Civil society often has a role to play as a scout. She's making diagnoses. She's calling. She's joking. It also proposes solutions, which include the Committee for the Cancellation of Third World Debt and the CNCD-11.11.11, which are at the origin of this legislation on vulture funds. Welcomed to the Senate a few months ago, they invited us to a seminar on the issue of vulture funds, during which I was able to meet foreign actors concerned that a country like ours would legislate and prevent financial actors from harming them. Our role is therefore to listen carefully to the diagnosis made, to establish the reality of it, to work on solutions which are often technical and which require that they be able to create political consensus. That's what we did here with Professor Mougenot of the University of Namur. The PS group in the Senate has developed a credible and robust legal framework; I will return to that. We have submitted it at meetings, on the one hand, to other colleagues and, on the other hand, to professors from other universities. Amendments have been made to the original text to arrive today in the form of a bill supported by many signatures and which, I am sure, will be confirmed by a largely majority vote, if not unanimously, I hope, just now. The scheme in this case, which has been said by other colleagues, aims, on the one hand, to define what a vulture fund is. It's not an easy exercise. These vultures may have different characteristics. There is a power of interpretation to be given to the judge, but at the same time it is necessary to determine a body, a spine sufficiently explicit so that it can attach itself to it and then give the judge the power to estimate that the repayment claimed by the said vulture fund is unpaid and that the sums to be repaid correspond to the initial redemption price of the debt concerned, if necessary plus normal interest but that it is not a question of making an immoral and very high profit on these debts. It is an original mechanism, both precise and flexible, which aims to create a brake, a first obstacle, a stone in the shoe of these vulture funds, and to prevent them in practice from seizing Belgian courts in order to try to take advantage of the weakness of some States. I have heard the argument that it would be of no use to do so at Belgian level, that this legislation will be useless if it is only national. These are signals that have been sent to us by certain actors concerned about our willingness to move forward. I will develop a different point of view, as some colleagues have also done. I think that this reaction from the financial sector is a sign that we have just typed, that we are actually precursors in an area that needs it. Our initiative can be small. That's our hope. It is a matter of legislating not from the top, but from the bottom, from the nations, hoping that other States will copy our legislation and gradually become the international norm, so that we can fight these vultures at the level of all States. The road will not stop with the passing of this law. We'll have to evaluate it, probably adjust it. It will have to be implemented in the field by the judges. We will pay particular attention to this. Ongoing cases must attract our full attention, the attention of financial regulators, judges. I hope that they will take advantage of this text for useful legislation. The road is certainly still long, but here we are taking a step in the right direction. This step will have to be followed by other steps. This legislation is probably not enough for this Parliament to be that of the fight against immoral finance, but it is an act that goes in this direction. I hope that, beyond being a forerunner, it will be the announcement of other steps in that direction, with the aim of putting finance at the service of the economy and our citizens, of development and prosperity for all. That is really our hope. I will conclude by thanking all colleagues who will contribute to the vote on this law and its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we sit on the benches of the opposition, it is a rare pleasure to see a text that has been co-signed. I do not want to squander my pleasure, which is due to a certain form of collective intelligence that has animated us all. I believe that merit is also the responsibility of some important actors in civil society. We must pay tribute to them. NGOs have been working to raise awareness. It is important that here, in this House, we do not remain deaf to persuasive work carried out outside. In particular, we owe this collective intelligence to university professors who have been asked and who have brought their expertise to improve the original text as much as possible. We also owe it to the ability to transcend political divisions, including the divide between the majority and the opposition. In particular, I would like to welcome the work of our colleagues, Messrs. Laaouej and Van Biesen, who have ensured throughout the process that consensus is not called into question through external manoeuvre. Thank you and congratulations to both of you in particular. No one believes that this mechanism will provide a universal solution to the problems of bankrupt or potentially bankrupt States. It is obvious that the mechanism will have to be relayed to other levels of power, and in particular to the European level, where a similar initiative would obviously be welcome. In any event, it is an interesting signal that is given at the start of the Belgian Parliament. We can hope for a workout effect. We will no doubt be keen to relay it to the actors of the European Parliament in particular. I would like to point out that what I particularly welcome is that we have been able to demonstrate a certain spirit of resistance towards lobbies that have not failed to manifest themselves. I am not going to classify the National Bank as a lobby, but Mr. Piedboeuf drew our attention to the National Bank's unenthusiastic view of the scheme. I note that the Minister of Finance did not fail to free himself somewhat, and that is very good. Beyond the National Bank, we know that the members of the Commission in particular have been asked by various groups. I am very pleased that we have been able to remain independent of these manoeuvres and I hope that this will be the case in other initiatives in other sectors. It is likely that these manoeuvres will not cease with the vote on the text. The vulture funds will spare no effort to try to find a flaw and eventually weaken the scheme. That is why, in my personal capacity, I wanted us to be able to obtain the opinion of the Council of State. We recalled this yesterday in the debate on adjustment, whenever this body or the Court of Auditors gives an opinion, it is an enrichment for parliamentary work. This applies both to government projects and to proposals for parliamentary initiative. Either, it's not. From the beginning, I say that this will not prevent the support that the cdH group will give to the text. Finally, on a positive note, I would like to express the hope that there will not be a pious wish, that all forms of financial crime will be the subject of consensus in our Assembly, in order to take the measures that will enable them to be combated. This proposal represents a step in the right direction. That attitude should be welcomed. We hope that it will be renewed through further fighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall go beyond the descriptions, definitions and examples, since they have already been extensively mentioned. On behalf of my party, I would simply like to say that this bill will make Belgium a pioneer in this area. Indeed, the text sets out several objective criteria that will help judges identify these vulture funds. The aim is to guide the judiciary in its reasoning and to avoid decisions that are too subjective or unpredictable. To this end, the judge may rely on these assessment criteria. It should be stressed that the main criterion remains the manifest disproportion between the redemption value and the face or face value of the receivable. Therefore, illegitimate profits are included. It will never be recalled enough that the judge retains all his discretion. In this respect, the Belgian initiative must be welcomed: the separation of powers is maintained. With this proposal, we hope that Belgium will be able to push the international community to reflect on a major response to vulture funds. Indeed, national laws have only a limited impact and are easily circumvented by the funds, since it is enough to appeal to the justice of other countries. One way forward at the international level could be to protect the vital expenses of the indebted countries, i.e. to protect certain sectors of the budget of the indebted countries, such as education, health or social benefits, by preventing them from being reduced as a result of debt repayment. I am pleased that a consensus has been reached in order to enable Belgium to fight effectively against those hedge funds that seek illegitimate profit in the future. On behalf of my party, I also welcome all the parliamentary work that has been done in committee and especially in the House. Van Biesen and Laaouej who have invested a great deal of energy in the drafting of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u105	Mr President, briefly, I welcome the success of this initiative to which I am not a signatory because, under Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of signatures is limited to ten. Since ten parties had already signed this text, unfortunately I have not been able to join it, even though I fully support it. The problem of vulture funds is important, but colleagues have sufficiently developed the arguments. One example is the case of Argentina, which is exposed to more than $7 billion in debt from vulture funds, of which $5 billion is due to a single trial this month in the United States. The amounts in question, in the hands of a judge, are enormous! Like my colleagues, I would like to thank Mr. Laaouej, Mr. Van Biesen and the others who participated in the drafting of this text, but also, upstream, the CADTM and the CNCD that launched these initiatives. I also advise all my colleagues to read the CADTM report on Greek debt, which is very interesting. In conclusion, I have nevertheless noted with my colleague Van Biesen a statement which I highly appreciated and it is not every day that I appreciate his statements. But when he says that Belgium must not wait for other countries to take such initiatives, I welcome his comments. Personally, I believe that our country must be at the forefront of taking action against unscrupulous profit hunters. Perhaps after this initiative on vulture funds can we take initiatives to combat European tax competition from which multinationals benefit, to arrive at the split of banks of speculation and deposit, and to combat the great tax fraud, or even that existing among diamond dealers? Pending this moment, which may one day come, I would like to reiterate my great satisfaction at seeing a quasi-unanimous vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u106	Mr President, I did not intend to speak from the Chair. I was gonna do that in my seat because I'm gonna keep it short. I therefore announce that I will be brief. Today, Parliament can really be proud of what it will approve. The initiators should also be proud. I would like to express some enthusiasm here. After all, today, with the adoption of this bill, a small country can be large at international level. I share the feeling that we can be equal with an ambitious climate project and with the approach of the financial sector. I am sincerely satisfied today that we, as a small country, can be large on an international scale. I'll tell you why. Look at the presence of the Argentine ambassador at the press conference following this bill. Look at what Argentina's going through. Ten years ago, vulture funds on the international capital markets bought debt securities from Argentina for an amount of EUR 49 million. These papers, however, had an outstanding value and this is, of course, the financial problem in which Argentina is involved of EUR 832 million. Those vulture funds have managed in the United States to claim the full amount of EUR 832 million plus EUR 600 million interest for a country that is on the brink of financial collapse. They demanded $1.3 billion for documents they had purchased for a sum of €49 million. It does not become clearer: it is 26 times the value they have paid on the capital markets and on the markets outside. Such things bring a country and its people to the abyss. Such a situation drains the economy, is detrimental to people, economy and land. The initiative we are taking may also be noted that the head of the Finance Committee was immediately counterwinded by a letter from Timothy Adams, CEO of The Institute of International Finance. Unseen was also an amendment by the major banks via Febelfin. There was also opposition and lobbying, including through opinions by Shapiro and Derk Jan Eppink. So there was a direct international headwind. I am very pleased today that we have maintained this cooperation across the parties and on the initiative of Mr Laaouej and Mr Van Biesen, who is not praiseworthy, because we have had many discussions here, despite the pressure that makes it clear that the proposal hurts and has a reason for existence, not only because of what we have experienced with our own money for development cooperation, which was particularly painful, but also because it is still happening in many countries. I would like to give this example because this is not a sterile debate with which we fill the time in the hope that we will be able to get home in time. No, this is a debate in which we are pioneers. So we can do that! I hope that this atmosphere in this House can still be experienced often when it comes to speculative action on the international markets. I also hope, and let me be optimistic today, that Mrs Marghem will make a contribution to climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u107	Mr President, Madam Minister, everyone would be blushing when Mr President-in-Office of the Council says such fine things. I can effectively agree that we can work together in this House. It is sometimes said that the government and the majority parties must rule, that they must assume their responsibilities, that they must take up a number of positions and govern the country, and that the opposition has the task of fulfilling its opposition role. Of course, in this dialectic one can work for five years. We have worked together with a number of fellow Members and, I must tell you the truth, we have continued the work already carried out in other committees. The great work was done in the Senate, where a number of resolutions on this matter were adopted. That has given us the opportunity to write down a good bill. It was initially tabled by Mr Laaouej and the PS. We had it simmered together, we thought about it, and we started talking to people from practice. However, we have also received the spontaneous cooperation of no less than seven universities in this country, and this has not yet been mentioned here. The professors exchanged views by e-mail on how best to draw up the definition of vulture fund and how best to achieve the best result, so that we could draw up an internationally legally strong text. That is why I am particularly proud, together with the fellow Members who tabled the bill, together with all the political groups, that we have drawn up the proposal on the basis of that data and on the basis of input from several fellow Members, and that we have also partly taken into account the comments made by the National Bank of Belgium. In doing so, it is not intended that every financial transaction in Belgium should from now on be examined by a judge to see if it is not a vulture fund movement. Clearly, that was never the intention. Today, as a small country, we are supposed to send a signal to all the other countries. This is when Parliament takes up its responsibility for fundamentally tackling usury capitalism and speculation on debt. This is also when each of us is given the task of trying to get every other country to adopt a similar text within its political groups. It is time for each of us to take responsibility in its groups, so that vulture funds are banned not only in Belgium but throughout the world. Then we can put an end to usury capitalism and show our responsibility as a small country. Indeed, as a small country we can be big. Mrs Temmerman, none of your group will speak, but I would like to point out that Mr Van der Maelen has done a wonderful job on this dossier. He'd be dishonored not to mention him. So it's a shame he can't be here today. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go with this clear mission to our fellow Members of the European Parliament. We have held numerous exchanges of letters with several countries that are fundamentally interested in this legislation. Let's start today. Let us give a little more hope today to those countries which are incredibly difficult to cope with their debt restructuring. So let us not end up with a non-binding vote today, but let us accept our responsibility 100%. Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1057/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1057/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Kitir, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak quickly on this text which, overall, is quite technical, but which contains very important provisions for certain sectors. I'll raise three of them. First, article 13 of the draft provides for an exemption from the solidarity contribution for the employer who makes available a utility vehicle to his employee. In this way, we are harmonizing the tax and social treatment of commercial vehicles and responding to a demand from the sector, which I welcome. This uncertainty was a source of negative concern in many areas, including construction. Second, articles 20 to 22 of this draft improve the status of artists. Under the previous legislature, we have carried out a necessary reform in this area in order to increase legal certainty vis-à-vis all the actors in the art sector and, first and foremost, the artists themselves, and to respond to abuses on the ground. It was common to see unfair competition applied by some false artists against independents or commercial companies. These measures continue with the adjustments already undertaken during the previous legislature. Here, we are taking measures to restore the social status of artists to enable the Artists Commission to sit effectively and operate more quickly. As long as this Commission does not work, professional artists' visas, declarations of independent activity and artist's cards cannot be issued. In addition, we provide a definition of the concept of performance and artistic work to determine the criteria by which the Artists Commission will determine what is to be considered artistic performances and works. In doing so, we limit the drifts caused by the lack of definition and take as the basis the definition used by the ONEM in the Royal Decree on Unemployment. These provisions thus respond to the philosophy underlying the reform of the status of artists that has taken place for several years. Thirdly, I welcome the administrative simplification of eco-cheques. Like electronic meal titles, workers will now be able to access electronic eco-cheques. This is really an administrative simplification in favour of citizens and businesses, without neglecting the fact that a savings of 41 million are generated in this way. However, we want to go further in this area and see how the system can be improved in the years to come. It is necessary to combat the numerous costs incurred by this method of payment, both of the costs against the beneficiaries, in particular via lost or outdated cheques, and of the user companies, and often solely for the benefit of the issuing companies. That, Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to make on behalf of my group on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u113	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I said in committee on the subject of artists when the amendment was tabled. As a reminder, the objective of setting up the Artists Commission, composed not only of the administration but also of representatives of the sector, was to leave an overly restrictive framework imposed by the National Employment Office (ONEM). In addition, the purpose of the Commission was to define a number of criteria for determining the artistic or non-artistic character of a performance, in order to get out of this too restrictive framework, as I said at the moment. We insisted on the presence of artists around the table. We believe that with this pure and simple reference to the definition of the ONEM the Commission will have nothing to say and that it will just have to grant its visa in this respect. The definition will therefore again be restrictive. I wanted to repeat our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u114	Mr President, I wanted to join in expressing concerns about these artist-related provisions and the tools that have been put in place. If we had to change the arrangements, it was not only because there were abuses, but also because there were various and too restrictive interpretations on the part of ONEM and the exclusions of artists of right from social security provisions that we wanted to guarantee them in the 2003 law. I draw your attention to some elements which, in the intended device, may be problematic. There is a commission in which artists will be fortunately represented, who will have to grant visas and appreciate the artistic quality of the performances, of the works. That is what we wanted to avoid in the first law. On the one hand, how can we guarantee that the qualification of an artistic performance or work is based on an artistic approach rather than on judgment or appreciation? On the other hand, a performance, a work does not exist alone in the evolution, functioning or production of an artist. More and more artists are multidisciplinary. Some works are accompanied by installation and technical tasks. It is therefore the appreciation of a general functioning of a person who produces, at certain times, works or artistic performances but who are on a much more global path. Therefore, it will be necessary for reflection, which will surround this assessment of the qualification of artist and artistic productions, to be generalised to all that these artists are doing and not to constitute a tool that will be used to exclude some of the provisions reserved for them. Finally, it will be necessary to agree to go back to the table in order to reflect in its entirety on the assessment of the amended provisions and the old provisions preserved. How does this meet the needs and reality of artists? Does this sometimes require them to go through processes and services according to the number of hours and type of contract (to the job or to the hours worked)? All these uncertainties remain vis-à-vis these artists. It will therefore take time to think about it again and perhaps reinvent something that takes account of these particular career paths. Indeed, some sometimes work six months to produce a one-day production, without any follow-up. Then there will be successive short performances as well as a creative time that will not be accompanied specifically by a production. All this has to be taken into account because our cultural wealth will come from there. There is also a need to take better account of the artist as well as the technician, who is needed in support of the artistic work. The latter's performance may sometimes be considered artistic because he has worked with an artist and sometimes, not. This should therefore be considered again. The mechanism we devised in 2002 and 2003 to respond to situations of concern was not perfect, although it had helped to resolve some of the difficulties. It had to be improved anyway. The ONEM's interpretations have led to disasters for several artists. You are bringing solutions, and the National Labour Council has also expressed its views on certain developments. I believe that we must dare to get out of the box and reinvent solutions with artists and the cultural community in order to be able to meet their needs. It is also a question of ensuring our cultural diversity that we hold so much to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u115	Mr President, I shall be brief. As I said at the committee meeting, the installation of the Artists Committee is actually the start of everything. This committee includes representatives of employees and employers, the arts sector, the RSZ, the RSVZ and the RVA. There is also the possibility of adding representatives of the regions to the list. This committee will have to clarify who can claim the status of artist and the criteria to be met. The Committee on Artists should decide on this. The conditions for obtaining an artist's social status are already closely in line with the conditions of the unemployment benefit system. That is so arranged, firstly, to avoid abuse, and secondly, to avoid creating a fall in unemployment. So there will be clarity. The Chamber now lays the legal basis for installing the Artists' Committee. Let us give that committee time to do its job. Then we will be able to evaluate that work and see what happens to the artists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1135/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1135/4) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law laying down various provisions on social affairs." The title has been changed by the committee to "draft law on various provisions in social matters". The draft law contains 58 articles. The bill has 58 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-25-54-plenair-ip057x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, because a number of Members have informed me that they have difficulties in getting to this point and because, because of my fault, the Minister of Energy has asked if she could have access to it and I have answered yes to that, I have therefore miscalculated in terms of time................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 June 2015 at 7 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, June 25, 2015 at 19.00 a.m.
