ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u2	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Members of the Conference, the majority and the opposition, for examining this issue before the debate on Objectives 1 and 2. I think it's a logical decision to give them a place at the beginning of our meeting. The Minister could have avoided them perfectly by answering the questions yesterday in the Committee on Business, chaired by Mr Delizée. What question is it about? It concerns the question that has been on the table for a few days now, in particular the question about the Tihange Convention 1. Once again, the Energy Minister is having a hard time telling the truth. Once again, Mrs Marghem takes a walk with the legislation and with agreements. About ten days ago, the transparency watchdog asked her to make public the convention on Tihange 1, the agreements made by the previous government with EDF and GDF. It has not yet acted on this. I would like to quote a number of quotes from the opinion. The first quote is: 'The public interest of this convention cannot be denied, certainly not in the light of parliamentary questions and debates in Parliament on the extension of nuclear power stations'. That is the first quote, not a note from our study service, but from the official transparency watchdog, addressed to the minister. I give a second quote: 'The committee can only regret the Minister's choice not to give her access to the documents requested'. I continue to read: 'This prevents the committee from working properly and discredits the Belgian system at European and international level'. That is the work of the current Energy Minister. Finally, there is the conclusion that since no grounds for exception can be relied upon, the administrative documents requested should in principle be made public. Madam Secretary, you must follow that advice, this decision. You have to respect laws. You must follow what we have agreed in our democracy and which we have approved here in the arena of democracy. You're not above the law. If you are asked to make that convention public, you should do so. Madam Minister, you are being asked for more than just the convention. The opinion also asks for the agenda items and the communication of the past as well as the communication on Objective 1 and Objective 2. Madam Minister, the opinion was not from yesterday, but from 8 June 2015. In the meantime, therefore, you have had more than ten days to accept and follow the advice. You're lingering, though. Yesterday you did not want to give information on the matter in committee. It was therefore logical for the Conference of Presidents to decide to place the issue here and now in plenary. It's your choice and not ours. You can take the case off the table. Please do that. Colleagues, I would remind you that it is not an issue of Ecolo-Green versus the Minister. It's a matter of all of us. Mr Van Rompuy, it is indeed a matter of all of us. It is a matter of Parliament. After all, it is the world on its head that a minister in Parliament states that it will only be transparent and comply with the legislation when it receives the consent of the companies concerned, the two French energy giants. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to hear other Members in the debate. We cannot respect such a statement. We cannot accept that a minister should take a walk in this way with our work and with our Parliament. Madam Secretary, I am simply asking you for something very simple. Before we start the marathon debate on Objectives 1 and 2, do what is necessary with regard to Tihange 1. Respect the law. You cannot simply say that you are waiting for the advice of the operators concerned. You've had the time. In fact, since February, the convention has been requested from your cabinet. You've had the time. The only answer, ladies and gentlemen, which Minister Marghem can give here and now, is that she finally opts for transparency and puts the convention on the table. Madam Secretary, if you do not do so, we are clearly carrying out our ultimatum. Then we'll announce them ourselves. If you do not do your job, Madam Secretary, we will announce the convention ourselves. Once again, you have a chance to prove that you have some feeling with democracy and yet want to work a little bit transparent. Please take that opportunity with both hands. That must be the intention, especially in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u3	Mr President, Minister Marghem discredits Belgium in the eyes of Europe. This is one of the findings of the Commission on Access to Environmental Administrative Documents. You have made it clear, Mr President, that this is not the debate "for or against nuclear power" or "for or against the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants". The question is about democratic functioning. Minister, are you finally going to make all the transparency on this issue? For several months, since February, the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs has been asking you to send the Tihange 1 Convention. The Commission operates within a specific legal framework. As a minister, you must forward this document to him. And you refuse to do it. This goes to the anecdote: you refused to reply to the Commission because it wrote by email and you demanded that it write to you by mail, probably in the same way as you do with Electrabel and EDF. We feel like we're not in the 21st century. On 2 March, the Commission demands that you forward this agreement to it and you do not send it. It met again on 13 April. According to the Commission's interim decision, you had to forward this document to the Commission so that it could decide whether or not to advertise the document in question. You didn't. On 4 May, the Commission would meet again and give you about 15 days to deliver the document and you have still not done so. On 8 June, after three interim decisions, the Commission – and it was right to do so – concluded that you discredited Belgium in the eyes of Europe. Madam Minister, before we begin our debates on Doel 1 and Doel 2, I hope that from this rostrum you will let us know that you have understood the message given to you, including by the Prime Minister who invites you to make all the transparency in this matter, that you will communicate this agreement to us and that you will finally play the game of transparency. The Administrative Documents Access Board was entitled to receive this document, which was not the case. It has therefore decided to oblige you to make it public without conditioning its disclosure to any agreement of a private partner. This is the rule of law that is being discussed here. You already had an obligation to transmit it in February. There is therefore no question of subordinating to any private partner, whether it is Electrabel, EDF or anyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u4	If no one asks to speak on the same subject, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would be remiss if I did not trace the exact course of this matter, as the appellants have done, within the framework of the Commission which exercises its imperium on environmental documents. I would also like to take this opportunity to take a look at the legal implications of this situation, which goes far beyond the framework of this Commission. First, as a retroact, the Tihange 1 Convention was signed on 12 March 2014 by the previous government. There were five signatories to the Convention: - the Belgian State, represented by Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo and his Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Melchior Wathelet; - the public limited company Electrabel; - EDF Belgium public limited liability company; - the public limited company GDF Suez; - the limited company Électricité de France. This agreement was, at the express request of investors, concluded under the seal of confidentiality which was accepted by the previous government. On 19 December 2014, a journalist, Mr Christoph Meeussen, requested access to the Convention on the basis of the Act of 5 August 2006 on public access to environmental information. Article 18 of the Act provides that any person who so requests has the right, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Act of 2006, to consult on the spot any environmental information available to an environmental body and to obtain explanations about it and to receive a copy thereof, without having to justify a particular interest. On 14 January 2015, a similar application was initiated by Greenpeace, represented by Mr Cappelle. Greenpeace's request was particularly broad, since it also requested access to the documents relating to this Convention and to the extension of the Tihange 1 plant, such as all e-mails, mails, the negotiating agenda, etc., for the period from 1 January 2013 to 14 January 2014. At that time, the Commission's messages have intervened, as has been said, by means of e-mails but without due process. A procedure provided for in the 2006 Act must be followed and must give official character to the requests made by this Commission in respect of any external intervener, in this case my office. We have therefore requested that the letters be sent to my chief of staff in order to ensure due process. I then replied twice to this Commission, i.e. to the letters it had sent to my chief of staff on 9 February and 17 March 2015 and said: "It is not that I do not want to give this agreement or access to this agreement, it is that I cannot do it". I have explained this impossibility by stating, on the one hand, that I did not have all the documents requested by the Commission, notably in the archives of my predecessor, the Secretary of State, Melchior Wathelet. On the other hand, in the absence of environmental content in the Convention, since the Convention focuses on the application of the legal rules which allow the calculation of the nuclear fee, I did not see the need for communication or access to the Convention. It was also made clear that the Convention contained only economic and financial information. Some parliamentarians in this chamber are well aware of this because, during the previous parliamentary term, they had access to this convention in a dataroom, particularly Mr Calvo. They were able to note that, indeed, it contained information of an exclusively economic and financial nature and that the Belgian State was bound, vis-à-vis the other four partners, by strict confidentiality commitments protected by the Belgian Civil Code and, as I will tell you later in my presentation, by the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty. The request of the Federal Board of Appeal for access to environmental information to access the Tihange 1 Convention, within the framework of the law establishing it, comes up against the prescriptions of two pieces of legislation. This is, on the one hand, the text of article 1134 of the Civil Code, which states that "legally formed conventions shall be used as a law by those who have made them. They may be revoked only from their mutual consent or for the causes permitted by law. They must be executed in good faith." On the other hand, I read out Article 10 of the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty, which states that "when a State contracts with an international undertaking, i.e. an undertaking whose headquarters are not situated in its territory, each Contracting Party shall respect its obligations towards an investor or towards the investments of an investor of another Contracting Party". As a result, as soon as the Belgian Civil Code and the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty (international document) were violated, it was up to the Belgian State, just as committed to transparency as all of us, to respect its obligations thus undertaken, in particular through the continuation of the legal personality of those who had contracted with these companies in 2014, namely Charles Michel's predecessor and my predecessor. It is in this sense that, in response to the requests made, I wrote to all the undertakings which have signed the Convention. Indeed, according to the Civil Code and article 1134 of the Civil Code, which the parties have done, they can undo together and I have asked them to lift the confidentiality attached to this convention. To date, I have not received a favourable response. We learn from the press that these companies are working together on the best way to respond, as EDF France remains very attached to the economic information contained in this convention and has difficulty dropping it. That's why she asked for confidentiality. And I have just explained to you that the Belgian State must, in accordance with the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty, protect international companies in their investments if the Belgian State has contracted with them. You're telling me that you want to make this convention public, which suggests that you have it. If you feel this is necessary, take your responsibilities! The Belgian State assumes its responsibilities and complies with the requirements of the Civil Code, as well as with international treaties. I repeat that you have had access to this convention for some of you. You know her. You are therefore well aware that the Environmental Commission had no access to this Convention because it does not contain any environmental elements. In addition, the Commission lost any possibility of action as it emptied its referral by its decision of 8 June 2015. In this decision, contrary to what you say, she laments that I do not disclose the agreement or that I do not give access to it, but she does not say that I must make it public. She regrets it, but she doesn't have the power to make me do it. I'm not the only one concerned. I am concerned as a government, as a State that must comply with its obligations. In my exchange with the undertakings which signed the Convention, I therefore asked whether a dataroom could not be provided for again. Mr President, it would be organised here even between the walls of the House for any parliamentarian who wishes to do so, and not just the parliamentarians of the Committee on Energy. EDF France may continue to want to preserve confidentiality. It is his right according to international treaties. I would remind you, however, that EDF France could award in arbitration the Belgian State to claim damages, according to the international charter. In addition, damages could be claimed not only from parliamentarians who violate secrecy, on the basis of Article 1382, but from any other person who does, and certainly from the partners who have signed this agreement. I don't think it's necessary to get to that end. I believe that we have an intermediate means compatible with the necessary transparency in such circumstances by organizing a dataroom. Mr President, as soon as I have the answer from this company, I will immediately officially transmit it to you as a useful follow-up in our House. I cannot do anything more today, at the moment I am speaking to you, if I do not accept the Belgian State's responsibility on the basis of the legal prescriptions that I have just recalled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u6	Mr President, I note that quite a few members of the majority applaud the Minister's reply, and that surprises me, because the Minister's reply not only discredits himself, but discredits our institution and our country as a whole. I can only observe that the Minister is persevering in anger. There are two points I would like to make. Firstly, if the Minister outlines the course of the past few months, then it is not consistent. She says that she did not have the convention, but at the same time she argues with regard to the committee that the convention contains economic and commercial information. Mr Verherstraeten, you should try to do so at the same time: on the one hand, you do not have the convention and on the other hand you say what it says. Can you do that? No, you can't. We cannot, on the one hand, have the convention and, on the other hand, know what it says. That is a first point with which Minister Marghem discredits himself but also Parliament. Secondly, I will deliver the opinion of the Appeals Committee to the Registrar in a moment's time. The Minister once again tells falsehoods when she says that the committee regrets that she has not delivered the opinion, but does not ask for it to be made public. Mr President, I am also addressing you personally. I gave you that advice yesterday. Surely you can now confirm that that opinion states that the Federal Appeals Committee is asking for access to environmental information to be made public? Correct or incorrect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u7	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u8	Madam Secretary, the chairman nods. The committee did ask you to do so. Mr Bracke supports me in that. Madam Minister, you have just told Parliament that the Appeals Committee did not ask you to do so. So once again, you're laughing at this institution in her face. Can you applaud for that, fellow Members? The President-in-Office of the Council, along with me, notes that the Minister is lying about this! The Appeals Committee states quite clearly that the administrative documents requested must be made public, that the public interest cannot be denied with disclosure. The Appeals Committee even lists the documents concerned. Madam Secretary, how can you tell us here that the Appeals Committee did not ask you to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u9	Mr President, I shall read out the decision: 'In the absence of cooperation from the cabinet and/or the administration, the committee was not in a position to carry out its tasks entrusted to it by law. This law itself constitutes the transposition of Directive 2003 and the Aarhus Convention, so that the implementation of the obligations is binding on Belgium. The committee can only regret the Minister's choice not to give her access to the document requested. This prevents the proper functioning of the committee and discredits the Belgian system at European and international level. This means that the Commission deplores the fact that the documents have not been communicated...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u10	Go on! Also quote the other paragraphs! Not just this one! All paragraphs, all conclusions, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u11	I've read everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u12	Monsieur le président, je vous cite la fin du document: "Bruxelles, le 8 juin. "The Commission was composed as follows: Martine Baguet, President, Frankie Schram, Secretary and Member, Marie De Lombaert, Deputy Member, Claudia Hildebrand, Deputy Member." That's the end of the decision. What more can I say? The decision states that the Commission regrets not having received the communication of this document, that it cannot go any further and that it cannot carry out its duty in accordance with the legislation establishing it. It does not say - because it does not have the power - that these documents must be made public. You're wrong! I would like to present the copy, Mr President, of this committee's decision and you will be able to see it yourself. Minister Jambon, sitting next to me...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u13	Madam Minister, you dare to do this in a plenary sitting, read an opinion and put it in the decision after the first paragraph! Mr Jambon, can you scroll on Mrs Marghem's iPad and read the full conclusion? (...): They erased it. It was the firm that erased it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u14	Would you please read the last paragraph of the conclusion, before Brussels, 8 June 1999, which the Minister did quote? Could you quote the last three lines, Mr Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u15	I can only say that the Minister for Energy has read out the opinion that I have received here, under point 3.3 of the Decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u16	The complete decision has three paragraphs. Mr Nollet is now handing it over to Mr Jambon. I don't want to leave any doubt. Mrs Marghem, what are the last three sentences of the decision? (...): There are several versions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u17	Mr. President, I'd like to. But I want to reassure everyone, it does not change anything. I have read to you the text of this decision, as communicated to me. I will now read what you put under my nose and I will see if it inners the fundamental principle that, when an institution that can make a decision has emptied its referral, it is no longer competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u18	Mr President, in participating in the discussions, it is not easy to know who is telling the truth. Under these conditions, would it be possible to distribute the document(s)? This would, in any case, make it possible to have a more interesting debate. I don't know if there are one or two documents, but it would always be better if we were in his or her possession so that we could examine the situation with full knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u19	Mr President, I fully agree with the request made by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx because I believe that it is entirely justified to the extent that it is desirable for everyone to be able to rely on the same document. So I'm going on with my reading. In addition, and in order to avoid excessive formalities in the contacts between the secretariat of the committee and the cabinet, the Committee's previous interlocutors have always understood this in such a way that in the future a contact person would be designated to enable constructive dialogue with the secretariat and to facilitate the use of e-mails, which today are a normal way of communicating and exchanging information. Since no grounds for exception can be invoked, the administrative documents requested should in principle be made public. This simply means, gentlemen, that the Commission, after regretting that I do not give access to the documents, recalls that, in principle, the legislation establishing it requires them to be communicated. But this does not mean that its decision has an enforceable effect that requires it to do so. You read it at your discretion, but I tell you and I repeat – and you will go to all the experts you want – that this commission has emptied its referral.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u20	Mr Van Rompuy, you have 35 years of parliamentary experience. Have you seen what we've just been through? Everyone has heard that the Minister says that the Appeals Committee did not ask her to make it public. "You're wrong! I'll read you the conclusion." The minister reads the first paragraph of the conclusion and, amazingly, she stops! What does the conclusion say? And you have confirmed that, Mr President of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u22	Mrs. Marghem, let me finish. What does the conclusion say? You read it in the second instance. That they should be made public. So, even under these circumstances... (Rumbling) The committee even says...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u24	The Minister says that this should not be made public and reads half of the conclusions. The opinion points to the point, and there are four documents to be made available. So here's what I'm suggesting. I will deliver this document to the Registrar and then it will be distributed to the banks. In the meantime, we shall suspend this sitting. I do not ask for this every week, but after this scene we ask for a suspension, so that every Member can look at the opinion. The Minister has just lied to Parliament. The committee has said that the documents must be made public. The Minister, however, knowingly or not, has stopped halfway through the conclusion. I believe, Mr President, that this is absolutely impossible in a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u25	Mr President, I believe that as President of this House, of all of us... You're already smiling. I suggest you don't do that. [[Rumor]] I just want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a serious fact. This is a serious fact. Apart from the fact that we differ on the content, extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2. What we have just experienced here... Either there are two different documents and Mrs Marghem has received one document and my fellow Members have received another document, which I do not suppose, or there is a manifest lie here in plenary. I can't draw a different conclusion. (Rumbling) Mr President, I therefore propose that we get the documents and that the sitting be suspended for a short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u26	Mr President, when we went to the rostrum earlier, both Kristof Calvo and I explained the Commission's decision and in particular the dates of the interim decisions. I can see what's going to happen. The minister chooses the texts she will refer to and does not talk about the texts we refer to. The Commission's decision is clear and the Minister seems to discover its content. This decision says it must be public. This is, of course, the decision in relation to Greenpeace. And the minister, in her reply, which was registered, referred well to the case of Greenpeace. The recording exists and we can listen to it. This is the Greenpeace decision. Do not tell us today that this is another decision, which would have been before the Commission and which would have been shorter in its conclusion. Here, we were talking to you and you were telling us about Greenpeace's decision. This decision is very clear: documents must be made accessible. If you don't, we will. You invite us to assume our responsibilities and we will act accordingly. You're referring to international conventions, Minister. But the Commission also refers to international conventions, the Aarhus International Convention. Mr Ducrame, you went to Aarhus, not long ago, with your parliamentary group. In this city, an extremely important convention on environmental law was signed, including the possibility for everyone - and not only parliamentarians - to have access to the essential elements of environmental law. That is what the Commission recalls, and that is what you did not read in the text that you delivered here in plenary, pretending that it was another matter. As we talked to you about the Greenpeace case and you answered us about the Greenpeace case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u27	We had reached an agreement earlier in the Conference of Presidents. Questions had to be asked; they were. The minister replied. We agree with the demonstration she made. However, I am joining Mrs. Onkelinx. I think that the best thing is that the rooms are distributed and that we can continue this debate with as much serenity as possible. Mr. Nollet said that the minister chose the documents; Ms. Temmerman spoke of lies. We're going up in the towers all over again. This debate has the right to a bit of serenity. We ask you, Mr. President, to have the coins distributed. We believe that we do not need to suspend the debates, that they can be prolonged rather than continue this cinema.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u28	Mr President, I think this debate is much ado about nothing. I'm trying to play a little referee between two theses. Mr Marghem has just read out a letter from the Federal Appeals Committee on access to environmental information. This letter bears the characteristic FBC/2015/1. It concerns the profession of Mr Christoph Meeussen. Mrs Marghem has just given a correct reading of this letter, which was addressed to her. If there are other documents on other professions, of which the Minister has no knowledge at present, then there are two different documents. The document in your possession bears the FBC/2015/3 feature. I believe that both documents can be distributed without difficulty. We are talking about two different documents on two different professions. I'll get to the bottom of it. If we read the opinion of Mr Gordon Ecolo-Groen, this does not change the substance of the matter. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to move on to the essence of the debate and to stop this show here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u29	The truth has its rights and the reading of the documents will allow us to better understand. Could I make a proposal that seems constructive to me? Two projects are on the agenda. The second relates more specifically to what we are discussing, namely nuclear security. Could we not distribute all the documents in order to allow each one to make his or her own religion, philosophy, work on the first project and, between the two projects, briefly interrupt the session and start the second project after considering the documents that you have circulated? This will allow us to work constructively on the first project (majority-opposition), but also to take into account what has just been said and take the time to examine the very important documents that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u30	Yes! Meanwhile, the documents will be distributed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u31	Mr Jambon, you have recently done your job as a Member of Parliament in a very good, strong and convincing way. I therefore regret your statement that a show is being staged here. I thank you for trying to shed some light on the issue. There are indeed two statements by the Federal Appeals Committee, one about Meeussen and one about Greenpeace. But if the Minister has just said that the Appeals Committee has not given a ruling on whether or not these documents should be made public, she is completely mistaken. The conclusion of 8 June in the Greenpeace case is crystal clear. Mr Jambon, with all due respect, but if you say that the Minister is now discovering these matters, I am very sorry. We can follow here day after day the correspondence with the Minister's cabinet. It is normal that we do not accept that the Minister in Parliament should simply say that she should not make it public and that this is not the committee's ruling? The committee's statement, as my fellow Members will be able to see shortly, is crystal clear: it must make these documents public. She'd do better today than tomorrow. If she doesn't do it on Monday, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u32	Mr President, one thing is not in the opinion that the Ecolo-Green Group is waving here, namely a mandate from the committee to the minister. It doesn't say that. If it doesn't, it's hard to say the Minister is lying. There is therefore no need to follow up on this at all. It is no longer possible for people here to take the floor without getting it and disrupting the work. I'd like to ask you to move on to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u33	After Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u34	Mr. Chair, either the minister is misinformed or the minister has hidden part of the conclusion. It is important, and I think it is also important for Mr Ducarme, that we can clarify this event. The distribution of all the documents will help us, that is, the decision on which the minister relied, in any case the text she had before her eyes, and the decision we had and gave to distribute. I also ask the services to distribute to us the account of what has been said so far. In this way, when we resume work earlier, we will be able to observe that, in the minister's answer, it was the case of Greenpeace and not the other case. Madam Minister, you clearly mentioned Mr. Cappelle who filed the appeal. And this has already been achieved in the past, Mr President, the interim reports have already been released. Mrs Onkelinx has proposed that we resume this debate earlier: it is quite feasible. Because we want to read again the passage referred to here concerning the Greenpeace judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u35	Colleagues, this is my conclusion. The documents will be circulated. For the rest, I agree with Mrs Onkelinx's proposal, which starts with the first draft. In the meantime, we have time to read the two documents and see what we can do about your question. I therefore propose that we move on to the first draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u36	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on various energy provisions must be seen as a whole in the draft law on security of supply which we will be discussing in the near future. The draft law, which was discussed in the Committee on 19 May, has a dual objective, on the one hand, the partial transposition of Directive 2012/27/EU of 2012 on energy efficiency, in particular Article 15 relating to demand response and, on the other hand, the establishment of a budget fund for energy transition, to promote research into and the development of innovative energy projects, in particular on energy production and storage. This fund will be based on the remuneration to be paid to the Federal State, in accordance with the law of 13 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production, inserted in the draft law on security of supply provisions in the field of energy, which will be voted on tomorrow. I come to the presentations of the various members of the committee. Mrs Lalieux generally sees few problems in the partial transposition of the European Energy Efficiency Directive. On the other hand, it questions the uncertainty about the revenue for the energy transition fund and the exact meaning of innovative energy projects. Is this only renewable energy sources or are other projects eligible, such as energy atoll? Mr Friart felt that this bill perfectly fits into the government's strategy to manage the energy transition. In order to ensure security of supply, it is necessary to mobilise sufficient resources for energy research. The transposition of the European Directive offers the possibility of reducing energy consumption by stimulating energy efficiency. Mrs Dierick considers the present draft law to be a step forward in improving energy security. The extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 is only an element in the whole energy security policy. It also wants to know what type of projects is eligible and what happens to the fund set up in the context of the lifetime extension of Tihange 1. Mr Wollants notes that the energy transition fund is a translation of a wish from the previous legislature, namely that yesterday's technology will finance tomorrow's. It also welcomes the good understanding in the consultation committee between the Federal State and the Regions. According to him, this bill is an important step in energy transition and energy independence. I myself have stressed the importance of the energy transition fund. It offers a short- and medium-term solution and opportunities to invest in energy transition and energy storage in the longer term. The economic impact must not be underestimated either. Mass and timely investment in the sector of new energy sources creates jobs and provides know-how that our country can export later. Mr Nollet stated that the other points contained in the Action Plan contained in the Government Decision of 18 December 2014 were treated remarkably slower than the present draft. For example, he had questions about Elijah's investment plan and preventing the closure of conventional production units. He also asked questions about the broad formulation of the transition fund's possibilities and the lack of clarity about its resources. He wondered whether any other means other than nuclear interest would go to that fund. Mr de Lamotte felt that the strategy presented was inconsistent and wondered why Annex 11 of the Directive was not included in the present draft. He also asked for more clarity about the resources and the use of the energy transition fund. He also informed about the structural measures to achieve the energy transition. Finally, Mr Calvo raised the question of whether nuclear interest would provide sufficient resources to enable investment in new technologies. He also stressed the importance of thermal power stations and asked whether the MYRRHA project could involve funds from that fund. In its reply, the Minister indicated that Annex 11 would be converted into a later draft law. The strict deadline for transposition of the Directive, 5 June, prevented inclusion in the present draft. The development of a full legal framework for demand management services seems premature. Demand response will play an important role in balancing. The Minister also stated that the CREG would be involved and that tariffs should reflect energy efficiency, energy savings and optimal use of energy infrastructure. Efficiency will be more important than volume. As far as the fund is concerned, the Minister pointed out that it can only be fed by the funds provided for in this bill and that these funds should be used as described in this bill. The arrangements for reimbursement will be laid down in an agreement between the State and the owner of Objectives 1 and 2. As regards the strategic reserve and the capacity market, the Minister will await the CREG study. According to the Minister, Elia can play its role as transmission system operator in Belgium and also develop foreign commercial activities. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats tabled five amendments which were not approved. The draft law was then adopted in committee with ten votes against four.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u38	I would like to thank Mr Wilrycx and open the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill containing various provisions on energy, the purpose of which is, in particular, to transpose an energy efficiency directive which is obviously fundamental to ensuring security of supply. We know that this is primarily a matter of regional jurisdiction, but that the federal government still has a role to play in this area. It is therefore a partial transposition of a directive. In addition, other elements of the latter will be further transposed. The bill under consideration has a positive element. I want to talk about the new skills given to CREG in terms of energy efficiency. With regard to the creation of an Energy Transition Fund, at this stage, we do not know what revenue will be paid to it, since this is the fee for Doel 1 and Doel 2 which is not yet known, since the bill contained in item 2 of our agenda is silent as to the details of this charge. And the expenditure allowed in this Energy Transition Fund is a little bit of a "tote" expenditure. Indeed, it is not really known which projects can be financed from the fund in question. One thing we know is that the minister will abide by a previous law. That is how the atoll cannot be financed through it. As far as the political point of view is concerned, I will not be very long. The government has requested that this bill be considered at the same time as the bill to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. The Minister indicated that an agreement had been reached between the parties of the majority to that effect. It is obvious that the request of the parties present in the government to debate the two pieces of legislation at the same time is only due to the desire to tell a story to journalists and the public with the creation of a budget fund that remains, at this stage, a completely empty shell. Given the lack of clarity as to the revenues available to it, the government is trying to make us believe that its energy policy is not based solely on nuclear energy. As far as energy is concerned, the only concrete decision taken by the Minister concerns the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. As I have already said in committee, Mr President, this second project is just a cover-up of the policy of "all nuclear energy". Of course, we do not see any problems in making electricity and gas transmission networks more efficient. But please, Minister, do not present this project to us as a solution to our security of supply problems because it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill we are looking at together must be concluded – it has been recalled by our rapporteur – with the bill on security of supply provisions in terms of energy and demonstrates, if it is still necessary, that we intend to provide our country with effective tools to ensure energy supply, in the short, medium and long term. Indeed, we have taken immediate note of the gravity of the situation and have taken urgent steps to take the necessary measures, but our will remains to provide our country with a sustainable strategy to guarantee the sovereignty and energy independence of our country. We owe it to our citizens and businesses. They deserve energy that is both affordable and also with a high degree of security and safety. Without a strong and immediate measure, in the event of a harsh winter, we all know that our hospitals, retirement homes, public services, citizens and businesses are at a high risk of blackout. Colleagues, as a reminder, the Federal Office of the Plan has estimated the cost of one hour of blackout at EUR 120 million. It is in this context that this draft law originally assembled into a single text before the Council of State, in its opinion of 6 February 2015, indicates that it could only recognize the urgency for the consideration of the draft law on the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors, at the same time distinguishing between short-term measures and medium- and long-term measures, in which the measures contained in this draft law are applied. The aim is to create an energy transition budget fund to encourage research and development in innovative energy projects, including energy production and storage. It thus partially transposes Article 15 of Directive 2012/27 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to return briefly to the content of these measures, which are part of the energy strategy which the government intends to finally equip our country. The creation of the Energy Transition Fund first will be fueled by the nuclear rent. It will, on the one hand, encourage research and development in innovative areas to promote this energy transition and, on the other hand, ensure and strengthen our security of supply and the balance of the network. As regards the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive, it will be recalled here that it is part of the ambitious European energy efficiency plan, including the 20-20-20 strategy. To this end, the Union has established a framework for energy efficiency and conservation policies in the Member States. Through this Directive, it intends to impose a series of binding measures aimed at achieving significant results in terms of energy saving. While energy efficiency is primarily the responsibility of the Regions, the opinion of the Council of State suggests that the Federal State remains responsible for the transport of energy. The present draft also specifies certain elements strictly relating to the transport network or to the competence of the CREG. It will enable the Commission to provide for the tariff guidelines while adding a general competence for non-discrimination of products originating from demand management in the wholesale energy market. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as you will have understood, is far from trivial. By transposing the European directive, it will enable our country to participate in the European effort to reduce our energy consumption with a responsible impetus for our climate as well as, ultimately, for limiting our energy dependence. By strengthening the CREG, we encourage measures to achieve greater energy efficiency, a prerequisite for the implementation of the strategy pursued by this majority. In the end, we promote the rate remuneration of the transmission system operator when it acts efficiently from an energy point of view. Remuneration will therefore become favourable on the basis of efficiency and not volume. The tariffs will also reflect energy efficiency, energy saving and optimal use of energy infrastructure. Finally, the creation of the Energy Transition Fund will help to encourage technological research and innovation in energy efficiency, including the very important stakes related to storage. In no way will it — I would like to do so, along with the MR, the minister, the federal government — be an opportunity to finance, encourage and support the development of nuclear energy, but rather to finance new methods of energy production such as tidal energy projects. Colleagues, this is not an umpteenth fund. The Minister has made it clear that she wants to raise existing budgetary funds in this area to make her allocation more effective. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have said enough in committee and also by way of introduction: the situation is serious and we must act, take responsibility and that is what we are doing. We also know that the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants alone cannot be the solution to this problem. With this bill, we are finally putting our country in a comprehensive approach, because there is no need to recall that other countries in Europe are experiencing similar situations. It's better to act together. The construction site is huge, huge. We want to move on. Our country cannot afford standstill or stand-alone in this regard. We must act courageously, effectively and in the public interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u41	Mr President, we face enormous challenges in the energy landscape in order to guarantee our supply in the short and long term. In recent weeks and also today, particular attention is likely to be paid to the possible extension of Objectives 1 and 2. This is, of course, not the only measure we want to take to ensure security of supply. We provide a package of measures. We are pleased that they are in Parliament today. CD&V has called for them to be submitted at the same time and hopefully approved. In addition to the extension of Objectives 1 and 2, there is a need to focus on demand management in order to better match supply and demand. The best kilowatt-hour is still what is not being consumed, which is why we strongly support the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive. Finally, as my fellow Members have already said, we are also providing for an energy transition fund, in which Objective 1 and 2 funds come to support innovative energy storage and production projects. CD&V is pleased that these measures are all in one package today, but of course there are other measures in the coalition agreement. A very important measure is, among other things, to see how we can maintain our existing gas plants and ensure that they do not close down. We hope, Madam Minister, that this measure too will soon be submitted to Parliament. We are going to support the present design.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u42	Mr President, in relation to this text, which could have been an extremely important text, I would like to make two essential remarks, beyond what could have been said in the report - I thank the rapporteur in passing. We will not be able to support this text if it does not evolve according to it. First, in the order of achievements to combat the supply difficulty, you make the choice – we will probably talk about it just now – to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2, while, beyond the government's agreement, what was necessary and useful above all, was to put in place a mechanism, as recommended by CREG, which prevents Electrabel and other operators from closing their thermal power plants so easily. If such a device existed today, you would be able to guarantee many of the 1,300 MW that are now threatening to close. That is point 6 of your agreement of 18 December. Rather than working on this, you have been working first and foremost on the extension of nuclear power plants. Of course, the text proposed here is another chapter of your December 18 agreement. It is quite interesting because, a priori, when you are facing the media, when you are in any case on television, you mention the fact that this fund will fund – Mrs Jadin also said here in the gallery – new forms of renewable energy. She talked about tidal energy. And it has made an important point in the rostrum, which is also discussed in committee: this fund will not fund nuclear research or production. My question is for you, Madam Minister, but also for Mrs Jadin, if she wishes. Why not include this dimension as it is in the text itself? That's my second point. It is obviously Article 7 which is concerned here. When we look at the nature of the expenditures authorized by this fund, we see two points. Firstly, "all measures to encourage and support research into innovative energy projects". Could we not include the field of renewable energy, since nuclear energy is excluded? Would this not make it possible to be more precise in the activation of this fund? Under the current proposal, all energy modes can be covered. You say, and I support you, that we will not finance nuclear power from this fund. In particular, your intention is to support the motor tide, offshore energy, etc. And I'm still in federal jurisdiction. Therefore, could the text not be matched with what is said? In the first point of Article 7, the word "renewable" should therefore be added. The second point proposes to maintain, develop or seek any system to guarantee security of supply or balance of the network, including production. Again, all aspects are addressed. I agree with the energy storage component, which is part of federal jurisdiction, as you said in committee, minister. You have responded extensively to the question posed by the Council of State. This is not a problem for us. We support you from a legal and political point of view. There is also no problem with demand management. This is one of the important dimensions to prevent the risk of blackout and lack of supply. Currently, it is under-used. You are right, and we also follow you in that regard. However, the wording of point 2 is even more general than that of the first point. We therefore propose that you strengthen the government's capacity to use this fund around three elements: renewable energy, storage and demand management. These are the aspects you present when you go on television. However, the wording in the text is far too broad and therefore makes it possible to finance everything and anything. That is why I tabled an amendment on the President's desk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft that is now before us is only the out-of-date of the debate that will ensue, but in relation to this mentioned bill, the strategy presented here does indeed illustrate a lack of coherence, since the government does not envisage, through the act under consideration, as required by Directive 2012/27 of the European Parliament of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending or repealing certain directives, to provide for the transposition into a single act of the legislator. We said it in committee, but he's not deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. Article 3, which was discussed in the report, is intended to establish an energy transition fund exclusively for use by the federal government. What will this fund do? This has not been made clear, when we are in a problem of security of supply and no specific answer to this question concerning research, development and other sectors. It's a little fog! What budgetary resources can then be allocated to this fund, given that the mechanism for clearing this fund is not yet known? We don't know that. Minister, there is a fear that the creation of this fund will be nourished by good intentions, which are now lost in a set of vague contours, without beacons. This is what we regret, when at some point we could have clarified a number of points which could have gained and made certain possibilities in terms of energy transition and energy development through the use of this fund. I should like to express this regret in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am still leaving – and I will still do so later – the government agreement that has been recalled by some of you. The government agreement states that, in the context of security of supply, a legislative initiative will be taken that includes two elements. The first is the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear units, with the agreement of the AFCN and the operator, and the operation of these reactors cannot exceed 2025. A few paragraphs below indicate that the Government will take steps to improve the investment framework for the energy market as a whole and to avoid, in an efficient and cost-effective manner, the decommissioning of conventional production units, such as gas and cogeneration, which are not yet at the end of their lives, following modified market conditions. The Government decision of 18 December 2014 to which reference has also been made, which is the implementation of the government agreement I have just read, provides in point 1 for the immediate extension of Doel 1 and 2 units for a period of 10 years without the operation of these reactors not exceeding 2025. As in the spirit of the government, security of supply does not go without technical safety and nuclear safety, the decision of 18 December 2014 states immediately after the Federal Nuclear Control Agency sets the conditions for safety and security, which will be a prerequisite for the extension of these units. Some would have liked the sixth point to be positioned first, but we are following the government agreement that puts it further. The aim is to request recommendations, in particular from CREG, with a view to avoiding the decommissioning of conventional production units such as gas and cogeneration which are not yet at the end of their lives, in particular by ensuring that they are profitable. This small general presentation leads to what is of particular interest to us today. In the context of this decision of 18 December 2014, which contains eight points, point 4 states that an energy transition fund should be set up with adequate means, the modalities of which will be subsequently defined for the purpose of encouraging research and development in innovative energy projects, in particular for the development of energy production and storage. It is very specific, but it also says that the details and modalities will be defined later by another text. Point 5 concerns energy efficiency and says that it is appropriate to transpose the provisions of the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU which falls within its competence, i.e. the federal competence in the field of demand management. That is the political framework in which we operate. Before concluding my general introduction, I would like to point out that the project before us is a separate project from the one that follows and concerns only the ten-year extension of Doel 1 and 2. These two projects were initially one project. To deal with the most pressing issue, the government had decided to table a single project that included short-term measures (decadal extension of Doel 1 and 2), medium-term measures (transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive with respect to federal powers) and long-term measures (creation of the energy fund). Mr President, I am now very much on the subject of this project. I'll call him back. The proposed transposition does indeed constitute a partial transposition of only Article 15 of Directive 2012/27/EU and, in particular, Article 15.4 and 15.8. In order to meet the objectives of the Directive and to allow the development without discrimination of the very important products that are now being developed in our demand management economy, while respecting the independence of the national regulatory authority (CRE) and the ability of the Member State (the Belgian State) to provide guidelines, it is appropriate, in line with the transposition of the third energy package, to add tariff guidelines in the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. This consists of two very important points. The first point is the removal of transport tariff incentives which are detrimental to overall energy efficiency (electricity generation, transmission and supply) or which could impede the participation of consumer erasures in the adjustment market and the provision of ancillary services. I give two examples. First, with regard to transport tariffs, it is envisaged that the incentives detrimental to the overall efficiency of the electricity system, such as incentives in transport tariffs, will be removed which would make it possible to increase the volume of energy transported in a meaningful way. Secondly, with regard to the so-called balance adjustment, it is necessary to allow the participation of consumption erasures. In other words, it is necessary to allow companies that agree to consume less to participate in public procurement, along with production offers, i.e. companies that produce electricity, to set up reserves. There is also a need to promote the integration of demand management products into ancillary services. The second point concerns tariffs aimed at improving the efficiency of infrastructure design and operation. Under the Electricity Directive, tariffs should be made available to suppliers to improve consumer participation in the efficiency of the system, including consumption erasures according to national factors. In order to improve the efficiency of the design and operation of infrastructure, the transmission system operator should be paid a rate when it acts efficiently in the design and operation of its network. In terms of improving consumer participation in the efficiency of the electricity system, there is a need to improve the participation of customers connected to the transmission network in the demand management service. Large consumers such as BASF and Solvay are already making enormous efforts in terms of energy efficiency and demand suppression. The second part of the bill aims to extend the jurisdiction of our federal regulatory body, the CREG, in the Electricity Act, so that it can encourage demand-side resources, such as consumer erasures, to participate in the wholesale market in the same way as supply-side resources, thus energy production. This means encouraging, in view of the access and participation of demand management, particularly in terms of balance, reserves and other markets for network services, all of which are obviously in line with the new European network codes. The competence of CREG is limited to the wholesale market, with the retail market falling within the competence of the Regions. In particular, this will enable CREG to play its role as a facilitator between demand management actors and transmission system operators or other actors. The draft law thus specifies certain elements which relate strictly to the transport network, to the country's security of supply competence, since the encouragement of demand-side resources makes it possible to better balance supply and demand in the energy market, which promotes the stability of energy supply, or to the competence of the national regulatory authority, the CREG, in terms of the wholesale market for balancing, ancillary services and the Belpex. The aim is for CREG to remain vigilant and to have the powers to do so, and that, in the exercise of its powers, resources relating to demand management should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in the wholesale market, respecting the competences of the federated entities. What is the concrete progress of this bill in terms of demand management? It includes two essential elements for further integrating demand management into the Belgian energy market. On the one hand, it actively encourages demand-side resources, such as consumer erasures, to participate in the wholesale market in the same way as supply-side resources. On the other hand, it introduces a tariff guideline into the Electricity and Gas Acts, which will remove any barriers to consumer erasure services in the adjustment market and in the provision of ancillary services. By providing for these provisions, the draft law lays down non-discriminatory treatment rules which allow the market for demand management to gradually integrate into the market for ancillary, balancing and even more so into the wholesale market. Why not have a more comprehensive legal framework? This is because, with CREG, we consider it premature to set up a strict and firm framework for demand management services. Some actors integrate into the current rules without difficulty to carry out their activities. Others are seeking a much more developed framework. The bill fits in between these two tracks. It aims to allow the further development of demand management services, while leaving the future design of the market model free. In doing so, there is also room for sector development and innovation. Thanks to the tasks entrusted to it, CREG will also be able to participate actively in the development of the new Belgian energy market segment. It will therefore be able to promote better integration into the current market. Depending on the reality of the market, once the development of demand management services has increased – that's what we hope and what we want to encourage – new rules can, if necessary, complement this first legal framework. With regard to the Energy Transition Fund, the bill under consideration intends to implement another important decision taken by the government on 18 December 2014, namely the financing of the energy transition by creating an energy transition fund with adequate means, the modalities of which – as I have already said and I repeat – will be defined at a later stage to encourage research and development in innovative energy projects, in particular to develop energy production and storage. I'm making an incise. With regard to renewables, the fund that was created with the extension of Tihange 1 is dedicated to renewables, which is why we have dedicated this new fund to another specific object, which is the production and storage of energy and all innovative projects in this field. The bill provides for the establishment of a budgetary fund within the meaning of section 62 of the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the State budget and accounts. The latter will be financed by the levy referred to in Article 3 of the Law on various provisions on security of energy supply and which inserts an Article 4, § 2 in the Law of 31 January 2003 on the progressive exit of nuclear energy, namely the draft law which will come later for the determination of the nuclear fee linked to the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 power plants. This fee - we cannot repeat too much - is the responsibility of the owner of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants, that is, the sole owner of Electrabel. In the case of third-party investment in these plants, the amount of the royalty will obviously be fairly distributed among the owners according to their respective shares. For the remainder, the draft law provides that the King will determine by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers the precise modalities for the use of this fund. I come to the projects that can be financed from the fund. It is intended to encourage and support research and development in innovative energy projects within the competence of the Federal State. It gives concrete expression to its existence and to this text a wish already expressed during the previous legislature, namely that the old technologies now finance those of the future. It is a question of designing a framework to encourage investment in research and storage in order to facilitate the energy transition and contribute to the security of supply of our country. By facilitating massive and early investment in the innovative energy sector, we can also hope to develop a sector of the economy that will eventually create jobs. It is not a question of using, as some have supported, the means of the fund to encourage nuclear energy; let it be clear. The aim is to encourage the development of new methods of energy production, such as the motor tide or energy storage - as Mr Kattrin Jadin pointed out. As stated in the committee – and I refer to the work of the committee, which has taken place, these, in perfect serenity – the fund will not, to date, be used to support the energy atolls off the Belgian coast. The relevant dossier has recently been discussed in the Council of Ministers, where it will be reviewed before the summer holidays, following an analysis of the systems planned for energy storage. With regard to the funding arrangements for this fund, as you know after reading the project, the entire fee for the extension of Doel 1 and 2's nuclear units will be allocated to this fund. A subsequent law will still have to lay down the procedure for calculating and collecting this fee, as you know. I will shortly come with this bill to the Energy Committee and this Parliament. Moreover, the amount of the fee will have to be calculated on the basis of this law, which will lay down the basic and essential elements of the agreement, which will then have to be established with the operator of the plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u45	Minister, you are saying, as Mrs Jadin did earlier, that this fund will not be used to finance nuclear production or research. But that is not what is written in the text. At present, the text leaves this question open. I agree with you, it is so much better if this fund is not used to finance nuclear power. But why is the text not more precise and does it not prohibit it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u46	For the good and simple reason that the fund – in this we are concretizing the wishes of the previous legislature – is intended to ensure that the old technologies, therefore nuclear, finance the technologies of the future, i.e. innovative projects in production and storage. The project clearly states that this fund, which will be fed by nuclear revenues – technology of the past – will be used to fuel the technologies of the future. What goes without saying may be even better by saying it. But it was already written as it was in the project, I repeat. The Tihange 1 Fund, created during the extension of Tihange 1, is linked to renewable energies. It was therefore not appropriate, with the new fund that we are creating in this bill, to make a redundancy, since renewable energy was already supported by a fund created in 2013. Every effort will be made, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that sufficient resources are available for the planned energy transition fund. In other words, before 15 November 2015 and if negotiations with the operator succeed, the modalities for calculating the fee to feed the fund will be determined and the terms of use of the fund will be determined by the king. The fund will not be operational until the first fee has been collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u47	Minister, you say that nuclear research cannot be funded under this fund. But can the MYRRHA project, for example, be financed from this fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u48	No, as I replied in committee, and the means of financing MYRRHA are budgetary resources that are currently being discussed in IKW and on which I will come to committee later. I'm very careful, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u49	Mr President, I regret that the text does not reflect the words of the minister. This is a problem, because we have clear commitments but a text that, legally, does not take up what the minister says. It's much wider. It makes it possible to finance many other things. We are facing a problem of legal drafting of this intention. This makes our vote impossible, unless the amendment is accepted, which simply translates what is here in the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u50	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u51	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1046/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1046/4) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u52	• 6 - Johan Vande Lanotte (1046/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u53	• 6 - Johan Vande Lanotte (1046/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u54	• 6 - Johan Vande Lanotte (1046/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u55	• 6 - Johan Vande Lanotte (1046/5) • 1 - Kristof Calvo cs (1046/2) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u56	******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u57	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, the documents discussed here have been distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u58	We have indeed received two texts, but we have not yet received the report of the exchanges we had earlier at the beginning of the meeting. I hope that we can observe the context in which the minister presented what was read. The other solution is that we're going back to the whole videotape. It seems a little tedious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u59	First, the documents you are requesting are not ready at this time. Secondly, everyone knows that there is also the right to correction. Each receives the texts and these can be corrected. Even if I had the texts of our remarks from 2:15 p.m., that would be a relative truth. It also seems to me interesting for the minister to speak about what she said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u60	Things have been said. Modern means exist: video, recordings... What is important is to find out in which of the two options we find ourselves. Was the minister aware that there was a whole procedure in relation to Greenpeace? Of course, she knew about it, because she talked about it...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u61	I would like to repeat here what I have immediately transmitted, what I have read, what my colleague Jan Jambon has read to you, which I have received and which is a cover letter addressed to me, which bears my name, which dates from 9 June 2015 and which bears the reference FBC/2015-1. Attached to this cover letter, there is a decision and I have sent you what I have received. What more do you want me to tell you? It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u62	Mr President, unlike Mr Calvo, I did not attend these meetings of secret data rooms that were mentioned earlier. It's unpleasant when you suggest that people have information they don't give. Mr. Chairman, you have had both documents distributed. One of these documents is addressed to Minister Marie-Christine Marghem and refers to a decision. She read to us in a public session, with microphones, cameras and journalists, the text that was sent to her. We still wonder what else you need, Mr. Nollet! We have received on our benches another text addressed to Greenpeace, to Mr Jan Cappelle. There, curiously, this is the same type of decision and comes in addition to two or three additional paragraphs. When it comes to Greenpeace, when it comes to Ecolo's relays, we have another kind of decision! To the limit, we should demand an apology from the Ecolo-Groen Group and MM. Calvo and Nollet. By saying all the time that people lie, that the minister hides the information, that she cheats, even in public sittings, it becomes shameful, Mr Nollet! I understand that we can have a different opinion on the subject. Our PS colleagues have an opinion, they defend it, and we defend ours. But you, you're always busy getting down below the belt! It is not worthy when we want to lead a democratic and respectable opposition! Stop trying to accuse others as if you were the great inquisitors! I am shocked by this attitude! Mr President, I am not as familiar with the file as Mr Calvo, as I said. But I find it a bit surprising that the decision becomes different when it comes to Greenpaace, whose relays we know with Ecolo. It's a really interesting question! I'd like to be explained why we're giving a little layer back when it comes to Greenpeace. You can do that, Mr. Nollet. You showed it to the Walloon Parliament! You have shown the Walloon Parliament that you are capable of this!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u63	Mr President, I will first of all agree with what Mr Miller has said. Unlike other fellow Members, I think I have read and looked at the documents in full. There are two decisions. There is one, FBC/2015/1, concerning Mr Christoph Meeussen's appeal. That decision has been read out by Mrs Marghem and does not impose any obligation to publish or publish any document. None. In the operative part of that document there is nothing more or less than what Mrs Marghem has read. Then there is a second decision, addressed to Mr Cappelle, with the characteristic FBC/2015/3. That's another thing, to be clear. The motivation is different. We must not only read the operative part, but also the justification. The statement of reasons is slightly different in that the first paragraph is the same as the only paragraph in the other decision. The second paragraph simply asks Mrs Marghem to appoint a contact person in her cabinet. The sentence is replaced by the following: "Since no grounds for exception can be invoked, the administrative documents requested must in principle be made public'. So it doesn't say they should be made public. If you want to know the meaning of the words 'in principle', I would advise Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet to read the decision in full, not just the last sentence and start fantasizing. When you read paragraph 1.8, paragraph 3, you will literally find the statement of "in principle'. In addition, the Committee stresses that whether or not information can be considered as environmental information must always be assessed in detail and, consequently, with checks on the various documents requested. She didn't have those documents. That is also what she says in 3.2, in the last paragraph: "Because the committee has not been given access to the relevant documents, it cannot say with certainty that the information contained therein can be understood as environmental information within the meaning of the law." Actually, the committee's just saying she doesn't know. She doesn't know it and it should be made public in principle, but she doesn't know it because she hasn't had access to the documents. In other words, Mrs Marghem is not subject to any obligation to publish anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u64	Mr President, I was not present at the first debate, but I would like to take the floor. I've already looked at the documents. Mr Miller, whom I respect as a colleague, is getting a bit light about it. The Minister read from one of the two letters. The first letter does not state that the documents must be released. The second letter states that the documents must in principle be made public. If the committee says that certain documents should in principle be released, it means that a decision has been taken. We can then discuss the degree of openness, but the decision has been taken. If the Minister only reads one of these letters, there are two possibilities. Either the Minister deliberately did so, or the Minister was not aware of the second decision. I address myself to the Minister, but if she is not interested in what I have to say, I will address myself to the Members of Parliament, because she is fooling them. Either that is what the Minister did on purpose, and that is unacceptable. Either the Minister was not aware of the second decision and that is perhaps even worse. If Greenpeace files an appeal that the cabinet does, but the minister is not aware of, what incompetence are we talking about? There is, therefore, a set-up or incompetence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u65	Mr. President, Mr. Miller is getting upset. This is not the first time, this is not the last time! He's here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u66	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u67	We know each other enough, Mr. Miller, there is no problem with that. But don't go too far, at the risk of having to regret it at the cafeteria! It's no use. Mr Miller, we have already done so in committee. Let's stay calm! Madam Minister, my question was, are you aware of the Greenpeace decision or not? That's just what pissed Mr. Miller off. I don't understand. Are you aware of this decision or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u68	[[...]] I've read you the decision I've received. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u69	Look, I still wish I had the right to speak! For weeks in committee, you have been attacking me personally instead of looking at the bottom of the file, because you are constantly pursuing your ideology! Everything is good to attack me all the time! I'm getting tired of it! I regret: I say what I say because it is true! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u70	[[...]] (...): These are constant personal attacks!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u71	Mr Nollet has the floor, and he alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u72	Mr President, they are not going to be able to camouflage possible mistakes with loud screams. Minister, you can get mad ten times, twenty times, and even stronger. The question today is clear: you say you are not aware of the Greenpeace opinion. It's a real problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u73	Why would I be responsible for this problem? It's unbelievable! Do you really believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u74	Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u75	You smile in a way I find very insidious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u76	Now you're interpreting smiles!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u77	Systematically, I'm responsible for everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u78	Keep calm, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u79	If I didn't exist to give you visibility, you'd have to invent me!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u80	We're still going to be a long time, minister. Stay calm!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u81	I'm very calm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u82	What bothers you that this question is being asked of you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u83	Nothing: I answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u84	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u85	Colleagues, one after the other. Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u86	Let me finish my sentence and then I give you the floor without a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u87	There are many who want to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u88	Mr President, at some point there is a dynamic debate. We are not in primary school, everyone in their rank! [[Protest]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u89	Madam Minister, this is still a serious problem: not being aware of the decision in a case where you were a party to the case and, moreover, in which there have been several previous contacts with your office. Let's get back to the wire! It was in February that the Greenpeace case began and the first interaction with your firm was to say: "I don't answer emails. I want a written letter." So your firm is informed. He knows about this case. In March, the Commission takes a first decision and asks you to give a copy of the document. You won't! The Commission takes a second decision on 20 March 2015, saying that it should be given this document. You won't. Today, neither you nor your firm seem to know. There's no way back and forth. What's going on in your firm? All of this is in the letter you read completely, Mr. Vuye. Minister, when did you ask private partners if you could spread the agreement? A couple of days ago. Why? Because we said we'd do it if you didn't. The Commission's first request came to you in February. But you don't know that! As far as Greenpeace is concerned, you would have learned this today in session. Where are we? How long will you try to present the truth differently from what it has been? Your firm reacted on February 17. It's in the document, Mr. Vuye. Like me, you read it completely. That's right! The Chief of Staff refused to reply by e-mail. He wanted a mail. He received a letter and replied by saying "no". On March 20, 2015, new decision, "no"! In May, we give 20 days! Had the Minister given this agreement to the Commission, there would never have been any problem. Probably the Commission would have decided that this convention should remain confidential. Probably. But, out of pride, the minister has not done so, and today the problem arises because she is proud of this point of view. It's obvious! Of course, all this could have been avoided. Today, however, the Commission has decided that clarity is needed not only on the Convention but also on the elements related to the Tihange 1 negotiation, on the exchange of mail and letters relating to Tihange 1 and, finally, on the negotiating elements of Doel 1 and Doel 2. That's the problem! You didn't answer in February. If you had then, there might have been no problem! But don't say that you or your firm are not familiar with the Greenpeace procedure, while discussions and decisions have taken place in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u90	I call Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u91	Mr President, I asked for the floor before! [[Long Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u92	Mrs. Onkelinx, I'm sorry. Let's be clear! I note the names of all those who ask for the floor in the order in which they are inscribed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u93	Mr President, if it is so problematic and gives rise to such a scene, I would like to exchange views with Mrs Onkelinx. She can answer now and I'll answer later, then maybe she can calm down a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u94	Mr. Vuye, that's gallant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u95	Mr President, we still need to work with the opposition from time to time. You are the president of all the members of this assembly. It hurts to look to the left, but we're here! Madam Minister, in order to be constructive, I would like you to give me a logical explanation. I'm asking you calmly. We received both documents. You have read correctly the conclusions of one of these two documents, which I believe was addressed to you. On the other hand, you stated that you did not have the second document. I do note that the document which has been distributed to us is addressed not to you and your firm, but to Greenpeace, in this case to heer Jan Cappellen. How is it that the Federal Commission can send a document that is, in fact, a decision addressed to an interrogator, namely Greenpeace, without transmitting it to you? Indeed, I believe you when you say you don't have one. Therefore, it can be considered that the Federal Commission committed a fault. Indeed, I assume that it has an obligation, in the context of a matter such as the one before us, to address its conclusions to you. In the event that this document has not actually been transmitted to you, is it contrary to a law? Does the President of this Commission commit her responsibility? Can you explain this to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well the disorder created by the disparity between these two decisions, which is, moreover, strange. I find out with you that a decision is made to some and a different decision is made to others, as if they should be treated differently. That's the first thing I'm surprised about. I have never seen an administrative body produce decisions that are not worth erga omnes since they are different. My reasoning is a legal reasoning based on the Civil Code and the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty, and is by no means innerved by this disparity. I have read to you the decision that I have received ingenuity. I learn that indeed Greenpeace has received another decision, which is different because the references on the cover letter are different, they are addressed to someone other than me. It consists of three paragraphs in the besluit, the first of which is identical to mine, and two other paragraphs. Hence the opposition, wrongly, deduces – and Mr Vuye has explained very well – that the commission would have the power to order the publication or publication of these documents. In fact, no, it simply recalls that, in principle, environmental documents which are administrative acts – one could discuss the quality of an administrative act signed with four private companies – and which relate to environmental issues must be made public. She doesn't say anything else! I reply to that which I have written, because I feel that there is a request and that I want to satisfy this request. I want this agreement to be communicated under conditions that respect the law. So I wrote to these companies and, as soon as I receive the answer, I'll pass it on to the president. I am trying to bring these companies, especially EDF France, to the understanding of transparency with regard to the notion of confidentiality of this convention. I am trying to get them to accept the principle of a data room, since you accepted it in the previous legislature. This will allow any parliamentarian, representative of the nation and concerned with the interests of the Belgian State vis-à-vis the citizen, to consult this convention in full and wide. As far as the general public is concerned, if you consider that data relating to the economy, to the taxation of your company, sensitive economic data, could not be revealed and say so. At least we can observe the difference between the entire convention in the data room and the convention as published in the press or otherwise. There's no problem. I'll make it, but give me time to get there. I would also like to repeat that the Commission, from the moment it rendered its decision in the degree of appeal, has emptied its referral. It recalls principles. She did it a little less for me and a little more for Greenpeace. I'm surprised, but what more do you want me to say? I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u97	The minister answered the question very calmly and very punctually. She issued a whole set of elements that I wanted to take up with more nervousness, so I'm not going to be very long. I will answer Mr Vande Lanotte, who named me. This is not a reproach: everyone is organized as he or she sees fit. As you said yourself, Mr. Vande Lanotte, you did not attend the beginning of the work. We heard the minister's explanation of the decision that was made and why these documents cannot be distributed, even if, in principle, in the answer to Greenpeace, that would be desirable, etc. As far as our majority is concerned, we have obtained the elements of explanation that we were asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on what Mr Vande Lanotte has said and on what Mr Calvo has just said. He asked me if I've ever experienced anything like this in my 33 years of experience. No, I have never been told that a minister is being forced to announce a convention in which it is very clear that only Members of this House can see them, but that the confidentiality of the agreements must be respected. If any of these agreements say that they do not want this to be made public, they simply cannot do so. That would be a huge mistake on her part. Mr Calvo knows that when he announces that, he also makes a mistake. Mr Calvo, if it's all so clear and clear, why don't you put that on the table right away? Because you also know this can't be done. Mr Vande Lanotte, the debate is about a convention that you signed in the previous government. You're in charge of that case. You also approved that confidentiality clause in the Di Rupo government. Are you here to blame your successor for keeping up with the word you signed? Mr Vande Lanotte, since you personally refer to our group, I would like to point out that you have been in all governments for the last 20 years, except a few years. So you have been responsible for energy policy in Belgium for 15 to 16 years. You have even become President of European Socialists who are going to draw up energy policy for the future. If we are in great difficulty with our energy policy at the moment, if we have problems with the supply of electricity at the beginning of next year, then that is the result of 20 years of policy for which CD&V is co-responsible, but for which you are the main responsibility. If you are here in this House to lecture everyone on energy policy, I will not stand for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u99	I call Mr Vande Lanotte for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u100	I'm glad you brought it this way. That allows us to answer. I don't have a problem with that. Firstly, why do we have this problem of security of supply? Every time sp.a in the government was decided on a nuclear trip, it was then decided without sp.a in the government to reduce it. That is the basis of this great problem. The ink of the exit decision was not yet dry or it was already said by prominent people of CD&V, in particular Etienne Schouppe, two years after the date, that this would be reversed. If one keeps going back and forth between the two, one cannot make a decision. It was decided with us in the government. Then it was reversed without us in the government. Then it was decided again with us in the government. Then it was reversed again without us in the government. Secondly, the secrecy is signed by me. I didn't say I'm gonna give up on that, but the law says that the Federal Appeals Committee has to decide on complaints or can do so. What was the minister's duty? That wasn't to make that public. The Minister's duty was to give that document to the committee and it is not public but decided. That committee then had to decide whether that provision was in conformity with European law and legislation. That didn't happen. The Minister did not give the document to the committee. The committee would probably have said, since it was mainly economic information, that it was not covered by the disclosure rule. The determination of confidentiality would have simply maintained. The responsibility is to give it to the committee. In the discussion in that document you can see that. Thirdly, the Minister said: 'I do not know that decision.' All right, but all decisions are sent to the Cabinet. This decision must also have arrived at the Minister's cabinet. Then my legitimate question is this: if the Minister for Energy is not aware of such an important decision, then that is a problem. Either the committee made a mistake and the letter was not sent to the minister, or the letter arrived at the cabinet and the minister was not informed. If the Minister is not informed about such a case, then that is a problem. One must at least have knowledge of these kinds of decisions. That is not a personal criticism of the Minister, but it is about the way in which he operates. If, after seven days, such a decision still does not seep through to the Minister, then there is a problem. You know that very well. You've been a minister yourself. A cabinet must give all information to the minister. Giving one letter, but not the other, is really weird. If it is the committee that made a mistake, it must be cleared up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u101	Mr President, my group leader, Mrs Onkelinx, asked questions to Mrs Marghem, who responded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u102	Firstly, Mr Van Rompuy, you have said that you have never experienced this. It is not the first time that Parliament has been involved in such a debate. Nor is it the first time such a convention or such a pact has been concluded. I brought the report from last time. At that time Parliament also insisted for a very long time and eventually agreed on the publication. I am actually surprised that you are not aware of this. The convention of 14 October 2009 was signed by Paul Magnette and Herman Van Rompuy. At that time, Parliament did exactly what we are trying to do at the moment. It is a simple fight for transparency. This isn't that exceptional. It's actually odd that it's perceived as exceptional. Secondly, our group has just said that the Minister was either selective in her reading of the opinion or she is not aware of the second opinion. That is what our group has said. Today we note that the Minister was not aware of the opinion, the Greenpeace judgment. I fully support Mr Vande Lanotte: that too is a problem. The Minister says he is not aware of that statement today. Colleagues, this is a convention that could involve compensation of hundreds of millions of euros. The minister says she's working on it and she wants to make that convention public, but she's not aware of that judgment. That's a problem too! I maintain every word of my previous speech, Mr Miller. This, again, is not a good way to manage such a sensitive dossier. The Minister may say thirty-seven times that they are personal attacks. No, it is primarily a question of doing politics in a serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u104	No, Mr Dewael, we have said that either the Minister is either reading an opinion selectively or she is not aware of it. If she's not aware, that's a problem too. In both cases, there is a problem. This has to be checked out. Here's what I want to ask you. You have now read the second judgment, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u105	... decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u106	The second decision. My apologies, Mr Vuye. May I say Professor Vuye's decision? Madam Secretary, you have read the second decision. Mr Vuye, there is a decision on this matter. There's a decision in the decision. Madam Minister, if the second decision states that the administrative documents requested are in principle made public with this apparently new element for you, will you change your attitude and guarantee public access? Mrs Marghem, we are trying to clear up the debate in a calmer way than you just did, and you will not even listen. I ask you a question and you don't even listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u107	Mr Calvo, the question has actually already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u108	That's not true. The Minister just said that she had no knowledge of the Greenpeace judgment. You said a lot about the Greenpeace case. If this is new information, it is a problem that you are not aware of. Will this new information change your behavior and will you promise this disclosure? As far as public access is concerned, I once again agree with Mr Vande Lanotte. If you had done your job since February and had replied to the Appeals Committee, there was a very good chance that the Appeals Committee would have decided not to disclose those documents. I agree with that. It is because the Minister did not reply and refused to do so that there is another decision on the table today. It is therefore very logical that today we should ask whether you are going to respect that decision, yes or no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u109	Mr President, I hear all kinds of strange things here. It is said that these are two different decisions, some talk about judgments and opinions, but they are decisions which are different in terms of justification. That is also the most normal thing in the world. In one case, it concerns Mr Christoph Meeussen's appeal and, in the other, Mr Jan Cappelle's appeal. In other words, these are two different decisions, probably based on different petitions which are otherwise motivated. That could explain the difference. What amazes me most in this story is this. Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet request about all the documents. All the documents, all the tables, everything that is possible, anything that could exist or not exist, they demand and must be made public. They even ask for the publication of documents which they say in the press to know their content and which they say they will publish; they ask without any interest, because they know the content, to publish those documents. What surprises me the most is this. The first decision has been taken as No. FBC/2015/3 and the second decision has as no. FBC/2015/1. In other words, there is also a document containing No. FBC/2015/2. I am very surprised that Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet have not yet requested that document. To be honest, I don't think they're doing any serious opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u110	Mr President, I think it is a very educational debate. Mr Vande Lanotte, the law on nuclear exit has also been amended in the last legislature, contrary to what you have just said, namely that this has only happened in governments without the sp.a. In the past government that law was also amended, with the sp.a. I do agree with you if you distinguish between disclosure and communication. In this sense, he has nuanced what the Ecolo-Green Group has been asking for all afternoon, namely a disclosure, which in any case would not be relevant, given the applicable law in this area, and in particular Article 27. On the communication of that case, the Appeals Committee communicated an opinion. It states that the position can be found in the annex. Today, these two positions are pretending to be totally contradictory in these two different cases, which is not the case. Indeed, 80 to 90% of the motivating part and an important paragraph in the decision-making part of that position are copy-paste. However, one dossier dealt with the reasons for the decision in more detail, perhaps in view of the fact that the request was made in more detail. The Appeals Committee has even nuanced itself. After all, she reports that she doesn't really know. Since the committee has not been given access to the relevant documents, it cannot be sure that the information contained in them can be understood as environmental information within the meaning of the law. You will find that paragraph in both decisions or in both positions. Colleagues, I give my personal opinion. I do not even share Mr Vande Lanotte's view on the communications, for the reasons raised by the Minister responsible at the beginning of the sitting. She then referred to the confidentiality clause in the convention. Colleagues, everyone who is dealing with commercial law knows that such a confidentiality clause is very common. Anyone who knows the political history of this country and has knowledge of conventions with an important energy producer in our country also knows that this is a normal clause. Many competent ministers in previous governments and also in the current government know and have seen this clause. I would also like to say the following about whether or not it is compulsory for the committee to be informed. A law cannot overrule a contractual obligation between the parties and therefore the Belgian State. It is my conviction that the Minister was not even allowed to report it. It was not even allowed to do so, because it would have violated the contract in question, with all the risks involved. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have many procedural debates. With regard to this important matter, much more has already been said about the procedure than about the substance of the matter. I just heard the Minister. What did she say about it? It is prepared to make the Convention public if it receives written confirmation from the other parties concerned that it may. So what is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? She can't do it unless she gets permission. If she gets permission, it'll happen. That is the essence of the matter. The rest is procedure, his intention processes or whatever, but not a debate on the substance. Let's finally get to the bottom of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u111	Mr President, Madam Minister, in an attempt to move this debate forward, I would like to refer to the two nodes we have been working on for more than two hours. The first is the difference between the two opinions given on the same day by the same signatories with the same secretary, since the reference is exactly the same. Of course it is surprising that the conclusion is not the same, but ladies and gentlemen and you, Madam Minister, who, in particular, did not have both opinions, let me tell you that these opinions are available on the website of the Federal Internal Public Service. I didn't know earlier, Mr. President. I did not have them myself, I had not done the search on the site, but the fact is that both of these notices are on the website since they are clearly posted online as these notices are issued. Perhaps this is an interesting element to enable us to get out of the discussion that has been taking place for the past few days. Another way to move forward in this debate would be to call the Chairman of the Appeals Board or possibly the Secretary who forwarded the file, in order to know to whom he transmitted it. Even if he confirms that he has passed it on or not, we will not discuss it forever. The fact is that these notices have been public since 9 June, the day they were published on the Home SPF website. The second node, of course, is the convention. I heard stakeholders on this issue, namely the state, today, a few days ago, and also under the previous legislature, your predecessor, say that there was no problem in making this convention public from the moment that stakeholders agreed. Let us recognize that there have been fewer requests under the previous legislature. It had been made available to some. Could we not try to move forward in this debate? I imagine you've had contact with Electrabel and EDF. I saw that Electrabel had positioned itself publicly, saying that there was no problem in making this convention public. Let us remember that a law was passed a few months earlier, setting out clearly the parameters leading to the conclusion of this convention. Minister, could you not, in order to move this debate forward a little bit, contact Electrabel and EDF? You did, but we're here in a knot and I'm trying to unravel things so we can get to the core of the discussion. The main thing is nuclear security and people's safety. And also security of supply for next winter, for citizens and businesses. Could you not make contact with them, since they have spoken publicly, so that we can get out of this impasse? This convention could then be unveiled in the public square so that we can move towards the essentials. This discussion has been going on for more than two hours. It's time for everyone to put their hands on it so we can get out of the dead end. We need to focus on discussing alternatives, security of supply and human security in the context of nuclear discussions. It is time to make positive progress for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u112	In response to various colleagues, Messrs. Verherstraeten, Van Rompuy or others, I would like to say that we should stop sending the ball back to previous governments, even if the PTB is obviously not concerned. The parliamentary debate deserves better than that. It's a first thing. What seems to me to be fundamental is the secret of the convention. When a convention is secret, it is absolute, it is necessary. Two things have to be balanced. On the one hand, we have the interest of a few multinationals that have imposed the confidentiality of documents, and on the other hand, there is everything about environmental issues and nuclear security. I wonder, on what behalf, governments or ministers keep confidential documents. In this case, it is not a matter of discussions with toy producers. These are nuclear producers and, in nuclear matters, there is no need for secret documents. This is a general principle that should be adopted because it is too serious a matter, too important to admit that nuclear producers can impose the confidentiality of certain documents. Public opinion must have access to all documents, unless nuclear safety is called into question. This exception aside, it must be an absolute. I note that in all this dossier on Doel 1, Doel 2, Tihange, etc., there is an incredible grip of these multinationals (GDF Suez, EDF, Electrabel). In all aspects, they impose their agenda. Former representatives of Electrabel are present in the Federal Agency, which is responsible for making the essential decisions. Representatives of Electrabel are present in the cabinet of the Minister of Energy. There is really a "coup d'état" of Electrabel in our country's energy policy. This is unacceptable! A document cannot be confidential, even if it poses legal problems. I prefer the state to pay damages, rather than to leave secrets of such essential documents on the environmental, energy future of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u113	Mr President, first of all I would like to say a word to Mr Verherstraeten. I do not think we can say that we are outside the substantive debate. We can, of course, have a different view, but I believe that we are at the root of the problem, because this is about transparency in relation to essential elements that bind the State. It is a question of whether or not agreements which commit up to 2025 with an extremely large budget amount, 600 million or 700 million euros, are documents which bind the federal state. This need for transparency is therefore logical. This is the substance of the debate because it is framed by the Aarhus Convention. The Commission on Access to Environmental Administrative Documents was not created suddenly by a minister in his corner. It is an international convention which, in the field of the environment, gives access to a series of documents which would otherwise not be available in other files. That is why it is important for us, as ecologists, to continue to work and to make all the transparency. We've done it in committee and we're going on now. When we asked the minister a moment ago and when she started reading the conclusion, we expected her to read the conclusion we know, the conclusion to the end. We didn't set up a trap for the minister. We knew the conclusion and that conclusion was public, as Mrs Fonck said. She's on the site. Mr Ducrame, I specifically referred to the decision, not the judgment, the Greenpeace decision. That is why I wanted to review the text. But let's go... I explained to Mr. Verherstraeten why I felt that this fact is at the heart of the problem. We have been able to identify, with this debate, at least two problems. First, as early as February, the Minister did not give a copy of the agreement to the Commission, which could have judged whether or not it should be made public. The Commission may have decided not to make it public. This is a problem that has been clearly identified today. The second concern is that, obviously, the firm is not aware of the Greenpeace decision (referenced /3), while its firm should have received this mail, but let's give it the benefit of the doubt. In the coming hours, we will understand where the mail remained and why we didn't know about it, while it was public on the sites. I have one more question. You say you learned the final decision on the Greenpeace component in the session. I assume you were familiar with the previous, provisional, April, March decisions? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u114	Could you repeat what you said with your activated microphone. I know you're not responsible for this. I therefore ask the appropriate department to activate the Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u115	I came with the final decision but obviously decisions were made (one or more, I don't know exactly) in an intermediate way. If you want me to produce them, I'll produce them for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u116	No, we have them; they are available on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u117	I will do the necessary investigations to find out what is going on in this communication, in order to reassure you, but it is not the bottom line of the problem! The substance of the problem is whether or not access to this Convention and the legal requirements apply to it and allow or do not allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u118	The Minister confirmed that she was well aware of the intermediate decisions. There were three in all. They're all on the site. They are perfectly accessible, as Mrs Fonck says. Minister, my last question is: when did you initiate the proceedings with EDF and Electrabel to ask for permission to broadcast the convention? Have you waited the last few days, without knowing the decision on Greenpeace, or have you started the steps as early as February, from the first interim decision? I stand by and wait for the answer on this last point. Then we can get to the bottom of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u119	To the extent that I explained to you what I had answered to the committee. First, that it was a convention that I knew was dealing with economic and financial and non-environmental elements. Secondly, that this convention was subject to confidentiality and therefore, in the light of the Civil Code and the 1994 Energy Charter Treaty, I was not allowed to communicate it. In addition, after the final decision, I sent the relevant letter to the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u120	So you knew the final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u121	Of course. It doesn't matter! You have the whole body of the decision. Do not mix, Mr Nollet, with the work of a committee dealing with environmental data and the desire you have and have repeatedly expressed in the press to make this convention public! I am not stupid, and I am quite able to understand that this convention will have to be made public, which I wish for. To do so in a global way erga omnes, I write to companies to ask them if they accept – I do so officially because I know that one of them does not want to – yes or no and under what conditions to drop confidentiality. That's what I'm doing. If you wish, you can blame me for what I'm doing. But, in that case, we won't understand anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u122	Mr President, I would like to ask a very simple and practical question. You have distributed a first document which was sent to Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem, Minister of Energy. This document was sent on 8 June and bears a stamp of receipt on 9 June. Who put that stamp on? I guess it's your office, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u123	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u124	In that case, who is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u125	From what I've seen, the two documents bear the same stamp. I take your question very seriously, Mr Delperee. I will therefore have an administrative inquiry carried out within my office and within the Internal FPS with my colleague responsible for this matter, and I will come to explain the results of this investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u126	When you receive a letter, don't you have a receipt stamp?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u127	No. In any case, not in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u128	I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u129	Mr President, I would like to end the debate in one way or another. The decisions we are discussing this afternoon have been on the Internet for some time now. The decisions concern the convention between the electricity producers and the Belgian State with regard to Tihange. We should normally talk today about Objective 1 and Objective 2. The discussion of the decisions of the Appeals Committee could soon become a matter of no concern if the parties concerned gave their consent to the competent minister to release the documents. The whole discussion is then in fact completely out of date. My proposal is therefore to deal with the agenda, namely the draft Objective 1 and Objective 2. The next few hours and/or days will show whether the Minister can make the convention on Tihange public. If she gets permission to do this, the case will be resolved. If she is not allowed to do so, let us continue the debate on this in committee. I'm prepared to do that. In this way we can continue the debate on Objective 1 and Objective 2 on the substance here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u130	Mr President, I would like to come back to an element which is constantly overlooked. The question was whether the transfer of the agreement to the Appeals Commission violates the obligation of confidentiality. The answer to that question is no! This document is signed by two or three ministers and the parties concerned. That document will then be sent to the administration. The Appeals Committee is an active board body, which is kept to laws and secrecy. It is therefore not necessary to obtain permission from the contractors to forward the document to the administration, the Appeals Committee in this case. Forwarding to the Appeals Committee is not a breach of the obligation of confidentiality. If the Appeals Committee had then decided that the convention should be made public, the Minister could still have started proceedings with the Council of State. The transmission of the documents to that committee is not a breach of confidentiality. It just isn't. The committee has said that it cannot judge, but that the documents should be given in principle. They recalled that documents containing environmental information should be shared. That's not what they decided. They said that the requested documents should be made public. Because they could not examine the matter, because the minister did not want to give them. The secrecy of these documents is not broken when they are given to an organ of the administration. Otherwise, all those who sent them to the Economy and Energy FPS should be prosecuted. That's not true! The problem is that they have not been given to this Commission. In the event of disagreement with the Commission's decision, it is possible to go to the Council of State, as provided for by law. That's the way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u131	Mr President, it is true that you announced that he was the last speaker. I would like to respond without controversy to Mr Vande Lanotte. On this point, Mr Vande Lanotte, I am basing myself on the experience I have gained in the Walloon Parliament's arms export licensing committee. There are also major contracts, which are important at the financial level. This question was asked to the services. A legal study was carried out, in particular by Mr Bourtembourg. The conclusion was that the documents were violable if forwarded to the Commission. Therefore, the Arms Export Permits Control Commission cannot know the agreements that have been reached. I just wanted to give that light. It seems to me that your assertion may also call its opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u132	Mr Miller, there is indeed a difference between a parliamentary committee and an administrative committee legally empowered to look at such documentation and decide whether or not to make it public. I would also like to remind you of one thing: the convention was also made available to the committee. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that the Minister did not make that convention available to the Administrative Commission. That, Mr Ducarme, is the incomprehensible thing in this whole affair. Since September, she has prevented that committee from doing its job. Otherwise, there would never have been the decision to make this public in principle, if the Minister had done her job since February. It is that final decision that has convinced us that this deserves a debate. It is also that final decision that has prompted us to say that if the Minister does not do it, we will do it ourselves. I also note that I do not know if it has been recorded, but I do understand that the Minister will start an investigation on the advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u133	That's what she said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u134	It is really problematic that the Minister was not aware of that decision to this day, while it is on the website of the Home Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot prolong the discussion indefinitely. We can give Mr Nollet the floor for a moment, but then we will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u136	Mr President, like Mr Miller, I do not wish to be controversial. I just invite him to make the right difference between arms licensing and all environmental matters. As I tried to explain earlier, in environmental matters, there is an international convention, namely the Aarhus Convention, which gives access to documents, which is not the case for arms licences. I may be wrong, but in my view it is not possible to draw a parallel between what is being done in the area of arms licensing and the environment. That is why the Commission's purpose is specifically concerned with the environment. That is the difference, in my opinion, between the two matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u137	Mr President, I do not want to argue at all. Besides, when I don't scream, I don't argue. It was therefore strictly for informational purposes that I said that a study had been carried out and that it tended to go the opposite way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip052x.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we take the following decision. I agree with what has just been said by Mr Verherstraeten, also in the light of what the Minister has announced. Firstly, the debate on the documents will continue in committee, if that is the case. Secondly, we are abstaining from the Minister's will to publish the documents of the covenant. Of course it goes without saying that we must receive the green light from the parties concerned. This green light may be given tomorrow. I don't know, we'll see. In the meantime, I propose to begin the debate on the second bill on our agenda in a few minutes' time. I have to suspend the meeting for ten minutes. That is what we are doing here. I would like to announce that dinner has been provided for tonight. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 17 June 2015 at 5.20 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 17 June 2015, at 5.20 p.m.
