ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u1	On 9 December 2012, the new station, or platform, was officially opened in Beringen. Together with the bus station, it should become one of the public transport hubs in the wider region. The train traffic that passes in Beringen consists of freight and daily connections between Hasselt, Mol, Antwerp and vice versa. At present, one train passes every hour on weekdays and one train every two hours on weekends and public holidays. A large part of this line has a single track and crosses are done on the part where two tracks are part of the route. In 2008, De Lijn already communicated to provide a train every half hour on the railway line in question. The city government of Beringen also communicated this on several occasions, following the new retail project, called be-MINE. The literal words of the ships are: "Thanks to the Spartacus plan, the frequency is increased to one train per half hour. In the meantime we are February 2015 and about an increase in the number of trains to one per half hour we hear nothing anymore. Have there ever been conversations between De Lijn or the city of Beringen with SNCB about increasing the frequency of train traffic between Antwerp, Mol and Hasselt to a train per half hour? If so, what was decided? If no, are there any calls planned to increase the frequency of the number of trains per hour? Should the rail network between Mol and Hasselt not be fully expanded with a double track in order to ensure a half-hour frequency of a train? In the 2013-2025 multiannual budget of SNCB, have financial resources been made available to build a double track and possibly increase the frequency? How many freight trains per week run on the Hasselt-Mol route and vice versa?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u2	SNCB has no knowledge of talks in the past with the city of Beringen or De Lijn concerning a half hour service on the Hasselt-Mol railway line. No such conversations are planned in the near future. In the light of the new management contract, there will be conversations between SNCB and regional public transport companies and other stakeholders with a view to determining the future supply of trains. Depending on the future transport plan, Infrabel will have to investigate what infrastructure is missing to realize the desired offer. The Council of Ministers of 19 December 2013 adopted an additional budgetary envelope to allow the implementation of regional priorities. The Flemish Region has selected a number of priority projects, one of which relates in particular to a second railway line 15 Balen-Zonhoven. These priority projects, identified and communicated by the three Regions to my predecessor, should be the subject of a socio-economic evaluation on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis, driven by the Mobility and Transport FPS. This evaluation is currently under way. The new budgetary framework decided on by the government only concerns the year 2015. These savings measures have not had an impact on network security. In Flanders it is mainly a question of postponing certain works of innovation of secondary tracks. A full update of the multiannual investment plan 2013-2025 will be achieved in the coming months. According to the scheduled timetable, there are only two freight trains on the Mol-Hasselt section each Tuesday and Thursday and two on the Hasselt-Mol section.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u3	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I can conclude that there have never been any conversations with the city of Beringen. You have said that there is a second line in the list of priorities for the Balen section, and this is indeed the same route I mentioned. We are therefore in happy expectation of the realization.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, the policy statement on Mobility states in point 1.1 that the Federal Government's fleet must be drastically greening in the coming years. For example, when purchasing all new federal service vehicles, it is preferable to opt for electric, hybrid or CNG powered vehicles. Electric and hybrid cars are certainly known by the many advertisements that are made for them. Motor vehicles equipped with CNG, compressed natural gas, are less known. However, they offer many benefits expressed in different percentages according to the source. Compared to conventional fuels, a car emits 12 to 27 % less CO2 and a car emits 95 % less fine particulate matter compared to a diesel car. There is also a reduction in sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide emissions. The price of natural gas is generally around 30% cheaper than diesel. One can quickly refuel, especially in comparison to the charging time for electric cars. The purchase price of such a car is much cheaper than an electric or a hybrid car. Most brands already offer cars on natural gas. The CNG tanks are increasingly built into different models in the car factory itself. The manufacturers themselves are also making a great effort to promote this environmentally friendly option. At the Motor Show you could enjoy a discount of 1 000 euros. Trucks can also drive CNG, just like on LPG or LNG. Currently there are very few gas stations in Belgium that offer CNG. In 2013 there were about 17 and now, two years later, still only 25. In the rest of Europe CNG is offered much more frequently in the service stations. There would be around 800 000 cars running on natural gas in Italy. In Argentina there are even 1.7 million. There are 15 million cars running on natural gas worldwide. Belgium remains hopelessly behind, while this is a very affordable and environmentally friendly alternative. Electric and hybrid cars are almost priceless for ordinary people, and yet we see a lot of subsidies being spent on this. I believe that these subsidies always end up with the wrong people. My questions are as follows. How many federal service vehicles are equipped with CNG or LPG tanks? What measures can or will you take together with the Regions to promote the development of the number of service stations? What additional measures do you consider possible to promote the use of CNG cars by citizens and businesses? Are measures possible to promote, in addition to the use of CNG and LPG, the use of LNG for trucks in companies and public authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u5	In early 2014, the Interdepartmental Commission for Sustainable Development prepared an overview of the federal fleet with the 2013 data. All federal and programmatic public services have responded, with the exception of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs and the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. The survey also excludes the Ministry of Defence and the other federal institutions. The figures show that there are no LPG-powered cars in the federal fleet. Natural gas or CNG was not separately questioned, but it can be assumed that there too the answer is zero. The roll-out of gas stations with LPG and CNG is a regionalised competence. The European Directive on the deployment of an alternative fuel infrastructure requires Member States to develop a national framework for action to develop the market for alternative fuels in the transport sector and to roll out associated infrastructure. It is therefore up to the competent regional authorities to create such a framework for action for our country. Wherever possible, my administration cooperates with the Federal Public Service Economy. Because there is a need for a coherent coordinated approach, I await the proposals that this administrative working group will draw up after consultation with the private sector. As you point out, this government wishes to green the federal government's fleet. The inclusion of this example will also help to increase the awareness of cars on CNG. On the one hand, this can also form part of the framework for action under the European directive, and on the other hand, I will draw up a royal decision to transpose the European regulation. My administration is still planning consultations with the sector and the Regions because it is a shared competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u6	Madam Secretary, I am pleasantly surprised by the royal decision. I have seen that Mr Van Quickenborne had already asked questions about the number of loading posts and the number of cars on electricity. It is sad to note that we do promote electric motor vehicles and motor vehicles on natural gas, but if the government itself does not manage to own one natural gas vehicle and only four vehicles on electricity. Gas-powered motor vehicles are a cheap alternative. In Chile, 1.7 million cars run on natural gas. I do not want to say that Chile is a poor country, but compared to Belgium, I think that the standard here is much higher. I insist that electric cars are not affordable for the common man. A small electric car will soon cost 35 000 euros. A little promotion and the necessary facilities in service stations via the Länder can help. A car normally costing EUR 15 000 costs EUR 17 000 or EUR 18 000 with natural gas, which is affordable for ordinary people. I hope you will take that into account in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u7	Mr Janssen, the loading posts are a matter for the Regions. Some car brands themselves install their terminals in certain parts of Belgium. Unfortunately, I cannot quote them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u8	We should ask for the in camera!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u9	Madam President, Minister, over the past few weeks, we have heard a lot about the SNCB Health Care Fund (HCC). Some in the majority see it as a symbol; a fine example of the savings that could be achieved within the SNCB. Beyond the fact that the CSS is an integral part of the railway company's status and that it is included in collective labour agreements; beyond its social usefulness and the quality of its services which are in no way called into question, it must therefore be judged on the basis of the quality of its management. Some therefore feel that it would be mismanaged and would be a waste. In 2012, the administrative costs of the CSS amounted to 17 687 000 euros. Benefits amounted to 382 117 000 euros. The administrative cost-to-benefit ratio is therefore 4.6%, while the OECD estimates that the average of European countries such as France, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands is 5.2%. It should be noted that Germany, although widely cited as an example by many members of the majority, has a ratio of 6.5%. We can therefore widely consider that the administrative management of the CSS is sound and that it is not the financial abyss that some people like to describe. What should reassure you, unless it is the status of the railway operator that is being targeted. Minister, can you reassure the railwaymen about the future of the Health Care Fund. I hope so anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u10	Mrs Grovonius, the question of the abolition of the Railway Health Care Fund is not on the agenda. If one day the subject became topical, it would be largely agreed with the trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u11	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which is clear and which is indeed reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u12	Madam President, Minister, my question is in line with what we have just discussed. According to the media, 21 alcohol locks were installed. In the Netherlands about four thousand have been introduced. It is a larger country, but if we look at the ratio, the question arises as to whether the alcohol lock in vehicles has had its effect. When a convict gets an alcohol lock in our country, he still has to agree to its installation in his vehicle. Madam Secretary, can you confirm these disappointing figures to me? If so, are you considering amending the legislation so that an alcohol lock would be required in certain cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u13	Madam Minister, the law that introduced the alcohol lock in our country has been in force since October 2010. That's over four years. The judge has the opportunity to impose an alcohol lock on a car driver who was in a state of intoxication at the wheel or in a state of drunkenness. I have already asked several parliamentary questions about this. The answer to my written question that I was allowed to receive from you in the month of December 2014 shows that the BIVV was the only recognised framework institution that had accompanied or accompanied ten people until then, who had been sentenced to an alcohol lock. The VRT unpacked on February 9th with another number. According to them, an alcohol lock was imposed on 21 drivers four years ago since its entry into force. For flapping that alcohol lock several causes are mentioned. Firstly, there is the lack of enthusiasm among judges to impose an alcohol lock. They prefer to impose a driving ban. Secondly, there are a number of practical problems with the implementation of the law, in particular with regard to the approval of appliances and the recognition of frames and service centres which may install the alcohol lock and so on. The third problem is the high cost. That could also be a threshold. The fourth problem has already been mentioned by my colleague, namely the agreement of the condemned person who is needed for the installation. Finally, there is also a letter from the College of Attorneys General of June 2012, which states that the prosecutors should not only inform the convicted persons about the verdict, but also that they should have a notification sent to the FPS Mobility and to the municipalities. A response from your predecessor two years ago showed that the FPS had never received such notification. I would therefore like to ask you today, Madam Secretary. Can you shed some light on the numbers? Is it about ten people who have already been escorted by the BIVV or are there 21, as mentioned in the media? How many people decided not to drive during the period of limited validity of the driving licence, so that they did not have to follow the framework programme? What do you think are the main causes of the lack of application of the law? Do you have any plans to change the procedure? If so, in what sense? In the meantime, did the FPS Mobility already receive the mentioned notifications? If so, how many? If not, what do you think are the causes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u14	In the meantime, 21 people have applied to the BIVV for a framework programme because they were sentenced to use an alcohol lock. Two of these 21 framework programmes have already been completed. Four programmes are still running and four will start in the short term. One application happened a long time ago, but was never started. In practice, the alcohol lock facility indeed presupposes the consent of the offender, because he can easily avoid installing an alcohol lock in the vehicle by deciding not to drive during the sentence period. Moreover, the offender must be prepared to bear the high costs of installing and renting the alcohol lock and the accompanying programme, which amounts to EUR 3 000 per year. This guidance programme is absolutely necessary in order for this measure to succeed. The low success of the alcohol lock is due to the relatively poor cost-benefit analysis of an alcohol lock from the point of view of the individual offender. For comparison, an administrative system has been chosen in the Netherlands. From 1.3 promille the offender is automatically imposed an alcohol lock for two years. If he doesn't accept the alcohol lock, there's a five-year driving ban. This should really encourage the offender to opt for the installation of an alcohol lock. The result is that about four thousand alcohol slots have been installed in the Netherlands, but also about four thousand people have a driving ban of five years, mainly because they cannot afford an alcohol lock. At the moment, we can indeed think of an automatic decline in the right to steer for a longer period of time, unless one chooses to install an alcohol lock for a less long period of time. We must therefore consider whether we should also go in the direction of a Dutch solution in the event of a high blood alcohol level or in the event of a relapse. I'll have this investigated with the Justice Department. Finally, I would also like to point out that we must look at the preventive effects of an alcohol lock. Consideration should be given, for example, to the introduction of an alcohol lock for the transport of persons, particularly in the case of the transport of school children, as is already the case in France. As far as passenger transport is concerned, we must, as far as possible, rule out the risk of alcohol abuse by installing an alcohol lock. The FPS Mobility was not allowed to receive an answer from the public prosecutors until now. This was requested by the Justice Department. The application of the alcohol lock in my municipality is an example in that area. It is the only Belgian municipality with an alcohol lock on the buses for passenger transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u15	Madam Secretary, you are referring to the situation in the Netherlands. There one prefers an alcohol lock for two years, but anyone who is unable to do so financially still opts for a five-year driving ban. I think that is a poignant discussion. This means that people who are not financially comfortable cannot make the right choice. I hope that we can offer a cheaper solution. It's a rent anyway. An alcohol lock is still for the benefit of society. Hopefully, the cost of EUR 3 000 per year can be reduced. We must follow this trend towards an obligation. Do you intend to take a legislative initiative on this subject after the Justice response?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for clarifying the figures. As far as the practical problems are concerned, you mentioned the high cost, which is a breaking point for some people. You mentioned EUR 3 000 per year for an alcohol lock, and that is not feasible for some. In my view, only the BIVV has now been recognised as a framework institution. Someone from my region, for example, the Westhoek, who is convicted, can only go to Brussels to follow that programme. This distance is also an obstacle for often weaker people. Perhaps consideration should be given to providing other places for the installation of such an institution for guidance. Finally, as far as your comparison with the Netherlands, France and your municipality is concerned, these are indeed interesting slopes to think about. We may all agree that we should be able to evaluate and make improvements to an approved legislation which turns out to be empty after four years. All noses must go in the same direction and we must consider how we can improve the system, with the aim of improving road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u17	Madam President, Madam Minister, last year, at the same time, the NAVETTEURS.BE Travellers Association had presented to SNCB Stations management the results of its cadastre of stop points not kept in Wallonia (the so-called PANG in railway dialect). This cadastre was the result of almost a year of work by this association of train users who travelled through the 191 PANGs in Wallonia in order to identify the deficiencies and defections of these rail stops by means of an analysis grid incorporating criteria such as accessibility, information, parking possibilities, frequencies and connections, possibilities of connection with buses or even attendance. In fact, of the 191 PANGs identified, 19 had been considered the worst stops, offering little security and comfort; they are located in the vicinity of the city of Charleroi. At that meeting, commitments had been made on various plans of action and analysis. First, within a month, these 19 Wallonia PANGs would be cleared as a matter of priority and solutions would be sought to avoid the recurrence of degradation. Similarly, contacts would be made with local authorities to stem the reported incivilities. Secondly, in the medium term, possibilities would be analysed for rehabilitating the full range of PANGs which require partial or less urgent renovation. Minister, could you provide us with a status report on the implementation of these commitments? Where exactly are these 19 Wallonia PANGs in need of urgent and comprehensive measures? Has the priority reassignment of these 19 judgments been achieved? What was the budget allocated to it? Is this a specific budget for the renovation of these stops or are these general "renovation" budgets specific to large stations? What about the other less priority PANGs in Wallonia? Is the same census work envisaged for stops in the Brussels and Flemish regions? Should not a comprehensive reassignment policy be considered for all rail stops in the country with appropriate means? Finally, have contacts been made with the various municipalities to start a reflection on this issue? If so, what solutions have been found?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Winckel, the 19 unguarded stops in Wallonia identified by the NAVETTEURS Travellers Association.BE were Amay, Ampsin, Bressoux, Engis, Gloss, Grupont, Habay, Liège-Jonfosse, Acren, Bracquegnies, Charleroi-Ouest, Couillet, Erquelinnes, Erquelinnes-Village, Farciennes, Frameries, Froyennes, Ham-sur-Heure, Marchienne-Zone. As committed by SNCB, these were upgraded within 100 days. The budget for a specific PANG account dedicated to this work amounts to more or less EUR 110 000. Further work has been undertaken for the renovation of the PANGs. Approximately 350 interventions took place. The work is essentially maintenance work. Additional more specific work has also been undertaken in Bressoux, Landelies, Forchies, Genly, Jemappes and Hénin. The municipalities have been made aware of the problem of PANG and specific contacts have been established. With regard to the implementation of the work in the PANGs under the responsibility of the municipalities, some have been carried out but others have not been carried out. However, it is very difficult to keep the state of a PANG at a correct level with regard to acts of vandalism. To remedy some of the elements of this phenomenon, the principle of systematic repainting has been put in place in some places, but there are significant costs involved. SNCB is very devoid of the problem of the lack of respect of certain people and, in July 2014, SNCB created a division which has the responsibility for the specific management of PANGs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. As I understand it, the 19 PANGs concerned have been renovated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u20	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u21	You know that this is important, especially in the Walloon Region. As regards the Brussels and Flemish regions, has the inventory of these PANGs, sometimes in a disastrous state, also been carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u22	I'll ask SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u23	I'll come back and ask you that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u24	If the Minister has received a response, she will forward it to the secretariat who will transfer it to Ms. Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, we have already met on Monday with several Namibian actors in the context of Axud with regard to a whole series of Namibian issues. Among these, we are particularly concerned about the international status of the Namur railway station. In this context, I will speak today of a specific dossier which has been mentioned several times in the press in recent days: the question of Thalys Wallon. I have already asked questions about this in December. The president has already questioned you on this line in January. We fear the removal of this line on the Walloon dorsal. You had told us that there were questions, search for alternatives since we know that in any case there will be a momentary closure of this line because of the security work that is under way. On Monday, during our interview, I confess that I was not very reassured by the elements of the answer that you provided to us. I therefore come back today with this question in order to know whether or not there is a real will to maintain this line after the momentary closure linked to the work in progress. If you want to close this line, what is the schedule? During the closure period, at this stage, which is supposed to be limited in time, are alternatives foreseen? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the wake of Mrs Grovonius, I wanted to ask you about the Thalys Paris-Ostende lines, on the one hand, and Paris-Liège, on the other. Recently, you announced that you wanted to propose at the February 13 government meeting that these two Thalys lines should be removed outright. If I understood correctly, this Council of Ministers had to be electronic. Yet, as I understand it, this decision now seems to be postponed to the government meeting on February 27, this Friday. Thalys towards Ostend appears to give a filling rate of about 10%, which is low. But the situation on the Walloon dorsal is not so obvious: the filling rate would be around 50% and the saving of time would be more important than conventional traffic. Could you indicate the average cost per passenger on these two routes? What are the criteria that will determine whether these services will continue or be discontinued? Furthermore, as Mr Cornu had pointed out at his recent hearing, SNCB is planning a savings of 7 million if there is to be the abolition of both routes. But, more specifically, can you distinguish between us their respective costs? Finally, as Mr Cornu recalled in committee, these links are included in the current management contract between the Federal State and SNCB. I am talking about the current management contract, but it has to be formally completed and should be renewed for some time. How do you intend in practice to translate into law the possible – I insist – government decision on these deletions that could be taken at the next Council of Ministers on Friday, 27 February?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u27	The maintenance or development of Thalys services is the responsibility of the new company THI Factory, which operates in a liberalised environment and therefore in a logic of profitability. Any request by the Belgian State to SNCB to provide deficit services would therefore have to be compensated by SNCB to that company. The operating income of the dorsals does not cover all the expenses, which is why SNCB is required to cover Thalys' losses for the service of these two dorsals. In 2014, the average loss per passenger travelling through the Walloon dorsal amounted to EUR 39.20, totalling EUR 5,347 million. With regard to the Flemish dorsal, it was EUR 50.50, a total of EUR 2.766 million. For the Walloon dorsal, the costs are higher since, given the specific nature of this service since it departs from Paris, all costs – including in French territory – are charged. On the other hand, for the Flemish dorsal, the calculation is limited to the Brussels-Ostende section, since this is the extension of a Paris-Brussels commercial relationship. Mr Cheron, the Council of e-Ministers did not take place, since it was the first day of the holidays. The subject will be discussed in the Kern on Friday and not in the Council of Ministers. As far as your last question is concerned, this matter still needs to be decided within the government. In view of the very low attendance on the two dorsals, the possible costs of alternatives and the next modernisation plan aimed in particular at focusing on essential tasks in order to ensure a quality public service, the management contract could be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which unfortunately does not reassure me at all. If I hear correctly, there is a willingness to focus missions on what makes money or, at least, what does not cost it. I continue to consider the services provided by SNCB to be public. Their goal is not to be profitable, but to provide a service to the public. I did not hear what your proposal to Kern would be about this case. According to the implication in your answer, I understand that the proposal will indeed be to put an end to this relationship on the Walloon dorsal. I very much regret that. I believe that on the side of the PS and the elected members of the Namibian Parliament, this news will not be welcomed with open arms and in a very positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u29	Mrs Grovonius, I didn't say anything like that. As far as I know, you're not a minister. There are bodies called the Kern and the Council of Ministers where decisions are taken. I would like to come back to you as soon as the decision is taken by the Kern or the Council of Ministers. Let the bodies for this purpose take the decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u30	Minister, I have not even understood what your proposal would be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u31	Minister, I would like to point out that the replies are made by parliamentarians. I imagine that, as the decision is not yet taken, there will be questions about it next week. I give the floor to Mr Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, I understand that there is an electronic Council of Ministers scheduled for February 13. It didn't happen. I take note that this February 27th will be a Kern. This is not in the Constitution. But I know that it is an informal body bringing together the most important ministers often to the detriment of others. So, a priori, there is no discussion in the Council of Ministers on this issue. I have heard of the distribution of the costs borne by the SNCB and offset by the budget allocated by the Federal State: 5.3 million on the one hand and 2.7 on the other. But I still haven't understood the articulation with the management contract. The management contract is still under way. I'd like to go back to her joint. If a decision were to be taken by the Council of Ministers, e.g. to delete one or both lines, what would be the link between this decision and the link it creates with the SNCB and, through the allocations, all the links that are planned, without the possibility of modifying the management contract? Otherwise, it would mean amending part of the current management contract. These are the questions that have not received a complete answer. I don't doubt we'll ever make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u33	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the continued commitment of SNCB and the implementation of various measures, it is regrettable to note that vandalism against its trains is slightly on the rise for the first half of 2014, according to news published in various newspapers. This semi-annual review shows an 18% increase in acts of vandalism, all categories combined, as well as a 29% higher stone-throwing rate than in 2013. In addition, tags and other graffiti are also on the rise. The flights of small safety hammers on trains are constantly decreasing. The increase in these acts of vandalism is nevertheless to be relativized, since this balance sheet for the first half of 2014 is twice as much (-48.7 %) as the record of 244 facts recorded by SNCB during the same period in 2010, according to the information published. In this context, here are my questions. Are the full figures for 2014 already available? Do you have any information about the causes of this sudden upsurge in vandalism? It would be interesting to be able to visualize the so-called "at-risk" areas for tags and/or vandalism. Do you think you can draw up a map that would allow you to have a visual work medium in this topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you the tables showing the available data on acts of malice committed between 2009 and 2014 against rolling stock. The decrease in the number of acts of vandalism committed on rolling stock between 2009 and 2014 can be explained, on the one hand, by a targeted approach to these phenomena by the SNCB Securail security service and, on the other hand, by better local collaboration with the police services, which are aware of the criminal phenomena that the SNCB is confronted with. Stone throws on the trains went up again (+ 12% between 2013 and 2014). In 2014, however, there was a slight decrease of 1% in the total number of damage to rolling stock. The increase in the number of graffiti is mainly due to the introduction of Desiro trains, a new equipment that is an ideal target for the tabgers, on the entire railway network. The decline in the number of rescue hammer thefts is less easily explained. Such a decline could, however, be explained – but this remains to be verified – by an increased presence of Securail security officers, especially on at-risk trains. Furthermore, it is clear that the repressive aspect, namely the systematic preparation of a report against known criminals, has a deterrent effect. Overall, it can be established that the attention given by the media and the campaigns put in place have also contributed to reducing the number of harms. Hotspots relating to graffiti and vandalism on rolling stock are identified and fully correspond, taking into account the nature of these criminal acts, to the existing passenger bundles spread throughout the territory and, most of the time, located at and around railway nodes. The approach to this problem therefore focuses on better protection of the beams reserved for passenger equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u36	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you are aware of the Dutch petition which has collected ten thousand signatures to offer passenger transport again between Hamant and the Dutch Weert. The Netherlands has been asking for a longer period of time for the extension of the existing link Antwerp-Hamont to Weert. In reply to a previous oral question, you replied that a 2007 analysis shows that the demand for passenger transport on the route towards Weert is rather limited. However, two recent Dutch studies claim the opposite. The 2011 Movares study refers to 450 passengers per day and a cost recovery rate of 47%. A 2014 need study by the Dutch province of Limburg even cites the figure of 1200 commuters per day. Moreover, the extension of the rail link would require a relatively low investment of EUR 8 million. Do SNCB and Infrabel subscribe to the conclusions of the Dutch study? Why is that, or why not? The extension of railway line 19 to Weert was already promised in 2009 by SNCB, as part of the railway plan for North Limburg. You know I'm very interested in that. SNCB now claims that there would be insufficient passenger potential for this connection. How did the transport company come to this changed position? Since the SNCB 2007 study, the context has changed somewhat. The Antwerp-Neerpelt link was now extended to Hamant and according to the Movares study the extension to Weert could be carried out almost cost-neutrally with an estimated cost recovery rate of 91 %. Does SNCB have plans to carry out a new study taking into account the changed situation and will you encourage SNCB to do so? Finally, I assume that you are also in favour of demand-driven investments, namely investments in places where there is real demand and where the expected cost recovery rate is sufficiently high. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u37	The reactivation of the section Neerpelt-Weert in the province of Nederlands Limburg for passenger traffic has been put on the agenda several times in a recent past. SNCB informs me that in 2005 it carried out a study on the reactivation of the job course Neerpelt-Weert in the framework of its management contract. The conclusion was that the additional revenue did not cover the additional operating costs. The contacts with the Dutch Railways showed that they were not interested in reopening the section Neerpelt-Weert for passenger traffic and that no commercial agreement could be reached between SNCB and the NS. The operation should therefore be carried out entirely by SNCB. The organisation of travel between Hamont and Weert certainly requires an adjustment of the infrastructure. I will continue my contact with my Dutch colleague and I have already discussed this with my colleague in The Hague on 13 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u38	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you understand the need for the connection and have already established contacts in this context. You do refer to studies from a while ago, which are somewhat dated. I would like to refer once again to the recent studies. If one rail link meets the demand-driven supply with a relatively low investment, that is this project to which we must give priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u39	Madam President, Minister, in the spring of 2014, the Brussels Region brought an environmental cessation action to stop the noise pollution suffered by hundreds of thousands of people following the implementation of the Wathelet Plan. On 31 July 2014, the Brussels Court of First Instance requested that the Wathelet plan be stopped with a three-month deadline for compliance on penalty of a penalty payment of EUR 50 000 per day capped at EUR 36 million. However, it was not until you arrived, Madam Minister, in October, to see the plan in question suspended, a return to the old situation and a commitment from Belgocontrol to put in place a new plan for April 2, 2015, well before the thirty weeks deemed necessary to put in place a safe alternative plan. Ms Frémault, Minister cdH, responsible for the Brussels Region for the environment, then stated that she would do nothing to prevent the Brussels Region from asking for periodic payments, a means of pressure on the federal government. It would probably have been happier to see her exert pressure on Ms. Fonck herself, CDH, who was in your same position on August 1, 2014, for her to take immediate action, which would have saved the process three months. Ms Frémault indicated that she had not received any response to her requests "to create an independent supervisory authority – including regional representatives –, to define objective and transparent aeronautical procedures, to introduce a tonnage limit for aeroplanes authorised to fly over Brussels territory, to change airport schedules to extend the night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. and to conclude an agreement on the gradual termination of night flights in a European context". However, while contravening somewhat, Mrs Frémault pointed to the creation of a consultation group on the Brussels-Capital/Federal region, which would lead to a structural situation so much desired by the Brussels people. Minister, can you inform us about the status of Belgocontrol's new plan for April 2, 2015? Can you inform us about the impact of the work undertaken in Zaventem on the use of the airport runways? Can you finally explain to us what action will be taken on the request for periodic penalty payments issued by the Brussels government? Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for your active follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u40	Madam Chair, Mr.Flahaux, pursuant to the Government Agreement, on October 23, 2014, I directed that the court order of July 31 be enforced. This means returning to the situation before February 6, 2014. The moratorium will therefore take place on 2 April 2015. During the period of work, traffic will be ensured on the remaining runways. With regard to the use of the tracks, it is still being developed by Belgocontrol, but I will not fail to inform you as soon as possible. I would like to reiterate that I am working in transparency and that on this specific issue, the airport and I wish to inform all parties concerned as fully as possible. Finally, in answer to your last question, the Belgian State opposed the periodic penalty payments to the seizing judge, since, as I said, I carried out the order of 31 July 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. In fact, I pointed out that, unlike your predecessor, you have been active in the evolution of this file. We would have saved a lot of time if your predecessor had acted the way you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u42	Madam President, Minister, a few days ago, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities (NSHRC) considered that the linear application of the 'Tariff on Bord' on 1 February does not comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities or the Anti-Discrimination Act of 10 May 2007. In its opinion, the CSNPH requested that persons with disabilities for whom alternatives are not sufficiently accessible be able to obtain a ticket on the train without paying a surcharge. The solution envisaged would be, for example, the granting of a special card authorizing the holder to pay the ticket fee on board the train. What do you think? What, according to your information, is the position of SNCB on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u43	My colleague, the SNCB believes that it is in compliance with the obligations arising from the United Nations Convention because of the many reasonable accommodations and the assistance service set up to enable people with reduced mobility to access transport. It shall work to avoid any form of discrimination, in particular against persons with disabilities, in accordance with the relevant national and European legislation. During the consultation between CSNPH and SNCB, SNCB explained that the new automatons are easy to use. They are equipped with a support service which the customer can contact in case of a problem and which will guide him in the purchase of his ticket until the time of payment. This additional service can be used as many times as necessary. The possible granting of a special card authorizing the holder to pay the ticket fee on board the train was examined at this meeting. SNCB is required to comply with the existing management contract. Currently, the discount card in public transport for blind and visually impaired persons and the free card for an escort are the only discount cards. SNCB is prepared to analyse the possibility of accepting a new card issued by the Social Security FPS, which would be included in the new management contract. Indeed, SNCB cannot issue on its own initiative a physical or mental disability recognition card that would qualify for a reduction. A disability, whatever it may be, cannot under any circumstances be the subject of an arbitrary and subjective assessment of the staff of SNCB. With a view to administrative simplification, and in order to find a solution to the problem more quickly, I would like the SNCB to examine the possibility of using existing cards, in particular those issued by the Social Security FPS. These could possibly be used to exempt cardholders from paying the 'Tariff on board' surcharge. The feasibility of this measure will need to be addressed in the ongoing discussions on the rules applicable to the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u44	Minister, I have heard that the consultation took place with the CSNPH. I even thought I could detect a number of very interesting advances. I have noted a few points for the future management contract. The latter is a fundamental element in which we will include a number of obligations that we wish and which the federal state wishes to indicate. I have taken note of your openness to a situation that could evolve even before the reform of the management contract, if I have understood correctly, taking into account the arrangements that already exist through the recognition of the concept of disability, with a card that would be linked to it. I hope that the consultation with the CSNPH will lead to concrete progress for the people concerned, including in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Cornu spoke to this committee at its recent hearing on the SNCB's new transport plan that the issue of rolling stock breakdowns and maintenance was a significant cause of the problems of SNCB and commuters. He cited this very large 23 per cent impact due to the lack of available rolling stock and the fact that these equipment deficits accounted for 30 per cent of delays in the issues of punctuality and results for commuters. He had said in particular – this had not escaped your attention, nor that of the parliamentarians – that, for example, in the famous contract of the previous century, the one which covered the 305 Desiro motor cars, i.e. 1.4 billion euros and 85,000 seats, Siemens worked on office hours, implying that the problems that arise outside of office hours or on weekends were not solved. It is rather hot to note that, according to the press that has echoed it in recent days, the same firm, Siemens, seems to attack the new contract of the century in the Council of State. This contract was concluded with Alstom-Bombardier for 3 billion euros and a target of 145,000 seats with double floor cars, the famous M7 cars. If that is true, one may wonder about the ability to meet the deadlines. I recall that the deadlines for this very important contract (3 billion) were from 2017 to 2025, since the target was the IPP from 2017. Madam Minister, we therefore have the right to ask you about the deadline. Yes or no, is there a danger of delaying concrete implementation for rail commuters of the arrival of this new rolling stock? It is known that the delay in the delivery of these new trains would cause a serious handicap in the company's management's desire to improve the quality of service in terms of rail supply, as this new rolling stock was intended to enable the railway carrier to improve its offer, especially to replace old trains – I am referred to as trains dating back to the other century – and to provide additional seating for customers, which is on the increase. Minister, will the recurrent savings projected by this current government, which will have an impact on the financing of SNCB, have an influence on the investments and therefore on this very special contract of €3 billion? Finally, we learn not only that there is a delay but also that the specifications are still being drafted. Mr Cornu tells us that the firm with which he entered into a contract for the Desiro does not work outside of office hours. Will it be foreseen in the specifications that this rolling stock can be maintained and repaired at all times that are made available to SNCB customers? This is a very important element since we are still in the drafting of the specifications. These questions are relatively specific for a case that is strategic for the future of rail in this country, given the quantitative importance of the file, which is 3 billion, but also qualitative, namely the seating positions, commuters and the quality of the transport plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u46	Madam Secretary, on 6 February, the Council of State suspended the award of a contract by Infrabel to the French group Alstom. The procedure was initiated by Siemens in Germany. It is the second time in a short time that the Council of State suspends the award of a contract by Infrabel. At the end of December 2014, this also happened with a contract between Infrabel and Siemens. I asked an oral question on this earlier. In the Committee of 21 January, you explained the vision of Infrabel. However, I am particularly interested in your attitude and your policy. How do you intend to avoid a repetition of such procedures and delays in the future? Are you counting on the insights of Infrabel itself or do you want to take action on the substance, for example by adjusting the procurement and selection procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u47	Madam President, Minister, we are learning of the postponement of the delivery of double-deck cars that should have brought 145,000 new seats, thus relieving users who can no longer travel under the least difficult conditions. I think you know that. Of course, Siemens appealed to the Conseil d'État to challenge SNCB's decision on the award of the contract. What worries us above all is to learn that the specifications have not yet been finalized, de facto delaying the delivery of the equipment to the Greek calends. It is therefore clear that the next transport plan in 2017 will be impacted by this very bad news. Minister, what is the exact status of the drafting of the specification and when will it be finalized? When will users expect these new cars to arrive on the network and at what rate? What are the clear solutions envisaged to deal with this announced delay and to improve the travel conditions of users? What will be the impact on the 2017 transport plan? As you can imagine, I will be very attentive to your comprehensive response, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u48	In principle, maintenance operations are performed by SNCB except for vehicles still under warranty for which it is the manufacturer's responsibility to provide corrective maintenance following equipment failure. As far as your specific question is concerned, I can already reassure you that the specifications provide for the following clauses. The presence of an after-sales service team must be foreseen during the opening hours in each workshop concerned, outside these hours the team can be contacted by simple telephone call and intervene within the maximum two hours. The exact addresses and hours of delivery of the workshops will be communicated when the workshops are designated. The successful tenderer takes into account that the maintenance workshops are currently working under the following scheme: on weekdays two day and night service teams. On Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, a day service team. These plans are however adapted between the signing of the contract and at the latest the final acceptance of the last car of the first order in the following way: on week 3 service teams early, late and night, on Saturday, Sunday and feries days, 2 service teams of days and night. In addition, certain penalties are provided to encourage the manufacturer to meet the objectives in terms of reliability and availability of vehicles, i.e. penalty for prolonged vehicle immobilization, penalty for insufficient availability of cars and penalty for lack of reliability of vehicles. I do not intend to make specific changes to the procurement and selection procedures. The management and administration of procurement and selection procedures are the responsibility of Infrabel. The specification is in its final phase. The delivery of M7 cars is expected to take place over the period 2019-2025, provided that SNCB is able to award the contract before the end of the year. The primary objective of SNCB is and remains to provide the best customer service. If the delivery of M7 cars were to be delayed, SNCB would take all necessary measures to provide the service in the best possible conditions. In this case, SNCB may, among other things, consider retaining the equipment to be replaced by new equipment, as well as adapting the allocation of the equipment. In preparing the new transport plan for 2017, the delivery schedule for these new cars will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u49	Madam President, Minister, thank you. I hope I understood correctly, but my surprise was such that I didn't get the end right: you spoke well from 2019 to 2025, if the contract actually ends by the end of the year following the specifications? So it's not 2017-2025? We started to understand 2017, it's not even 2018, the year that follows logically 2017, but it will be 2019. You're giving us pretty bad news. In addition, this deadline will depend on the fact that the specifications and the whole process are well closed this year 2015. Otherwise, the postponement will not be 2019, but probably 2020 or 2021. We feel a bit like a RER process, if you follow me; before, the expression referred to "the Echternach procession". We swim there in trouble. Given that this order was considered to be a fundamental issue in SNCB's rail offer, both quantitative and qualitative, this decision is not such as to reassure the implementation of an efficient transport plan, regardless of its legal or other reasons. Mr. Cornu himself explained, however, that more than 30% of the problems were related to rolling stock and its non-renewal. I would remind you that at SNCB some cars are still in circulation when they date back to the previous century. Sorry to bother you with the dates and figures, but I am very worried, even more now, about the actual implementation of this new contract so strategic for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u50	Madam Secretary, I note that you are fully following Infrabel's vision. However, according to your answer, the delay is increasing and that does not really benefit a good service. Infrabel's position is a little too easy for me. The debt is entirely borne by the companies concerned. We are talking about the derailment of a system aimed at guaranteeing free market competition. Surely we cannot ignore the fact that both companies got right from the Council of State? The petition must therefore have been properly filed. I therefore believe that it should be an option to review the procurement and selection procedures and to enter into the debate with Infrabel to see what is possible, because the current situation does not lead to a good service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u51	Madam Minister, at the beginning of your answer, you said, "When we call, they'll come and fix it." I sincerely welcome that. On the other hand, I am concerned about the follow-up, because it is very bad news. We are not happy about what is happening today. And I don't think you, Madam Minister, can be happy either. We hoped that from 2017, the transport plan and the conditions of transport could change. Today, we have just lost our illusions. You postpone all this to 2019-2025. Mr Cheron, it's not even 2019! We will see how this will evolve. You explained to us that this would be taken into consideration on condition that the text be tabled this year. I am counting on you, Minister, to ensure that this project is completed as quickly as possible. Indeed, we need these new investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u52	I would just like to point out that, as a minister, I cannot intervene in ongoing proceedings. Secondly, I would remind Mr Devin that on 18 July I had not yet taken up my duties. Let's say again that I blame my predecessors. A draft specification was submitted to the Board of Directors of SNCB prior to approval, but was withdrawn due to negotiations and possible appeals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u53	Madam Minister, when I first spoke, I said that you would often say that this is the fault of the past. And you're right... until you're on duty. I see your collaborator is all smiling. Very sincerely, yes, that's very bad news. Yeah, we have to be able to count on you for this file to move forward. Finally, yes, commuters really need it. It's not betraying the truth to say it. Someone once said, "We don't work the future by looking in a mirror." This man is Didier Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u54	Madam President, Minister, combined and distributed rail freight is of great importance to the companies and ports in Flanders and to the economy of the country as a whole. That is why the federal government supports this transport by means of subsidies. The federal government agreement and your own policy paper state that the promotion of rail freight transport is essential and must therefore be preserved. Has a decision already been taken on rail freight subsidies for the coming years? When will you determine that subsidy? What amount do you provide for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u55	Madam President, in accordance with the coalition agreement, my services are examining ways of promoting the distribution and combined transport. The system, the period and the amounts are part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, I actually got a bit of a meaningless answer. However, a good freight transport regime is very important for potential investors and also for current companies. In view of its importance and the lack of initiative, I will consider for myself the extent to which initiatives can be taken from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u57	Question No 2297 by Mr Olivier Maingain is postponed. I would like to inform you that the Minister will leave at 5:00 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u58	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the beginning of 2014, Jo Cornu announced his willingness to equip Belgian trains with a wireless internet connection. Last December, you yourself came back to the subject by announcing the implementation of a pilot project to provide wireless Internet access on trains, starting this year. Of course, we can only abound in this sense, Internet access is indeed a service that SNCB must take care to provide to its customers/users, both at its stations and on its trains. This is one of the aspects of comfort that is becoming increasingly popular, and this is in line with the current trend of relocation of the workplace and the splitting of working time. Today, the user wants to make the most of his time, especially the time he spends on a railway station or train. Jo Cornu is therefore right when he argues that there is a need to provide added value to passengers and that stations must also become work and meeting spaces. I will illustrate it by the Business Centres which have just opened in several stations in the country. If I encourage the move, it is because I think that this additional service that would be offered to travellers by SNCB would bring more to the mobility offer and could convince more people to travel by train. However, many questions remain and I wonder about the following points. Two technologies exist to provide wireless network in trains, wifi or enhanced 3G and 4G coverage. Are both under study? Can you tell us more about their respective advantages and disadvantages? Does one of them have the favour of SNCB today? As far as the telephone network is concerned, we often hear that the structure of the new cars is a barrier to the gsm signal: is that true? If so, what solutions would it be possible to avoid this problem so that SNCB users can connect effectively and continuously to the network they use anywhere else, including via 3G and 4G for data transfer? There was also a question of contacts with the various operators to understand the needs of the sector: what does this mean? In the meantime, have there been any contacts with manufacturers to explore the different possibilities and their technical feasibility? The introduction of more effective Internet access will inevitably require work. Has the cost and time frame already been quantified? Will this result in an increase in the price of the ticket or the unavailability of certain trains during the planning period? In France, SNCF seems to have a clear ambition to offer this service to its users in the near future and has just announced two projects to improve access to the wireless network on its trains. As a first step, an agreement was reached with ARCEP (the equivalent of the IBPT in France) which aims to combine their efforts to provide better access for passengers to mobile networks on trains. Next, SNCF is committed to providing a free Wi-Fi network at railway stations and evokes an investment of 150 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u59	Madam President, Minister, access to the Internet on the train is today a very annoying issue for many commuters and train users who want to work on their way to work or want to be connected to the outside world. In theory, access to the Internet is possible via mobile phones and smartphones, via 3G or 4G in certain regions. However, we note that the connections are very bad. The connection to the Internet is one thing, sometimes even it is difficult to call from the train. A train is of course a large steel cage, which often does not benefit the signal strength. For the summer, SNCB will start a pilot project for wireless internet on the train, as we read in the newspaper. We welcome that project, of course, and we hope that the final roll-out of a system of wireless Wi-Fi for rail passengers will also be possible in the near future. Madam Minister, on what routes will this pilot project be carried out? If the pilot project is systematically extended, what is the timing for the different routes? Will a free wireless Internet connection be available to travellers during that pilot project? I assume this will be made possible on those lines. If the pilot project is evaluated positively, what is your view on a possible supplement? Will a surcharge be charged? Will the customers have to pay more? If you ask me personally, I don't think so, because that's part of the normal comfort on the train when I look at examples abroad. If the pilot project is evaluated positively, by when is the roll-out planned? Do you intend, as far as possible, to equip all trains with a wireless connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u60	Madam President, SNCB will conduct an evaluation of both technologies as part of the pilot project. The specifications for this purpose are currently being drafted and will be placed on the market in the near future. The pure and simple repeater solution seems to be the simplest and most cost-effective technology, as it will bring 3G and 4G signals into the train bypassing the Faraday cage and amplify them. We expect Wi-Fi technology to provide us with a more open communication platform. All terminal devices that support wifi can be used. SNCB may also potentially target this communication platform for other internal applications: real-time passenger information, real-time central monitoring of rolling stock, etc. The objective of the pilot project is precisely to assess the performance and economic feasibility of the two technologies. It is true that the metal structure of the carriages constitutes a barrier to the penetration of radio signals. This applies to all trains. To avoid this problem, it will be necessary in any scenario to install one or more outdoor antennas to bring the signals into the train. The focus of the pilot project will focus on the use of the Internet. For this pilot project, SNCB is in contact with mobile operators as well as integrators who have experience of such projects abroad. These parties will be able to make a concrete proposal for the scope of the pilot project. In addition, discussions are planned with BIPT to better understand the needs of the sector and to discuss possible solutions for this. These aspects should be further clarified during the business case currently under way by SNCB. In addition to the pilot project, SNCB is working on the business case to determine the economic feasibility of deploying to the Belgian rail network. The intention of SNCB is to carry out the pilot project on a journey in order to be able to compare in the best possible way the different technological solutions possible. The selected route will be described in the terms of reference for the pilot project, which will be published in the short term. During the pilot project, the wireless internet service will be offered free of charge in the car where it will be made available. No decision has yet been taken on this matter. These aspects will be dealt with within the framework of the business case which needs to be further developed. Given the high investment cost, it is unlikely that all trains and/or lines will benefit from this equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u61	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I also look forward to the roll-out and a positive evaluation of the pilot project. Can you give me a timing? By when will the operators draw up a proposal? When will the pilot project be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u62	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u63	The minister asked for a short break. I would like to remind you that, as the minister is due to leave at 5 p.m. at the latest, if everyone is short, we will go to Question No 2410 by Mr. Van den Bergh. The following questions are postponed for two weeks, with the Minister coming next week to the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u64	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the renewed fares. The problem is well known. Recently there was a response from the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap. According to the Council, ticket machines are not always sufficiently accessible to persons with intellectual or physical disabilities. Moreover, not every citizen has the same ease of access to a computer or mobile phone, or is he or she not always familiar with it. That goes for the vending machines, too. There is therefore a problem there and possibly a form of discrimination. However, there is also a second aspect to the changed rates. In the past, train drivers were paid part of their wages in proportion to the number of tickets sold on the train. The new regulation of the on-board fares has undoubtedly had an impact on that part of the train escorts' salary. I come to my questions. How can we ensure that disabled people and people who are digitally disadvantaged can also buy tickets without problems? With regard to the fee, how much was paid in 2014 or, if that figure is not yet known, in 2013 to additional or variable wages for train escorts through the sale of train tickets on the train? What percentage is that part of the salary compared to the total remuneration of the train attendant? How is that calculated? What impact will the new scheme have on the average salary of the train coach? How will any loss of earnings be compensated? How much will any compensation cost in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u65	Madam President, first of all I would like to stress that the policy adopted by SNCB to combat all forms of discrimination, and specifically against persons with reduced mobility, is fully in line with the relevant national and European regulations. The vending machines are equipped in accordance with the standards. Apart from their simplicity in use and the user-friendly sales dialogue, since the introduction of the on-board fare a hotline has been set up for the vending machines. SNCB hopes, of course, that there will be a certain habit in the use of the vending machines and that the passengers will be able to use them autonomously after some time. SNCB will continue to provide this service whenever it is desired. At the time of payment with a bank card, the guidance stops, because of the confidentiality of the data. Regarding your questions about the train escorts' premiums, I can answer that SNCB paid €2.75 million in premiums to train escorts in 2013, representing 1.9 % of the total remuneration of the train escorts. That premium shall be calculated on the basis of two elements, namely the amount per passenger put in order and a percentage of the revenue. It is too early to assess the impact on the remuneration of the train escorts. After all, the on-board fare has only been applicable since 1 February. This will also be discussed in joint committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u66	Madam Minister, I note that the premiums and variable wages cost a total of EUR 2.75 million in 2013. That's a serious amount of pay. I understand that the effects cannot be calculated at 100% today, but there will certainly be an effect. I therefore hope that everything necessary will be done, if there is a loss of wages, to give the necessary compensation to the train escorts, so that they do not become victims and they do not suffer any loss of pay due to reforms introduced by the employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u67	Madam President, Minister, unfortunately there are still many cases of suicide on the trail. Last year, 200 people tried to get out of life by throwing themselves in front of a moving train, that's almost four a week. Of course, every dead man is too many. Although the number of successful attempts has fallen, the number of successful attempts is still very high. These alarming figures are a tragic reality for the people who think of suicide, for the relatives and, of course, for the train drivers involved, which is a nasty experience for all these people. These figures must therefore be reduced at all costs and as much suffering as possible must be avoided in the future. What measures have already been taken to reduce the number of suicides on the tracks and attempts to do so? What additional measures will you take to reduce these dramatic figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u68	Madam President, I have already replied to the first part of the question in the Infrastructure Committee of 10 February 2015, in response to a question from my colleague, David Geerts. As regards the additional measures, the extent to which it is possible and desirable to spread the public emergency number to local residents of hotspots in relation to suicides is being investigated. There is also international reflection and cooperation on this issue by international institutions in which SNCB participates as an active member, such as the Union Internationale des Chemins de fer (UIC), COLPOFER and other railway-related organisations. However, it must be remembered that the complete closure of the railway domain is impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u69	Madam President, Minister, I believe that we should continue to focus on prevention in the area of suicide. We must also continue to work on measures to prevent people from taking their lives in this way. We look forward to further steps in this regard which you will take in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u70	Madam Minister, the Flemish Government recently approved an amended Regional Spatial Implementation Plan and a new Brownfield Covenant, which gives the green light to the Uplace real estate project in Machelen. As conditions for implementation, strong guarantees are provided for investments in public transport. For example, a high-frequency bus connection must be operational and the railway station Machelen Kerklaan, which fits into the suburban network GEN around Brussels, must have a building permit. This is essential, given the high number of expected visitors per year, namely 8 million. Without an optimal development of the public transport network, this means a heavy impact on traffic congestion in and around this area. In order to ensure that the arrival of Uplace does not lead to a massive traffic infarct on the Brussels ring and in the immediate vicinity of the shopping centre, the construction of this GEN station is therefore necessary. This is one of the accompanying measures recently imposed on Uplace by the Flemish Government. This was also debated today in the Flemish Parliament. I come to my questions. Firstly, does SNCB have a feasibility study on the usefulness of a station called Machelen Kerklaan? Are any studies already available to SNCB on which they base themselves? What are these figures? If not, are you prepared to undertake a mobility study to demonstrate with certainty that a GEN station is specifically needed for Uplace? Secondly, is the construction of this GEN suburban network included in the multi-annual investment plan for the period 2017 and subsequent with SNCB? When can you see the arrival of this GEN stop when Uplace arrives? Thirdly, are sufficient funds available for the construction of this GEN network and more specifically for the station Machelen Kerklaan? How much are these costs estimated at?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u71	Within the framework of the Regional Expressnet it is planned that the current stop Buda will be moved several hundred metres north and will be named Machelen. As a result, this stop can be operated not only by trains running via railway line 25 Brussels-Antwerp, as is currently the case for Buda, but also by trains on line 26 Halle-Vilvoorde and line 27 Brussels-Antwerp. If only the L trains that are currently passing will stop, this means that 48 stations will have a direct train connection with Machelen at least once an hour on working days. SNCB has not carried out a specific mobility study for Uplace, but the moved stop thus becomes the departure station for the approximately eight thousand inhabitants of the nearby center of Machelen and the new Vilvoorde (...) 4 Fountains, including 950 additional housing units. As soon as the planned relocation of the stop Buda is completed, SNCB will operate the stop Machelen with the suburban trains passing by. In view of urban developments in the environment and the expected mobility demand, SNCB includes the transfer of the Buda stop to Machelen in its amendments to the multi-annual investment plan. A cooperation agreement between SNCB, Vilvoorde and Machelen on the establishment of the stop area is in preparation. SNCB intends to submit the application for an urban permit by the end of June 2015. The total cost has been estimated at 3.2 million euro, of which 1.2 million will be borne by Infrabel and 2 million by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u72	Madam Secretary, if I understand correctly, are the works scheduled for the end of 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u73	June 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u74	It's about the award.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u76	I think it is certainly necessary to do this, as the project relies on a modal shift or split of 60-40 %, so 60% of customers would come by car and 40% by public transport. Those figures are still being contested today. In addition, the Flemish Government imposes that Uplace can only be established if the works have been carried out. I am not entirely happy that the planned shopping center will be there. However, when it comes to it, it is important to make it accessible to public transport. It is remarkable that SNCB has already taken this into account. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u77	Madam President, Minister, the use of bus lanes is, according to the traffic regulations, restricted to vehicles of regular services for common transport, taxi fare, school vehicles and priority vehicles. Cyclists, mopeds, motorcyclists, passenger transport vehicles with more than eight seats and commuter vehicles may follow this lane provided that the road manager so permits by means of a road sign. Several other road users ask to be able to use bus lanes as well. I am thinking here of administrative cars of public transport companies, such as De Lijn, non-priority sick transport, car parts systems, vehicles with professional drivers and so on. In order to enforce the traffic rules, it is of course important that only identifiable vehicles and vehicles that contribute to sustainable mobility should be allowed to use the bus lane. All these questions from various angles lead us, Madam Secretary, to put the following questions to you. How do you evaluate the current regulations on the use of bus lanes today? A few years ago, for example, the possibility was created of allowing mopeds and motorcyclists to use a road sign to access those strips. What is your future view on the use of bus lanes? Do you consider it desirable to allow more or less vehicles on these strips, so that they will be used more or less? What criteria would you like to put forward for this? Do you plan to include the use of bus lanes in the general revision of the Road Code that is envisaged? So far my questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u78	Madam President, by including in the traffic regulations the possibility for certain categories of road users to be admitted to bus lanes and particularly overcrowded beds by means of an adapted signalling system, the federal government has done what was feasible within its area of competence. The extent to which this possibility is used is an autonomous competence of road managers. I support the regulation because it places the responsibility of the level of competence best placed to decide which category of vehicles can be admitted. Bus lanes and particularly crowded beds are the primary objectives of promoting the flow of public transport. There can be no question of that. However, this does not mean that consideration should not be given to the possibility of including other categories of vehicles, for example in the promotion of alternative fuels. It goes without saying that this point will be addressed when discussing the revision of the Road Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u79	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, in which she left an opening for the discussion of the revision of the Road Code. It is important to look at that again. Of course, it is up to the road managers to decide, but it is the federal government that has to create the opportunity. For example, consideration should be given to non-priority transport of sick people. Today, the Region cannot allow this, because it is not in accordance with the Road Code. It is good to include this point in the discussions on the revision of the Road Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u80	Madam President, Minister, the Tournai-Lille line has been experiencing difficulties for many years. Because of certain difficulties, I mean many delays and even the abolition of trains. It is therefore a real ordeal for commuters crossing the border every day. I read in the press this weekend that these problems seem increasingly recurring, especially for a week. The problems would be due to technical failures on the rail. Who is responsible? That's the whole problem. SNCB blames SNCF and vice versa. In short, everyone refers the ball back and so the problem does not seem to find a solution. I also read that meetings were planned with the heads of each network to locate and identify the problem. Minister, has the situation progressed? If not, how can we unblock the situation to allow cross-border commuters to travel across the border?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u81	Madam President, for the past few weeks, SNCB has been facing an unprecedented problem on the Tournai-Lille line, namely a multiplication of cases in which railway equipment running on this 25 KV axis by SNCF suffers considerable damage to its electrical equipment due to abnormal peaks of voltage. SNCF is looking for the cause and is also looking for ways to adapt its feeding system. As for SNCB, it is looking for a solution to ensure that electrical equipment on its equipment is no longer damaged in the event of an overvoltage. SNCB was therefore required to take the decision to suspend the movement of its rolling stock on this axis until a solution was found by the technical services concerned, both on the Belgian and French sides. Pending the restoration of normal train service, measures have been taken to limit the impact on passenger service, even though a change of train to the station of Tournai is inevitable for passengers travelling on the Walloon dorsal. Thanks to the active collaboration of SNCF, SNCF has agreed to provide part of SNCB's services with its own equipment. With the adaptation of a few timetables and a bus service for certain routes, the SNCB tries to limit to three the number of daily traffic deleted between Tournai and Lille.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-25-54-commissie-ic099x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you.
