ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years ago, in 1915, the Ottoman Empire's then government began with the systematic deportation and subsequent elimination of the Armenian population. In that period there were also mass murders on the Assyrian, Aramean and Chaldean Christians and the Pontic Greeks. In 1918, American President Theodore Roosevelt called the Armenian mass murders the greatest crime of the war and concluded that silence about that event would mean that all words about future peace would be complete nonsense. In 1987 the European Parliament adopted a resolution recognising that the tragic events that took place between 1915 and 1917 against the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire constitute a genocide as defined in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Genocide of 1948. Until today, Belgium has been left behind in the debate on recognition, but recent and unmistakable statements in the press by Prime Minister Michel have been encouraging. I wish to thank him for this. It would be nice to have the Belgian Government explain its position in Parliament as well. Hence my question, Prime Minister. Can you tell us what the Belgian Government's formal attitude is with regard to the issue of the Armenian genocide?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 100 years ago the Armenian genocide began in the then Ottoman Empire. Over a few years, one to one and a half million Armenians and members of other minorities were deprived of their lives. The male population was forced into forced labour and killed, while women, children, the elderly and the sick were deported or sent on the march of death. Ladies and gentlemen, these facts are fully and unreservedly in line with the United Nations genocide definition. It was, in other words, a targeted genocide with a motive and a permanent meaning. Today, apparently, we are still struggling to define and qualify those facts. Today, people and communities continue to turn against each other. From our universal values, therefore, we do not need disguised terms or evasive answers. It was genocide. It is important for our country to say so clearly. There are several reasons for this. For example, we recognize the right of Armenians to give trauma a place in history. In this way, we can also fight together against any form of xenophobia and extreme nationalism. This will enable the peoples to reconcile, because the recognition of the crimes and the mistakes of the past is an important condition for this. It is about facing history and the possibility of reconciliation, not about the question of responsibility or guilt. Prime Minister, the European Parliament has recognised these facts as genocide. The Senate did that in 1998. You recently, in a broadcast of the RTBF, said the word genocide. My question is whether you, on behalf of the Belgian Government, here in Parliament, want to classify the facts of a hundred years ago as genocide, not with an accusing finger, but to allow reconciliation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between history and the future is sometimes complicated. A few hours ago, we were in Waterloo to commemorate an important part of the history of our continent. I want to be very clear, my position is well known and very clear: I believe that the tragic events between 1915 and 1917 should be described by the last government of the Ottoman Empire as genocide. That is the position of the Belgian Government. [[Applause]] I would also add that it is crucial for the future, as you have said, to encourage the efforts for reconciliation. Dialogue is crucial for the future. In this regard, I would also like to welcome developments in the official speeches of the Governments concerned, including the expression of condolences that have been expressed. We know very well, in Europe, how important reconciliation is. We are a land, a continent, an area where peoples have waged war in a tragic and dramatic way. In Europe we have experienced fascism, totalitarianism. It has been possible, through dialogue, tolerance, openness and respect, to include the future of the peoples of Europe within the framework of the European ideal and the European project. It will be up to national or international courts to decide on these matters. As you did, I would like to recall the expression, at the beginning of the Senate in 1998, since a resolution already called on the Turkish government to recognize the genocide perpetrated by the government of the Ottoman Empire. This resolution made explicit reference to the 1987 European Parliament resolution. I believe that the questions that have been asked and the answers that have been given to them give the Government of our country an opportunity to express, with clarity and force, a position on this sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you and, of course, the entire government for your very clear and clear answer. The government is thus taking an immense step which removes any ambiguity in this area. As a result, I will present to the services of the Chamber today the text of a motion for a resolution, which will give the Chamber the opportunity to rule on this matter and ask the government to keep an active eye on this matter. The text I am going to present is to place these important statements within a process of reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia, a process that is today prevented by this theme. The recognition of these historical facts must remove a serious obstacle which prevents any progress towards mutual relaxation today. That is not an unnecessary luxury in the turbulent region where the facts have taken place. My group would like to thank you very much for your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply, which makes history. It is a very powerful signal to all citizens all over the world. We must dare to name the facts. By accepting our world history with its black page, we can go further and prevent history from repeating itself. The worst thing for the victims is that their fate is hidden, forgotten or, worse still, denied.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have been hearing the majority talk about a shift tax for several months. I'm not going to ask you about this shift in general. I'm not going to ask you about its amount or about the millionaire tax that you're not going to take anyway. I would just like to focus on the question of raising VAT on electricity. You will recall that, on 29 November 2013, the Di Rupo government decided, in the framework of a competitiveness pact, to reduce this VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to listen to the speaker?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u9	Mr President, thank you. The Di Rupo government, in all its components, had therefore decided to reduce this tax from 21 % to 6 %. This decision was heard favourably in the country. I read to you a press release: "It was essential to take a measure that fits in time, in order to support the purchasing power of citizens, at a time when energy expenditures represent a heavy financial burden in families' budgets. This measure will also have a direct effect on employment and purchasing power." I have no doubt that you remember that sentence, Prime Minister, since you were the author of it – at the time, you were presiding over the MR. Everything in this press release is perfectly accurate. The reduction in VAT from 21 % to 6 % was doubly positive: for the purchasing power of households and for economic activity, i.e. domestic consumption and employment. It has been calculated that, on average, a family earned around EUR 100 per year as a result of this reduction in VAT. It is also essential for families who experience situations of energy insecurity. Now, there is a question in the discussions on the tax shift of returning to an increase in this VAT, which would have an impact of 100 euros per year per family. By adding your tax on intercommunal electricity, that would be 140 euros per year per family. Is it correct, Prime Minister, that you are working on an increase in VAT on electricity? I will say this differently: can you guarantee here, in Parliament and in front of our fellow citizens, that there will be no increase in VAT on electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u10	Mr President, Mr Charles Bilderberg Michel, if I may call you that, I have a question for you. Who said, "Don't touch VAT"? He was the president of the MR in 2012. I don't know if you remember, but you were then president of the MR. You repeated this statement: "Not touching VAT" in October, at the time of the formation of the government. Today, we are discussing the tax shift and one of the avenues that comes into play would be an increase in VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%. That's one of the leads. In fact, in the government, some take the Netherlands, where the reduced rates have been abolished, as a model. One could take the example of Greece to which the European Union imposes an increase in VAT, particularly on energy. VAT, and in particular VAT on energy, is an unfair tax. Not progressive, it affects everyone the same way with the same rate. Secondly, energy is a basic need. It is not normal to pay the same rate of VAT on energy and caviar! Indeed, the evolution of the legislation has seen a reduction in the VAT rate from 21 % to 6 % on electricity. It is worth recalling that the PTB collected 225 000 signatures for a 6% reduction in VAT on electricity and energy products. Prime Minister, yesterday the PTB launched a mail action in your direction. According to the latest figures in my possession, at 11:00 a.m., 1,700 e-mails would have been sent to you. Can you confirm these figures? Can you make a formal commitment not to change this 6% VAT rate on electricity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, even before I elaborate on my intervention on tax reform, allow me to welcome the statement you have just made on the recognition of the Armenian genocide. There are times when democracy must come together. When the Head of Government makes a statement that is clearer and clearer than the one made by the Minister for External Relations a few weeks ago in the same forum, it deserves that the Democrats come together and welcome what must be one of the foundations of our common objectives in Europe. Irrespective of this, the tax reform you are announcing deserves a comment. You will tell me that you cannot be questioned about your intentions and that the press is reporting only leads. We know the speech, but the time has come to tell us two things, Prime Minister, about the electoral commitments you made. Can you say today the extent of the tax reform you are considering? What is the amount put on the table? Are we moving towards a mini-reform or will it have a significant scale that all economists, all specialists, estimate at the bottom of the word around 8 to 10 billion euros? The magnitude of ambition determines the task ahead of you. I come to a second essential question. Of course, in the election campaign, the MR and others said: "No compensation for tax reform. It will in itself be sufficient in budgetary terms. The feedback effects will be such that it will not have to be compensated." Today, however, we see very clearly that what is blocking compensation and that compensation, if you have to find it, may limit the scope of tax reform. Prime Minister, given the magnitude today, where will you put the effort of compensation? There's not a lot of leads. We find that you would question the lower rate of VAT on electricity. We could talk at length about VAT. Be careful, if the real ambition is at last to support economic growth by restoring purchasing power, don't take back what you will give with the other!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your government's agreement provides for a tax and parafiscal shift to try to reduce the burden on work. But, if you have not been able to reach a full agreement on this mechanism from the beginning of the legislature, you have for the last few months been exposed to exits from the various partners of your majority, each marking a little of its territory, defining its priorities, displaying taboos and trying to plant some banderillas in its neighbour, with the risk of a certain cacophony. I think you have seen this risk and this threat well because, obviously, you have decided to take things back in hand and start a negotiation process within the Kern. It was absolutely indispensable. In this context, I suspect that you cannot give us much information about the content of the negotiations. However, like my colleagues, I would like to have some insight. I wonder, like Mr. Maingain, what we're talking about. What is the scope of the proposed reform? What's the target? On what budgetary basis do you carry out your work? This is obviously the initial question from which everything arises. Can you provide us with some information in this regard? What method do you intend to use? Will you stay in the closed house of Kern, which is also a very relative in camera because we have almost the minutes of the meetings in the press shortly after the meetings? Or will you open the circle of initiates? Are you going to have discussions with official bodies – I'm thinking of the Planning Office or the Senior Finance Council – or with other partners that may be able to enrich these discussions? I am of course thinking of the social partners. The latter would certainly have some interesting reflections to share about the cost of work. I am also thinking of the Regions that could be affected by the reforms, the cities and the municipalities, since any decision on PPI would necessarily have an impact on them. How will you manage these consultations? What's the calendar? Will you link these negotiations with the preparation of the 2016 budget? Finally, if you allow me, since we are in a period of military commemoration, how will you manage your troops? For now, they tend to disperse. There's a lot of discussion in the ranks. Are you going to impose some discipline on your troops, resume communication or let each other continue to express itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, the reduction in wages in this House was a top priority from the beginning of your government, but it was already a priority in the previous government. Today, she's still a top priority. An important element in this is the tax shift you announced here nine months ago. You will also receive broad support to implement that tax shift in order to achieve a drastic reduction in the wage burden. In the meantime, we're nine months away. I am quite right to hear Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters say this week that this dossier is urgent, because our companies and companies cannot wait any longer for it. He expects a decision to be made before the summer recess. The harsh remarks made by the coalition partners of CD&V make it clear to me that the liberal parties, but also N-VA, are aiming for the autumn and that will link it to the budget. CD&V can count on our support in this respect, let us be clear. Before the summer, this government must give that signal. I can say that CD&V has been a loyal coalition partner. They have swallowed the index jump, their demand for the index jump for the rental prices has been withdrawn, meanwhile they have also swallowed the diamond tax. I heard the president of CD&V this morning say that it can stop bashing the CD&V ministers. It is time that you, as head of government, made it clear that this important decision must be made before the summer. Prime Minister, we are concerned that this government would like to raise VAT on energy prices again. The previous government, including you and CD&V, decided to reduce VAT from 21% to 6%. If the tax shift for this government means that VAT on energy prices is going up, that is to say, with the words of the liberals, a tax lift for the ordinary man in the street. As far as we are concerned, we continue to oppose it. It would be good if you would say today that there could be no increase in VAT on energy prices from 6% to 21%. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, the tax shift is a bit like Mrs Galant's plan to modernize SNCB, we talk a lot about it, but no one has seen it yet. Members of your government and your majority also speak a lot in a variety of ways. You managed to create a wait. After the very negative decisions you have taken on social, budgetary and environmental matters with the extension of nuclear power, we expect a reform of this tax system which is unfair in terms of income distribution, inefficient in economic terms and which does not support positive environmental behaviour. As your government has difficulty finding the recipe for tax reform that would improve our system, I would like to remind you of the proposals we have made, as ecologists, to improve Belgian taxation. Do you envisage a re-globalization of income, i.e. looking at income from capital as income from labour, to have a broader basis, to have more progressivity? Are you planning to reduce the tax for low and middle income? Are you considering making a greater contribution to capital income and reducing labour costs? In terms of corporate tax, are you going to help SMEs by reducing the tax burden on them? This will require a review of the system of notional interests, which is costly and which, economically, has not created the promised jobs. This system mainly benefits multinationals that do not respect the game of job creation and the real economy. In environmental matters, will you support positive behaviour for our planet and for the future of our children? Are you going to consider better financing, through tax aid, positive behaviour? I am thinking of SNCB and energy savings. In terms of capital, will there finally be a tax on capital gains, a contribution from the highest incomes? Prime Minister, you understand, we are waiting. Your tax shift, what is it, what is it, when is it? We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot yet confirm the 1,700 e-mails sent by the PTB to my office, but I am committed to doing so this afternoon, if that is the case. I sometimes get the impression that the questions about the tax shift keep coming back to plenary. I am, of course, prepared to give the same answers to the same questions; that is what I intend to do today. I would like to mention a few concrete commitments. This government has made two important decisions. Firstly, we want to accept our responsibility for the improvement of the budget. That is not obvious or easy. Before the Easter holiday, in the context of budgetary control, we took the additional decision to put our budget in order. We must monitor and monitor this on a permanent basis. In a few days, we will have additional figures for the 2015-2016 situation. As it is classic in the lives of all the governments of this country, we regularly receive monitoring of expenditures and revenues. We will have this information in the coming days and weeks. Secondly, we have taken important decisions to reform the country economically and socially with a view to creating more jobs because more jobs are the best way to ensure sustainable social protection. As far as we are concerned, this is a leitmotiv. We have not remained without action, without taking a decision, since in a few months many concrete, operational measures, decided by the government and voted by the parliament have been taken and are being implemented. When, from time to time, I find myself abroad trying to convince companies to invest in our country, I see that it is increasingly happening that the reforms undertaken in our country to attract a capacity to create value and jobs are taken into account with great interest. This is an extremely important point. With regard to tax reform and tax slippage, there is a willingness to work to simplify our taxation, make it more transparent, fairer, fairer. If it had been as simple as some might say, Mr Vanvelthoven, why have the parties that have participated in the government continuously for 25 years failed to make taxation fairer? It is correct, that is not an easy task, but we are not afraid. We have not chosen the easy way, that is not the direction we have gone. Relax, dear colleague! I am very flattered, as is the government as a whole, to inspire so much impatience and desire among some of our colleagues. What commitments have been made? I'll call them back. Before the end of the parliamentary session, by the end of July, we undertook to conclude a comprehensive agreement. In my opinion, it is not very sensible to want to focus on one point without looking at the whole reform. Our top priority is to reduce the burden on labour. That's the priority! Then there is the question of how this can be financed. There are three possible sources of revenue. They are known by both the OECD and Members of Parliament. Everyone knows that there are three possible sources of income, in addition to a possible payback effect. It is the taxes that concern indirect taxation, it is eco-fiscality, it is the income of capital. And what matters is to have a global solution, with an intelligent mix to support the purchasing power of people who work with lows and lows, to support the social reforms that have begun, and to support even more strongly the capacity of small, medium-sized and large companies to create additional jobs on a sustainable basis. That's the direction we're working in. I do not intend to be destabilized Thursday afternoon after Thursday afternoon by a kind of dialogue of the deaf that some would like to establish. Still a little patience and in a few weeks, the government will reveal the agreements and proposals for a comprehensive tax reform and the specific policy directions that go hand in hand with this commitment. Thank you for your support and attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u16	Waterloo, low-lying wretched! I asked only one question. I thought I wasn't going to talk about everything, including emails. Prime Minister, I was hoping to have an answer to my specific question: is it true that we are working on the increase in VAT on electricity or can you guarantee that this increase will not take place? I have not heard an answer to my only question. I thought if I was talking about everything, global solutions, smart mix, all this... I'm just going back to my point. I see that in Greece, the European troika is trying to impose on the Greek government this unjust and anti-social increase in VAT on electricity. We see where you're inspired. We know that various measures have been taken: index jumps, non-indexing of tax reductions, indirect taxes and excise duties. On the other hand, profits, benefits, gifts to diamond dealers and holders of capital. Again, this government is moving in the wrong direction through unfair measures that will affect workers, pensioners and social beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u17	Prime Minister, unlike my colleague Mr Delizée, I asked you two questions. You answered one of the two questions. In the meantime, the number of petitions sent to you to keep VAT at 6% has increased from 1,700 to 1,979. On the other hand, you did not answer the essential question which was much simpler: do you commit to maintaining 6% VAT on electricity? You obviously refuse to answer. The consequences will have to be drawn. Today, the population is paying higher and higher electricity bills because of your government's action. On the other hand, Electrabel is holding up more and more thanks to the extension of the nuclear power which will be voted on earlier. Yet there is a very simple alternative to tax shift and taxation: the tax of millionaires. This tax that the PTB presents is supported by the most important party of your majority, the N-VA. Bart De Wever said if we could tax 1% of the population, the richest percent, we would. It's feasible, just adopt the PTB's millionaire tax! Colbert said, "Let's charge the poor, they're more numerous." Let's stop taxing the poor, let's tax the rich! They are less numerous and richer especially!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u18	Prime Minister, your answer has been agreed and, it is true, repeated from week to week, every time you are questioned. Don't be surprised we're questioning you! That's because the debate comes from your own ranks. That's because in the majority, there are controversies. We can also ask ourselves if there is an arbitrator. It is not bold to ask the head of government if what is in the public square, made visible, in the sight of all is confirmed. It is still the government's responsibility to take on what is said in the ranks of its own majority. Besides, that you are not destabilized by our questions, we do not doubt it. But it is your electoral commitments that destabilize you! Because it is your electoral commitments on tax reform that you will probably not hold. We are waiting to verify the compliance of what you will decide with what you have promised. I recall that the major commitment was "our tax reform has no budgetary implications". We'll check!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u19	Prime Minister, you have announced a repetitive response, which I confirm. This is not so frustrating for the opposition, but it is counterproductive for the cohesion of your majority because, beyond a few somewhat ritual formulas, we have the impression that the less you say about it, the more the partners of your majority spread in the press, which creates this feeling of cacophony that you have not lifted today. You ask what has been done in past years and you tell us that the situation is not simple. I suggest you interview the holders of the Department of Finance who have been in the hands of the MR for 11 years. It is easy to reject the current inertia over past years as you assume important responsibilities. Since you are telling us that it is not simple, I invite you to consult the bills that the cdH group has tabled, some of which are aimed at reducing the IPP but also at reducing corporate taxes, reducing social contributions in a targeted way, within a framework of budgetary neutrality with compensation. You will not apply the reform of the CDH but you can certainly follow its main principles. I ask you, Prime Minister, to be ambitious but also to be fair. Reform must be ambitious, but it must not be financed by future generations by letting budget deficits run, as you said. Do not make it financed by consumers either. On the other hand, polluters, speculators and fraudsters must be targeted. For pity's sake, don't get your reform financed by consumers and citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have literally repeated your answers from the last few months when you said that we must have a few more weeks of patience. You've been saying that since November. It is hilarious to see how the majority parties applaud exuberantly every time you say to be patient for a few weeks. That has been said for months now. I hear CD&V saying it has to be before the summer. You certainly remember it had to be before Easter, and now it has to be before the summer. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u21	That's right. CD&V said before the Easter holidays. It is a great pity that you do not want to go into this further, because this government has taken many decisions in the meantime, and that also has to do with tax shift, which is linked to the increase in the people's invoice. That invoice has to be paid and at the same time there is the tax shift to the diamond sector, which has received a gift. That is the injustice we are suing here week after week, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u22	Prime Minister, if we were to call slogans, lack of answers, half-truths, we might already have a solution for this tax reform. [[Brouhahaha]] I forgot the unfulfilled promises! You say that you are going to present abroad the reforms that strengthen our economy. I don't know if you're talking about the "diamant" tax, the "caiman" tax, or the extension of the nuclear that locks us in the choices of the past. But fair, effective and green tax reform is possible in order to contribute capital income, free up the capacity to create jobs, support the real economy and SMEs and encourage positive environmental behaviour. For weeks I've been asking you with several colleagues, I wonder what you've been waiting for. Is that a bit of political courage or just concord within your government? Clearly, you do not succeed in advancing or honouring your electoral promises. This displeases us because fair, efficient and economic tax reform is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, questions were asked about this last week, but tonight it is D-day for the decision on Greece, or at least for the euro group. The Eurogroup has been able to play for years. The playing time of the euro group, to use your words in a different way, has led to this result. Pruning to grow, dear friends who use this dogma every day in their own country, has led to this disastrous result for Greece's GDP. Prime Minister, I would like to present to you a document that gives a human face to the disastrous situation. It's an article from The Lancet on February 22nd. This scientific journal has conducted an in-depth study of the results of the austerity or austerity policy. [[Speaker shows and hands over the document]] Infectious diseases have returned: HIV, malaria, tuberculosis. Child mortality has risen dramatically. Kids pass out at school because they haven't eaten enough. Food banks must be provided. As was said last week, suicide rates have risen by 45%. I can go on for a while, because the article is full of it. However, alternatives were possible, which is also stated in this article. We could have implemented reforms, reform which we are also in favour of, but at the same time social protection could have been strengthened, rather than the banks that most of the money has flowed to. The article in The Lancet shows in black and white that the radical austerity policy has not worked and that it takes an inhuman toll. The statements by Mr Van Overtveldt and yourself about playing time are in this light totally vengeful. The game of gawking with the Greek Government, as it does not help the Greek people and the people of Europe. My question is very simple. Tonight, Minister Van Overtveldt is going to the eurogroup. He's been in favour of a Grexit for years. What will be the position of our country tonight? What is our country's position on Greece's presence in the euro area? Will we continue to advocate measures that have clearly been counterproductive, increase VAT on medicines and even more cuts in social measures, or will we finally go after the Greek billionaires who have already drawn their money from banks in 2010?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u24	Prime Minister, I also brought something: a euro from the south of Europe, a symbol of our European solidarity. We are in solidarity with the Greek people, but we are not in solidarity with the Greek Government. One will only grow up in Greece, as a younger graduate and then have to look at a huge youth unemployment, against a huge debt mountain. The Greek people are victims of many crises, but also of many political scandals and corruption. It is up to us, all Europeans, to offer them a permanent perspective. Those Greek kids don't just want invoices. They need a plan, they need hope for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we see what happens when extremes come to power. In the Greek case, this is the extreme left, where there is no room for dialogue, but only for polarisation. If there is no room for dialogue, which we support with CD&V, there will be no solution. We are not going to put out a fire for six years and then finally bring the building down. We won't. It is therefore vengeful that the Greek political side says that there is no room for dialogue. That's obviously wrong. On pension reforms, on labour market reforms, the European Commission has always said that there is room for dialogue. Greece, of course, remains an important test case for the European idea. We must not weaken the weakest link in the euro chain. It is equally vengeful that the Minister of Finance has confirmed here that Greece is not prepared to put all the books on the table and to allow transparency in the figures. Even European inspectors in public buildings are refused. Mr Prime Minister, to what extent does this hard party policy in Greece, the stubborn nature of the leaders, affect the ability to find a solution that we so badly need? We cannot abandon Greece. How will Belgium stand in the negotiations on this Greek drama, which will continue over the next few hours? Why do these programmes operate in Spain and Portugal, but not in Greece? How can hope be created for Greece, for us and for the euro area?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Greece is extremely worrying and I am concerned. After all, about five months ago, I had a lot of contact with the Greek Government. I remember very well the first talks with Mr Tsipras. As with the other European colleagues, he has declared me his political will to remain within Europe. He also clarified his political commitments to work towards compromise, to make efforts and to work in full transparency with European colleagues. We have also had a great deal of contacts and discussions in recent weeks, both in the Eurogroup and in the European Council, in order to reach a solution and find a compromise. However, reaching a compromise requires an agreement between the two parties. That's a condition. In recent days, however, I am not entirely sure of the existence of the political will at Greek level to reach a political agreement and reach a solution. I say that here in great openness. That is a first point. Secondly, Mrs Almaci, you say that the results of Europe's strategy in Greece are a disaster. I note that the same strategy in Portugal and Spain leads to a situation in which these countries once again have positive prospects for the future, including the young people in those countries. I think that's important. Thirdly, there is a guarantee of over EUR 7 billion in aid for Greece. Since we are in this way united, I think it is logical that we should occasionally ask Greece what their intentions are and when and how Greece intends to pay back. These questions seem very logical to me. It is not correct to say that the European countries have not shown solidarity with Greece. We have been very supportive of Greece, and we will continue to show our solidarity, but that also means that the people in Greece who receive aid are obliged to do so. Finally, I have heard a great deal after my statements, after Donald Tusk's, after François Hollande's and Angela Merkel's. Yeah, playtime's over. The Greek Government does not, of course, see that as a sign of the Greek people. There can be no confusion for us between the Greek people on the one hand and the Greek Government on the other. We're gonna have the discussions hour after hour. I note that the President of the Juncker Commission is making a great deal of effort to find a solution. I also note that it is possible for an exceptional European Council to be organised in the next few days to have a political discussion. Maybe that's a piste. However, I hope that the euro area will be able to reach an agreement today, perhaps later in the afternoon or evening. That's my hope. The Belgian Government is currently working on this at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the clarity of your answer. You're saying that you're referring to the Greek government. No one can deny, however, I have just given you a number of examples: what you call playing time has all too concrete consequences for all Greek citizens who have therefore chosen that government. It is a blow to their face if the Eurocrats today, in an untransparent way, should be able to decide on what measures a people should take and if they decide not to go behind this Lagarde list of tax evaders, the Greek billionaires, but to increase the VAT on medicines. That has been the playing time of the past few years. Those were the negotiations that this Greek population is carrying. That is the reality. Prime Minister, I'm going to finish. There is a captivating opinion piece written by Joseph Stiglitz and about twenty other renowned economists in The Financial Times entitled "In the final hour, a pleasure for economic sanity and humanity". This is a dead end path to worse. What I want is for Belgium tonight not to make this battle the Waterloo of Europe but to carry out reforms that save the Greek population, tackle corruption and finally put the measures where they belong, not those that are already hard hit and not the ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Let us remember, above all, that this is a very important test case of European thought and international solidarity. It was a legitimate political choice to include Greece in the economic A core in the past, although the country was not fully fit. We want Greece to keep playing ball in that A-core, but then the coach will have to be a little less stubborn. We're not gonna let Greece walk straight into the Russian mouth, are we? Let us hope that neither the eurozone nor Greece is experiencing its Waterloo today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, today, more than yesterday, it is useful and indispensable to recall that Europe has been built to overcome national selfishness, hatred and fear of the other, to prevent the withdrawal of nationalism, populism and extremism that ravaged our continent in the last century. The Union has built itself on values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and values of solidarity. The crisis in the reception of refugees is unworthy of the European Union. In other words, the failure of the latter's asylum policy is unworthy of a power like ours. How can our states not agree to welcome people who are fleeing horrible situations, who dared to put their lives at risk to join Europe and hope to stay there? How can our States once again build walls at their borders? How can our States allow Greece, Italy and other countries to manage the reception of asylum seekers alone? During the meeting of Ministers of the Interior on the question of aid to Italy and Greece, the European Union showed the full extent of its divisions. This failure is the denial of the "Europeanist" values that Member States should defend. Prime Minister, next week the Heads of State and Government must find a common solution to this crisis of reception. There will be no European asylum policy without solidarity. So we have to regain the breath of the latter. On this occasion, Prime Minister, we expect Belgium to contribute to finding a solution to this crucial issue, which will provide a concrete and effective response to the problem of the reception of refugees. It is urgent to demonstrate that the European Union is a project of solidarity and not a sum of short-sighted national interests. In order to hold this speech of solidarity, we must obviously give ourselves the means to do so. However, your government's internal policy of receiving refugees is not a good augury. This morning, Fedasil's workers took action to denounce the budget cuts that your government is imposing, budget cuts that affect the reception, employment and even the existence of certain centres. Prime Minister, what initiatives do you intend to take next week to encourage a start and revival of the European Union to deal with the refugee crisis? How do you justify the cuts imposed on Fedasil when the crisis in reception is so acute?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question is extremely fundamental and I thank you for asking it. We have made progress in recent years in the framework of the European project and it is certain that the issue of migration is a matter for all the Member States of the European Union, especially the Schengen States. It goes without saying that we must work together to find solutions. That's a first point. Secondly, I agree with you on the dramatic situation for people who die in the Mediterranean Sea under absolutely unbearable and unsustainable conditions. We must, however, be very lucid, as you are certainly, about the causes, the reasons why, in recent months, we are confronted with a spectacular influx. It was already important; it has grown even more in the last few months. It is obviously the situation in northern Africa, in Syria, and especially in Libya, that creates a space, an opportunity for smugglers, traffickers to wager and earn money on human misery. That's what this is about. This is, of course, an important issue that must be resolved as much as possible within the framework of European solidarity. I want here to affirm, as you have done, our will to work in European solidarity. I will mention a number of elements here. First of all, the last European Council to deal with this issue has taken a few decisions. They can be considered insufficient. I can hear that argument, but everyone here knows the mechanics of decision-making at European level. An attempt must be made to convince a wide range of partners to share a decision together. First, it was the tripling of budgets for operations Triton and Poseidon. Secondly, it is the strengthening of resources for Frontex. Thirdly, it is the mobilization of State resources. And Belgium takes its share. As you know, thanks to the Defence, a logistic ship, the Godetia, is currently involved in humanitarian operations at sea. Secondly, the Commission made proposals. It is in itself very positive that in a few weeks the Commission has made complementary proposals to try to force governments to take attitudes and take decisions. There will again be an appointment, an hour of truth, between the European States in a few days, at the next European Council which will address this issue. I can tell you that, as we had already done at the previous European Council, we will plead to continue strengthening solidarity in two ways, not only towards immigrants but also between European states. Each European State must also take its share of responsibility on the subject. Finally, lastly, we also plead for effective and effective return policies, because these return policies for people who are not intended to stay in Belgium are also part of the solution. That is what we think!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for that clarification. We will be attentive to the answers provided and the solutions proposed at the Council. I asked you about the current situation at Fedasil. I will ask you again about this because unfortunately I have not received an answer. The right to asylum and the reception of asylum seekers are extremely sensitive issues, not because they are difficult to bring into public opinion but because they concern men, women and children who deserve to be treated seriously. In the face of the humanitarian emergency, finding a solution for these thousands of people also means giving meaning to the European Union and finding the founding values of the European project. In our own country, these values must be the driving force behind our asylum policy, failing which the consequences for a European Union already weakened by the rise of nationalisms of all kinds and the selfish withdrawal of its interests in the short term would be catastrophic and everyone would have to suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u31	Mr. Chair, Deputy Prime Minister, this week we learned that the government was looking at the end of the anonymity of prepaid telephone cards. The aim is to facilitate and strengthen the work of our police forces in order to improve the safety of our citizens. It encounters many difficulties at present in tracing the criminal and terrorist circles who regularly use these maps. If the principle of prepaid cards is not called into question, the means to end anonymity raise several questions. First of all, in terms of practical arrangements, what technical means are envisaged to obtain the identity of the buyers? How do I do it when these cards are sold via the internet or various distribution networks such as independents, night shops, bookstores or gas stations? Once this principle is implemented, this obligation to register made, how will it be done? Will all cards be affected, news as well as old ones? Will those who are obliged to register be punished if they do not? Given the multiplicity of current communication techniques, the end of anonymity to be effective will have to involve other means of communication, such as Viber, Skype or WhatsApp, which are also very popular with criminals seeking anonymity. Are you also considering the possibility of touching these means of telecommunications? These measures will undoubtedly have consequences for the economic models of the operators. How are the discussions with them, with the IBPT? Will this measure be consistent with the Constitutional Court's jurisprudence on respect for privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u32	Mr Foret, thank you for your question. In late March, my colleague Koen Geens sent a letter and asked for a study to remove the anonymity of SIM cards. The operators were contacted and mentioned the heavy administrative burdens that such a measure would entail. More fundamentally, the measure would be rather disproportionate and outdated. Following the total annulment by the Constitutional Court of the Data Retention Act, I believe that the balance between privacy and security must be carefully monitored. In fact, I share the reasoning of the Constitutional Court not to consider all citizens as potential suspects. In addition, there are risks that the measure would be overtaken by technology. As you said, today there are a multitude of other means called top over to get communications, for example Skype. In addition, some countries have introduced a measure such as this and have understood that its impact, particularly on crime detection, is relatively low. Countries such as the United Kingdom and Austria have taken a step backwards. Finally, I think that this measure would increase the burden for a group that is sometimes already quite vulnerable, it is often those who use prepaid cards. In conclusion, I am open to discussion but you will have understood from the argument that I am asking myself a lot of questions about the proportionality of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u33	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, everything lies in the proportionality between the means to be implemented and the benefits expected to achieve effective results. You are right with your Justice colleague, with your Privacy colleague and your Security colleague, with the operators and all those who will be able to take a lead on the criminals. We must ensure that the discussion begins and continues in order to anticipate the behaviour used by criminals, to counter these means of communication. I have no doubt that with the strength and vivacity of our government and the various ministers in charge of these multiple powers, you will be able to guarantee respect for privacy and ensure the safety of our citizens in our territory. Thank you for your clarification and for the frankness of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a period of terror and threat, a period of preparedness and continued alertness. In that respect, I am pleased that an anarchist gang has recently been rolled up. You will undoubtedly have heard the same news. I believe that this can be described as a success for our investigative services which thereby guarantee our security. I would therefore like to congratulate those people. The group we are talking about here, La Cavale, is very dangerous and does not hesitate to call for violence, arson or even ambush isolated and vulnerable police patrols. They make such calls both on their site and in pamphlets. That's not acceptable. What is worse, Minister, is that they do not even hesitate to take action. Think of the sabotage of police cars in Antwerp and cars of MEPs, the placing of fire bombs in the Vilvoorde police station and the arson in Brussels industrial buildings. In fact, searches have shown evidence of participation in terrorist offences. The gang was identified and six suspects were arrested but released. The detectives have been very disappointed. Minister, do you share my concern about the disappointment of the detectives, those who guard our security? You don't think there's been ice cream in the middle of the night? Do you think that this matter has gone too lightly or not? Have measures been taken to prevent this gang from making such calls or making such actions in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u35	Mr President, Mr De Groote, thank you for your question. It goes without saying that the Minister of Justice and the services of Justice in general are particularly concerned about these international anarchists who are interfering in local protests by local residents against the construction of the prison in Haren. The federal prosecutor has confirmed to me that the investigating judge has issued an order to search a number of persons. The investigating judge, who specialises in terrorism cases, has not issued an arrest order. I understand the detectives are disappointed, but it doesn't mean the investigation is closed at all. On the contrary, the investigation is continuing with all due speed. So I don't think there's any reason to assume that the court here isn't doing its job. It goes without saying that I am firmly opposed to vandalism and any form of violence. It concerns me very much and has a high priority. However, it is not because people are not taken into custody, that there is no investigation. Of course, the investigating judge orders autonomously whether or not to arrest someone. So I would not be too concerned, but I share your concern about the continuity of the investigation. I don't think anything's going wrong there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u36	Minister, I am pleased that you share certain concerns, especially with regard to the disappointment of the detectives. Of course, the investigation must proceed, but I would like to exclude in the short term that such matters occur again because the gang is now free to go. That is why it may be necessary in the future, Minister, to do some thinking on how to improve the right of positive entry. The law could perhaps be amended on certain points, so that we can respond to it in a shorter time to prevent such actions from damaging gang formation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I would like to share with you an article that has been published today and which reports on the results of the 2014 Game of Chance Commission report. This report mentions losses of approximately EUR 1 billion in 2013 for online users. Like your predecessor, you wanted, thanks to the law of 10 January 2010, to achieve a certain balance in the field of online gambling by establishing a licensing organisation. The law has had its effect and the first evaluations are encouraging because we can see that fewer illegal games from foreign sites are currently online. However, I think we can do better. Various implementing orders still have to be implemented, in particular for technical and control standards. I would also like to take over from the gambling committee by asking for new initiatives to better protect minors and monitor the ethics of online gambling operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in order to determine whether the current law allows for consistent regulation of gambling, legislative strengthening and controls is necessary, especially for games on the Internet. As Minister of Justice, I have engaged in a process to complement regulatory frameworks. It is necessary to amend the law, royal decrees and protocols. The law must be amended with regard to the reduction of supply, by reducing the number of playrooms from 180 to 150. It is also a matter of restricting the use of the term "casino", but also of prohibiting games and poker game machines outside the control of the gambling commission. I am referring here to section 3.3 of the Act, the exception of which leads to market distortion. As far as the National Lottery is concerned, the gambling commission granted a licence, on the basis of a royal decree, which was annulled by the Council of State. We must therefore reconsider this problem. Five royal decrees have to be taken and they will be discussed again in 2015 at the political level. The Royal Decree on Section 3.3 of the Act is currently being drafted and will be finalized by October next. With regard to the Royal Order on Ethics, in connection with the advertising organization, the Advertising Ethics Board was asked to determine the rules with the sector. Finally, three royal "Internet" decrees on supervision and control still have to be taken. Ten Internet protocols still need to be developed in relation to monitoring the server and game market. With regard to the adaptation of the EPIS system, aimed at excluding the player, we want to connect it to the national registry. To do this, computer work has started in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior and fortunately does not require regulatory adaptation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u39	Minister, thank you. You're a little "Minister of Buildings," because these are multiple in your department. Here's one more. We focused on everything we had to do. My question was more about online games. I hope we have the opportunity to work on it. I'm ready to get to it, and I know you too. We are all ready to work effectively, as has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in recent years 6 000 jobs have already been lost in the transport sector as a result of social dumping. In construction, there are 12 000 jobs. In total, therefore, some 18 000 jobs have disappeared as a result of social dumping. Social dumping is unfair competition from foreign workers who come here to work at dumped prices. As you yourself said, Mr Secretary of State, that is not fair to our own employees and to our self-employed who do want to work correctly. In addition, it undermines the social security system. Yesterday you were present at one of the 300 checks already carried out this year. The result of these checks proves that they are necessary: in 42% of cases infringements were detected. It is good that you make those observations, Mr Secretary of State. Our party supports you in that, too. However, when I read the testimonies of the people who assisted you in these checks, I am less optimistic. There is insufficient capacity in the police and in the social inspection. They do not have enough good information to carry out their investigations properly. On top of that, Europe makes Belgium even more difficult when Belgium wants to take measures to combat social dumping through A1 posting. I'd like to hear you say you're serious. However, I am concerned when I see the budget and the resources this government is making available to make this work. My questions are therefore the following, Mr Secretary of State. In the previous legislature, we unanimously adopted a measure to combat social dumping through A1 posting. You are now putting this measure on hold because Europe is whistling back at us. We propose that we carry it out anyway. It is striking that of all the fines that have been issued, none of them have yet been collected. I would like to read that you will discuss this with the Minister responsible, but I regret that you will only now do so. I would like to hear from you in what way and on what time you intend to do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u41	Thank you, Mrs Kitir, for your questions. Of course, social dumping is a top priority for this government. So we're gonna do everything we can to do that. A few round tables have already been organized, including in the construction sector. On 8 July, we will be working with employers, trade unions and administration with a number of measures at national and international level, the Benelux level, to address this. Such monitoring is, of course, important. I have said that announced checks will be carried out, as is the case in traffic, both for the deterrent effect and for the preventive effect. There is the repressive approach, but there is also the preventive approach. Everyone must realise that social fraud is a crime, at any level. Whether it's small or big, whether it's done by foreigners or natives, that's all I care about, it's social fraud. It is very important not to think that social dumping started on 11 October 2014. I am continuing the policy of my predecessor, Mr Crombez. If the measure adopted here is put on hold, then I have not taken any initiative. Indeed, this measure has never been applied because Europe contests the measure and has brought our country before the Court of Justice. You are well aware that I am going to continue the procedure and try to get the measure through, that is to say, for more resources from Europe. In concrete terms, rules are important. We need to check the rules and do that on the ground. I established that yesterday. The sanctioning is important, but in the end the final piece is still the collection of the fines. Yesterday I found that from the past, Mrs Kitir, there is a problem. I will address my colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt. Apparently, my predecessors didn't do enough. It is not possible for me that fines on people who receive sanctions should be left behind. If you commit crimes, you must also be sanctioned. I think that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u42	Mr. Secretary of State, you don't have to get mad. In the fight against social dumping you will find a supporter in the sp.a. You are indeed, in part, continuing your predecessor's policy. However, if fraud is detected, it cannot go unpunished. Checks will only be effective if fines are followed. I urge you to find a solution quickly. Apart from the discussion about the previous or this government, if problems are to be identified today, a solution must be found quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u43	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, EUR 11 million to distribute among the federal scientific institutions is a wonderful amount. That's good. I would therefore like to thank you for being able to do that. However, I have also visited the institutions. I listened very carefully and heard a lot of them. I have heard that they are aware of the need to save. They support the idea of reform. I have also seen that they are open to new policies, dialogue and change. However, I have also heard that they are at a disadvantage, that they cannot give their staff prospects, that the unstable context is taking too long and that there is internal discouragement and demotivation. Madam Secretary of State, 11 million euros is beautiful. However, investing without a clear view of what will come tomorrow, what is that? We read in the newspaper that the planned global reform is still waiting for at least a year. However, how can the FWI debt holders set serious investment priorities in this way? Researchers are also concerned. They are important users of the FWIS. They are very concerned, as we have read in a free gallery. FWIs are the places where knowledge from generation to generation is passed on. Madam Secretary of State, their questions are very reasonable. They want clarity and consultation; they want an indication that the government is doing their sighs in a thoughtful way. Madam Secretary of State, I do not believe, as some suggest, that a rotting strategy is in progress here. I don't believe that. I believe you want to help restore the institutions to their glory. However, it is high time that the necessary intensive discussions were held with all the institutions, that very concrete reform plans should be put on the table, that they should be tested together and that they should be worked out together. Madam Secretary of State, I have a few specific questions. How was the 11 million euros distributed? Public procurement also requires time. Do the institutions still need to spend these funds in 2015 or can they still use them for structural investment in 2016? Last but not least, what is the relationship between this one-off sum of EUR 11 million and the larger framework of reform and institutional autonomy? What are the planned steps you will take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u44	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in addition to the question just addressed to you, I would like to raise with you your general policy note, which presented a major reform of scientific policy, and in particular the abolition of the Science Policy PPS. Already in December, you said that a consultation with federal scientific institutions had begun and that they had been asked to define their priorities and major projects for the future, as well as to transmit a master plan. On the other hand, with respect to funding, you have presented your reform to us as an enrichment for these federal scientific institutions. "Enrichment", a bit strange, since they will see their staffing decrease. Indeed, even if the financial resources released by the abolition of the Science Policy PPS were to be used for their benefit, a decrease of almost 10% in the budget for federal scientific institutions was foreseen. Madam Secretary of State, have you already received the priorities of each federal scientific institution and where are the master plans in order to see where we are going? What savings will be required from federal science institutions this year and each year under this Parliament? Have any alternatives been found to offset the decrease in the budget you provide to federal scientific institutions? Finally, as far as BELSPO is concerned, how will the budget be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u45	Mrs Claerhout, thank you for your question and your support. First of all, I will talk about the EUR 11 million in additional investments that are being shared among the FWI debt holders. We have met representatives of every institution we have visited several times. We have asked them about their priorities and about the necessary investments. We have tried in dialogue with each FWI to respect the order of precedence, so that the EUR 11 million can now be used for the investments they consider necessary and which they have identified as a priority. They will indeed have to make these investments quickly. They will also be able to transfer part to 2016. It's one-off investments. This approach is already in line with future self-determination, as they have been able to give up all the priorities themselves, which can be reinforcing for the future. You will see that the investments are used for long-term investment, namely for the purchase of equipment that enables FSIs to advance their vision and mission. The next step is to investigate the best possible structure and optimal staffing of BELSPO. We are also negotiating the management agreements. Of course, mapping everything takes time. Mr. de Lamotte, I have learned about the priorities of federal scientific institutions (FSIs). In this context, an additional 11 million investments will be made in 2015. They will be the subject of a single operation, but their profit will be felt for several years. I think I have answered your question on the compensatory measures that must absorb the budget reduction. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that these EUR 11 million represent no less than 30% more than the current allocation. The demand for priority setting has also regularly raised structural problems. Financial, organisational and legal elements are indeed essential to secure the future of the operations of the FSEs. As I have just said, an in-depth study is under way. I know there's a rotten strategy. That is absolutely not the case, but you must understand that the independence of institutions takes time to work out the legal framework. That is why we first opted for the necessary investments worth more than EUR 11 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, the most important thing is that stability within the institutions can return as soon as possible. You are looking at the structures in which the FWI is best suited to work. I would like to continue to call for this to be done in very close consultation with the institutions. They know the bottlenecks best. I read in the paper that it will be at least another year's wait. Please let us move forward quickly. We can't just go away for a year. This is also about whether sponsors can continue to be attracted and how employees and researchers can continue to be motivated. I wish you every success in achieving that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. People working in these federal science institutions are concerned because they do not know how their future will be taken into account. I therefore call for consultation with them in order to reassure them and to be able to tell them what their future will be made of. I was a little disappointed with your answers on the masterplan and on the financing alternatives and I did not have an answer about BELSPO. Madam Secretary of State, we will surely meet in committee to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u48	Mr President, Secretary of State, the United Nations has informed us that we are far from doing enough as regards the reception of refugees. Europe must take another million. That seems to be some sort of humanitarian blackmail, because once we have the status of boat refugees, we have a kind of free ticket to Europe. However, I do not believe that Europe should be a lifeboat. On the contrary, we have a different role to play. Instead of taking refugees out of the water, perhaps we should give them a compass that shows them how to swim back to the country where they come from. In our country, 2.1 refugees per 1 000 inhabitants are received. In the EU, the average is 1.2, in France 1.1 and in Italy, which we are talking about today, only 1 per 1 000 inhabitants. The recent European summit was once again a failure, because no decisions were taken there, with the exception of the story about some sort of intermediate centre somewhere in Sicily. It seems that no agreement has been reached on quotas. Our country doubts, waits, doesn't know well and doesn't take a clear and firm stand. I blame you for being there. Apparently, next week, the Prime Minister himself will be travelling to the immigration summit. A stricter position will be needed, especially with regard to the figures before us, with more than twice as many refugees on average. Our positions must be those that are also being discussed in other countries, namely close borders, re-establish their own borders and dare to call the Geneva Convention into question again. As a small country, we would send out a clear signal that reception must be stopped and that solutions can be found not here but on the other side of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u49	Mr President, the day before yesterday in the Council of Ministers we had a wide-ranging discussion on emergency measures in relation to the situation in the Mediterranean. We have not yet reached an agreement. At the end of this month, the Heads of Government will continue the debate. I myself have raised a number of points which are a priority for Belgium. Firstly, the link between solidarity and responsibility. Belgium is and will remain a country of solidarity, but something must be done about this. Italy and Greece must correctly record and identify all boat refugees. In the current climate, it is unacceptable that we do not have an exact view of who enters Europe. Secondly, I have stressed that Belgium has been receiving and processing a very large number of asylum applications for years. This needs to be taken more into account. There are many other countries, such as Eastern European countries, which barely receive asylum seekers. That is not only the position of Belgium, but also of France, Germany and the Netherlands. Thirdly, a rapid return of economic migrants. The approach I have advocated here, together with countries such as France and Germany, is the creation of a kind of waiting room in Italy where there is a division between refugees who have an opportunity of international protection, on the one hand, and economic refugees who are not entitled to international protection, on the other. Those who do not have a right of residence must return quickly before they can move on to other European countries. The debate confirmed once again that there are considerable differences in the European Union. On the one hand, Member States want a more fair distribution with a compulsory distribution key. Belgium is part of this group. On the other hand, there are those Member States that only want a voluntary distribution key. That seems insufficient to me. The result of a voluntary system is that the majority of asylum seekers will eventually end up with us and our neighbouring countries. We've known that system for many years and it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I am largely in agreement with what you have said. I know the points of view, but unfortunately it is not enough. It has not been enough for a long time to repeat these views, and I believe that you and this government should send out a much clearer and more forceful signal. I notice that other countries are doing this. They say that they will close their borders if necessary because they no longer want to participate in the quota system and no longer want to receive refugees. Shouldn't we be getting a little sharper and firmer in that respect? In my view, we should at least agree with the greatest common denominator and whatever is confessed by the large states in Europe. As a small country, we can play a unique role. We can be some kind of icebreaker to make it clear that the flow of refugees will not stop as long as we allow there is only one chance of being recognized here. The only way to do this is to update the Geneva Convention and to accommodate everyone on their own continent. Moreover, that rule must be made clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u51	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u52	Mr Dewael, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u53	Mr President, I waited until the Secretary of State gave his answer, but I listened very carefully to Mr Dewinter and would like to come back to his question. I advise everyone in the Chamber to take a good look at the Brief Report and the Integrated Report. The way he built up the question literally comes down to this. I quote: "So instead of taking these people out of the water, they should be given a compass to allow them to orient themselves and swim back to the country where they come from." That's about what the description came down to. I would like to protest strongly against this presentation of things. That is unworthy of a member of this Chamber. (Applause) I do not accept that and I shall continue to protest against it until the last time. Mr Dewinter, you know very well that I once did so in a different context in the Flemish Parliament. I say it again: this is fascism, unadulterated fascism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u54	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u55	Mr Dewinter has the floor because of a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u56	Mr Dewael, I believe that we are in the Federal and Flemish Parliaments for about the same time and that we are always legitimized by the fact that voters vote for us and send us here. This also means that in a parliament there is such a thing as freedom of expression, the right to speak and not always to be beaten up with the announcement that one is a fascist, a Nazi or worse. Of course, you do that over and over again. Every time the debate is on immigration and hard truths are said that are shared by a large part of the public, the answer is not to make a firm immigration policy, but to stick the stamp of fascist and Nazis on the messenger. The debate will then be over, and there must be no more argument, there must be no more talk, and there must be no more listening. However, Mr Dewael, I will continue to speak and I will continue to speak the language of the popular street rather than the language of the Rue de la Loi, which is yours. This position must be capable of being expressed here. If I say with a boltade that our governments instead of sending ships out there to fish people out of the water, which is undoubtedly humanitarian, would better give people a compass to let them know what the way is to swim back, then that is not inhumane, then that is the example of the policy we should be pursuing, namely: to ensure that these refugees do not get into those crappy boats. We should ensure that the refugees do not drown in the ocean after which they must be saved. We must ensure that they know that they are not welcome here and that they do not therefore begin the killing. That is humanitarian, not the position you are defending, which puts the head in the sand. You continue to put into practice the humanitarian blackmail which is at the root of the policy of thousands of victims, every week, in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u57	Mr Dewinter, you had two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u58	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2015, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen, Ms Carina Van Cauter and Mr Philippe Goffin) amending the law of 21 December 2013 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the law of 22 March 1999 concerning the DNA investigation procedure in criminal matters with a view to establishing a DNA database "Most persons" as regards the date of entry into force, Nos 1133/1 to 3; - the proposal for a resolution (Mr Denis Ducarme, Tim Vandenput, Veli Yüksel, Damien Thiéry and Peter Buysrogge and Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mrs Sophie Wilmès) on the follow-up to the December 2013 European Council on the Common Security and Defence Policy and to the June 2015 European Council, Nos 1063/1 to 5; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Philippe Blanchart, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Olivier Maingain and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen) on the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia, and in particular on the situation of blogger Raif Badawi, Nos 1154/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2015, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Mr. Raf Terwingen, Ms. Carina Van Cauter and Mr. Philippe Goffin) amending the date of entry into force of the Act of 21 December 2013 amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Act of 22 March 1999 on the procedure for identification by DNA analysis in criminal matters, with a view to establishing a DNA database "Persons Missing", Nos. 1133/1 to 3; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Denis Ducrame, Tim Vandenput, Veli Yüksel, Damien Thiéry and Peter Buysrogge and Karolien Grosemans and Sophie Wilmès) on the follow-up to the December 2013 European Council on the Common Security and Defence Policy and the June 2015 European Council, Nos. 1063/1 to 5; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Georges Dallemagne, Philippe Blanchart, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain and Dirk Van der Maelen) on the situation of human rights in Saudi Arabia and in particular the case of blogger Raif Badawi, Nos. 1154/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u59	Bill tabled by: Proposal for a law tabled by: Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter, Philippe Goffin
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u61	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u62	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1133/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1133/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u65	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Denis Ducrame, Tim Vandenput, Veli Yüksel, Damien Thiéry, Peter Buysrogge, Karolien Grosemans, Sophie Wilmès
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u66	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1063/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1063/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Van Mechelen, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, voted on Tuesday in the Defence Committee, a majority against opposition, this resolution was already on the agenda of the previous week's committee, with the Open Vld co-signatory of the text calling for the debate to be postponed for lack of consensus in the majority. The N-VA partner, a very Atlantist, which is obviously his strictest right, did not wish to see a European preference for military purchases written black on white, which, for our group, is inconceivable in view of the forthcoming debates on the potential replacement of the F-16s in terms of jobs and of both economic and technological benefits. Moreover, for us, this debate should have taken place in the context of the broader debate on Defence Europe, a debate which, as a reminder, had already illustrated the difficulty for the majority in agreeing on the future of Defence and led to the adoption of a resolution which was not far-reaching, despite the hearings, the texts of the opposition and the amendments concerning the defence industry in particular. At the time, the weakness of this text on these points and its absence even in the resolution put forward by the N-VA on the future of the army already illustrated the differences of opinion within the majority. As far as this resolution is concerned, we do not object to the general idea of the text, namely that we support all the recitals, although it is a pity that no reference is made to the PS text adopted during the previous parliamentary term, which spoke of the importance of the European defence industry. We support an increasingly integrated Europe of defence, both materially, humanly, strategically and industrially. We therefore hope that this will be the position taken by the Minister at the forthcoming European summits. We support the need to move towards standardization of Belgian military equipment with our strategic partners such as France. We support the need for coordination with the federated bodies on industrial and research and development matters. We also support the idea of expanding the European Air Transport Command (EATC), which is a fine example of a defence embryo. On the industrial question, on which the majority find it so difficult to agree, because between a principled and blind industrial atlantism in the light of changes in US foreign policy, increasingly oriented towards Asia-Pacific and increasingly towards Europe, and returns for our jobs, our strategic and technological independence, it will one day be necessary to choose. For our group, the European defence industry is an essential aspect for the future of our defence and the future strategic plan in the face of the potential replacement of several major equipment. We call for a real ambition to consolidate the industrial and technological base of European Defence, creating jobs and rich in innovative know-how, as the F-16 demonstrated in its time. Therefore, demand 8 does not satisfy us very much. It disappoints us even when we say: "to study the relevance and legal feasibility of the implementation of a European preference clause in the arms market." How should this relevance be illustrated to the sponsors of this resolution? For our group, we must not study it but ensure it, without, of course, calling into question our commitment to NATO. Only around this Belgian and European industrial tool preserved and strengthened by the European network of defence SMEs will Europe need to be reactivated with the European partners who have the will and within the framework of synergies between civil and military research and development. Moreover, this cooperation must continue to encourage the joint purchase of European military equipment and thus further promote a common European-wide military training base and the total compatibility of the equipment in operation, which is currently lacking. Above all, we must not miss the European train and undermine this dynamic and all the potential benefits for Belgian and European industries. For example, the MUSIS project and the question of the long-term replacement of major equipment or the possible exceptions to be defended in the debate on the negotiating mandate for the potential free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. Finally, it is a question of focusing on the advantages that such cooperation can have for employment, growth, innovation and industrial competitiveness in the European Union, but also for our technological and strategic independence, which the F-35 does not a priori allow, among other things, while fully respecting the legislation on public procurement and the transparency, including parliamentary, that such markets involve. In order to do so, the federated entities must be fully consulted in the drafting of the future strategic plan. Indeed, it would be inconceivable for the PS Group that the strategic plan does not foresee anything at European industrial level and does not emphasize such a preference. Why, then, does the majority want to adopt such a resolution when it is in the hands of the strategic plan? Would there be difficulties within the government in ensuring the relevance of Belgian and European industry? A start will be offered in the coming weeks with the question of whether or not to maintain the ability of Belgian aircraft to transport nuclear weapons. This will determine whether the market for the possible replacement of the F-16 is open to European manufacturers or, on the contrary, already won by the US F-35. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, the PS Group will reject this text and stress once again its concern in the context of the potential future replacement and returns for our SMEs and European industry in general. By way of conclusion, it is a pity that this initiative of the liberal family ultimately met with opposition from partner N-VA. This turned a resolution that could have been noble in view of the initial objectives pursued into a watered down text, with blurred contours and no concrete scope, as reflected in Amendment No 17, which transforms the initial sentence "to open the EATC" to "consider the opportunity to open the EATC". Why not, as long as one is in it, a new amendment reading as follows: "Where appropriate and to the extent possible, provided that potential partners are potentially in agreement, consideration should be given in the search for a unanimous consensus, probably impossible to achieve but nevertheless necessary, to the consideration of the desirability of carrying out a study determining the conditions under which, or not, an opening of the discussions could be made to a probable, but nevertheless uncertain, future enlargement of the EATC." As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the PS Group will not only vote against this text, but will also not table any amendments because, and you will agree with me, it is impossible to amend the void. I also note that neither the Minister of Defence nor most of the authors of the resolution are here, which proves that we are speaking to say nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u68	The European Security Strategy dates back to 2003. Since then, much has changed in the world. The proposal for a resolution lists some of the most important geopolitical changes and also gives an indication of the new challenges in the field of security and defence. In recent years, we have been able to identify the increased deployment of the Belgian armed forces in Afghanistan, Libya, Mali, Iraq, the Horn of Africa and the Baltic States. We also see in our own country the impact of new threats, such as cyber attacks, radicalisation and terrorism. This is why the proposal calls on the government to work actively to redefine the European strategy in a European context as from next week. On the federal level, we have not been waiting for this European awareness, witnessing the call in the coalition agreement to give Defence the necessary means to carry out its tasks properly, including with a view to strengthening European security and defence policy and the credibility of Defence within Europe and within NATO. The government is currently considering the future of defence, based on a strategic vision developed by the Minister of Defence, which will also give rise to a new medium-term strategic plan. It is clear to us that all this is closely linked. Without a vision of the future, including investment in defence, the European security strategy will remain a dead letter and our country will not be able to live up to its status as a reliable partner in NATO and in Europe. That is why our group will vote enthusiastically in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u69	Mr President, this motion for a resolution clearly wants to support the creation of a European army. The European Union, which has received the Nobel Peace Prize, is now developing a military strategy that is not truly exemplary in terms of peace. The text therefore considers it to be clear that the Union must intervene all over the world: in the Middle East, in Africa, and even – even if it is less clear in the text – in Asia. In the name of this so-called evidence, ever greater investment would be inevitable. Indeed, financially, the motion for a resolution calls for more investment in defence. To whom would this money be destined? To the multinationals of armaments, which should develop. For example, point 12 states: "to pursue in a pragmatic but voluntary manner, in consultation with the sector, the grouping of European companies". It is therefore an explicit call to be a military-industrial complex, somewhat in the way that is happening in the United States. I'm kind of surprised. Generally, we are sold the European Union and its arsenal of anti-social measures on the grounds that it has preserved us from the war. What does this text show? That we must follow this bellicist trend! In addition to anti-social measures, warlike measures are added. So, the picture would be complete. What's more, this trend would be linked to the arms business. It's not really a virtue in itself. I can only tell you that the PTB is against such a motion for a resolution. And I will conclude by quoting the words of Jean Jaurès: "Capitalism carries in it war as the cloud, the storm.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, Belgian defence must enter into a European context. Everyone, every group, agrees on that, including ours. However, we cannot agree with this resolution because it seems to us to be far too vague. An important aspect of a common security and defence policy should focus on cooperation with countries in order to avoid overlaps and gaps. Only in this way can we, together with the other 28 EU countries, spend our defence budget in a smart way. If each of these countries wants to maintain a national army, we will spend a lot of money double. So we need to move towards a European continent that is really working together, not a European defence that is the sum of 28 individual Member States. In order to do this properly, Member States should be able to specialise in certain tasks, so that in the long term there will be no excess capacity of one task or undercapacity of another. That is why there is a need for a clear topdown approach from the European Council of Ministers to defence, the European External Action Service and the European Defence Agency. For us, it has to be a step further. We also want national defence planning to be coordinated in advance at European level within the European Defence Agency. Defence in the 21st century will either be European or will no longer be. Given the price tag, small and medium-sized countries will no longer be able to raise the funds to finance a national multi-purpose army. Militaryly, Europe consists of small countries with small armies and even smaller budgets. Even the French and British defence budgets are under heavy pressure. Their level of ambition has therefore already been greatly reduced. Germany has no great ambitions at all. Nevertheless, we all want to continue to do our own thing without genuine coordination. In practice, many of these countries maintain capacities, while there is already a surplus at European level. Take as an example tanks or fighter planes, which are often unexploitable even in certain interventions. That's pure waste. At the same time, the serious gaps in our arsenal are not being addressed. Satellites, unmanned drones, tanker planes and precision munitions are needed to carry out high-tech operations with less risk of casualties and civilian casualties. Ladies and gentlemen, European security and defence policy is not just about defence. Nowhere in the proposed resolution do we see a request for the government to address our security policy in a civil manner. There is no military solution. The military aspect can only be part of the solution. We must continue to work on diplomacy, prevention, development aid and disarmament. Prevention is still much better than cure and so much cheaper. In addition, we must also focus on the new challenges for the 21st century. Cyber defence becomes the problem of the 21st century. Here too, we must work better together at European level. With a view to moving towards further integration, we wish to go for specialization in agreement with the EU partners. We want to use the Belgian budget to develop a fully-fledged European defence together with the other Member States. This should lead to more and better defence for each euro invested. We do not have that view in the motion for a resolution that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European defence is growing in importance every day. Looking at the eastern and southern borders of the European Union, we note that the situation there is evolving very quickly. In addition, the United States is increasingly focusing its attention on Asia and its surroundings. The European Union needs to take more account of this, but the European engine is still a little sputtered. We note that European defence is still too fragmented between the Member States and that it has not been possible to respond effectively to specific situations in recent times. Our strategic vision of Europe's defence must therefore be made more efficient. I think we agree on that. More Europe is needed in the field of defence. That is also the objective of the motion for a resolution. We must, of course, also see the reality in which we have to work. Unlike certain groups, we do not see military cooperation across European borders as the miracle solution to all the problems and challenges that Defence is facing at the moment. Such bi- and multinational cooperation does not mean that in the future no major budgets for new investment should be made available, nor that the cost of deploying military forces in foreign operations will disappear. Moreover, it should be remembered that most other European countries have a strong national reflex towards their own defence, which makes the idea of a fully integrated and unified European army in the short term certainly not a realistic objective. The European defence industry needs to be strengthened. Developments and maintenance of capabilities in Europe need to be efficiently developed. Our objective is therefore a more competitive, innovative and integrated European industrial defence policy and a defence strategy to ensure and better highlight the competence of European defence. Moreover, the European defence industry must have a positive impact on related economic sectors in the EU and in our country. I believe that with this resolution we are taking an important step in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have already been able to look at the content of the resolution. It will certainly not surprise you that I would particularly like to explain the liberal values in this resolution. Our tandem MR/Open Vld sees the creation of jobs as the project of this government-Michel. Today, the defence and security sector employs more than a million European citizens. We must continue to invest in innovation and play our specialised industry and SMEs as an asset. Believe me, there are a lot of hidden talents and hidden treasures in the SMEs and PMEs. Anyone who wants to move forward must know history. Our continent has had many milestones in European integration since the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community. The liberal idea is always the avant-garde of the pro-European parties. Progress takes place in a period after a crisis. That's another constant in history. Such a period is now finally coming to an end. In 2015, it is illogical to maintain 28 separate armies in 28 individual countries and to define different defence and security strategies. As Liberals, we are strongly in favour of far-reaching integration. We are aware that this is not self-evident. The Benelux countries have a specific role to play. Belgium, together with Luxembourg and the Netherlands, can play a leading role and implement cooperation. In this way, we will prove the benefits and allow other countries to join in step by step. The European Air Transport Command, EATC, is a good example of how cooperation delivers a military, financial and also logistical return. All participants in the EATC use the so-called ATARES system. While partner countries could present the account to each other after each assignment, instead of the invoices, the number of flight hours is kept in a common accounting system. Cooperation and mutual services have become the key to this success story. Sovereignty is also an important element in this discussion. When I talk to people from the defence world about one command, I hear that our military are ready. However, the legislation needs to be adapted. There remain taboos at the water surface. This week, the Admiral of the Belgian Navy said that national interests will always prevail. Although further European military integration will continue to be a difficult task, the Benelux countries also show how sovereignty can be overcome. Our three countries will be jointly responsible for the surveillance of our airspace. If there is ever a danger in Dutch airspace by a hijacked plane, the Dutch government will give instructions to Belgian pilots and vice versa. I am convinced that the benefits of cooperation are greater than giving up any sovereignty. This does not mean that we do not want any more participation, but that cooperation and consultation should be just the foundations for a more uniform European front on the military stage. It illustrates what we want to achieve from the political world with this resolution, which is to throw taboos overboard and strive for more European defence in order to guarantee our security.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u73	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin my speech by thanking the services for working quickly to enable us to debate this motion for a resolution in plenary today, after it was voted on Tuesday in committee. We are therefore perfectly in time to give our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, a very clear mandate to bring our intentions to the European Council next week. The Heads of State and Government will take stock of an important issue for European integration: the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). Mr Pirlot, you seemed to regret my absence, but I am here because the subject is important. I was told you were as convincing as you were in committee on Tuesday. I will be able to answer a number of your questions. We are truly fulfilling our role here. We mandate the government to defend our country's CSDP option. Parliament therefore plays its full role and is involved in a proactive approach to this issue. It is clear that, in the field of European defence, we are witnessing a real deficit in parliamentary control over the CSDP. The exercise linked to this motion for a resolution seems to me to be a positive contribution to this obligation of transparency, democratic control and action by parliaments in this area. In the same vein, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Defence, we will have to come back to this matter in committee in the coming months because the question of the construction of European defence is not being dealt with in one day. Constantly, we must have in mind to produce and reproduce a number of proposals and exchanges on this subject in our national committees. I will therefore take the initiative to propose to the committee that our Ambassador be invited to the PSC (Political and Security Committee) so that he can give us all the useful details on the follow-up to the European Council, but also, and this is very important to me, on the industrial side of the CSDP. It is not said enough or unknown, but 400,000 direct and 560,000 indirect jobs are involved in Europe, i.e. nearly one million workers in leading-edge trades, in an extremely competitive sector where new Chinese, Indian and Brazilian producers are eager for new markets in the face of strong European, Russian and American producers. In other words, we have political responsibilities for this sector. The Minister of Defence is politically responsible. As we have pointed out in our motion for a resolution, the Regions also have their responsibilities. I have also taken the initiative to write to the new President of the European Defence Agency for further clarification on his part, in particular on the legal framework that...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u74	Mr President, I should like to point out to Mr Ducarme that he should be more convincing because he has been speaking for five minutes and neither the minister nor the chairman of the committee pay attention to his remarks. He'll have to keep trying to convince his partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u75	Really? [[Hilarity]] I can't believe you, Mr. Pirlot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u76	Because of a personal fact, I will answer that question anyway. Mr Ducarme, take it from me, you will not give it to me, but I have a female quality: I can multitask. So I've heard everything you've said. I agree, too. If that's not good!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u77	I also wanted to point out that, as part of the reflections that we must have in our Committee on European Defence, I have taken the liberty of gathering a number of additional information, in particular on the legal framework that applies to the European defence market and of working on the most appropriate way to ensure our industrial interests and, in doing so, our jobs (1 million). Mr President, the European Council of 25 and 26 June is an opportunity to take stock of 18 months of progress on CSDP and to try to deliver, through our Government, a political message that has some content in European defence. This is a novelty. The initiative was taken by Herman Van Rompuy in December 2012. The aim is to make a political dimension, a political leadership on the European defence agenda. Nevertheless, we must be honest. After a decade that could be described as a "dorée" under Mr Javier Solana, it is clear that Mrs Catherine Ashton did not, in my view, promote European defence and the CSDP as the tools available to her, such as the Lisbon Treaty and the way in which Mr Javier Solana had prepared the ground. Few operations have therefore been set up since the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty. They were mentioned as an option, to be then excluded in Libya and Mali, to the benefit of ad hoc actions. Eleven civilian missions and five military operations are currently deployed. But who knows? Who's talking about it? This lack of visibility is due to the fact that these missions are mainly advisory missions to reform security sectors in Ukraine, Mali and the Niger border. However, it is not enough to say that not all the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty of December 2009 have been implemented. Reference is always made to certain structural blockages, which is not the case. The Lisbon Treaty allowed us to develop permanent structured cooperation, but we did not. A launch fund is also planned to finance the initial phase of CSDP operations; EUR 50 million is envisaged and even EUR 100 million could be released at the request of France. A major disappointment is the lack of progress in mobilizing the rapid response capacity of tactical groups. The lack of political will on the part of the Member States at this level is clear. So far, we have not been able to make use of the 1,500 men planned as a priority option in the event of a response in a crisis situation. This motion for a resolution, initiated with the Open Vld and supported by the majority, intended to try, at our level, to get out of the political chill in the field of European defence and to deal more frankly with European security issues such as cyber-attacks, the situation in Iraq, Syria, Ukraine, migration issues in the Mediterranean, the absence of a state in Libya, terrorist threats in the Sahel or Nigeria or the return to speeches reminiscent of the cold war in Russia. We also know that Washington wants Europeans to invest more for their safety. Our response to this strategic equation is to establish better political follow-up through this motion for a resolution. Mr Pirlot spoke in committee but I regret that he did not participate fundamentally in the debate. On the other hand, Mr Dallemagne has tabled many high-quality amendments and even though he has been retained in another committee, his amendments have been defended. There were a lot of them. Some, of very high quality, were approved by the majority. As for you, the Socialist Party, are you no longer interested in European defence? There was a time when – I would not say we were happy together, Mr Pirlot – we worked together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u78	Ah, nostalgia!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u79	We had tabled with Mr Lacroix, who is now Walloon Budget Minister and with whom I was working on defence issues, a motion for a resolution in which we called for the strengthening of the European Defence Agency. That is what we are asking for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u80	Mr President, I am speaking for a personal fact, but I am not going to add any more. Mr Ducrame, I explained to you that we were not going to table an amendment, because we felt that the text was particularly indigent, that the initiative taken by the liberal family was good, but that we felt that you had to compromise with other parties of the majority who did not have the same opinion at all. Beyond the beautiful speeches, I give you an appointment when we decide to buy the planes. We will see if you support the economic benefits or if you simply prefer a pro-Atlantic alignment. That's all. You say that we have been happy together, and sometimes so unhappy, but you know that you must never say in love, Mr. Ducrame!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u81	Mr Pirlot, there is no question of love! Let's say we're living together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u82	It's still touching, all this: nostalgia, old couples...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u83	In this joint motion for a resolution, we called for a strengthening of the European Defence Agency. The aim was also to provide Europe with more defence capabilities for crisis management. We also discussed the implementation of new provisions of the Lisbon Treaty in terms of CSDP We also asked to learn from the lack of operability of active tactical groups in 2007. We asked to develop our capabilities by optimising the European system of financing military operations, to promote the strengthening of the defence industry, that Belgium continue to play a leading role in the continuation of the CSDP. We were asking for all of this. We haven't changed our mind. We have added a number of elements to the motion for a resolution that we are tabling today, but we had to take up these elements, which ultimately form the basis for the development of a European defence construction. Yes, we've been together, but you've been so critical of this text that the question I'm asking myself is, "Have you changed so much?" That is a pity, because in fact we find in this text elements from which we have created a compromise together. We wanted to be pragmatic in this motion for a resolution. Therefore, it is essential to enhance the visibility of the CSDP and its political leadership, develop capabilities and consolidate the European defence industries. Finally, we have a European defence strategy which dates back to 2003. We call on our Government, at next week's summit, to ensure that we raise awareness among partners, revise and update a European defence strategy. This is a very important element. We must ensure, and we call for this motion for a resolution, that the capacity of the European Defence Agency is developed in two very specific ways, even if this motion for a resolution is technical. We are calling for the European Defence Agency to be exempted from VAT by the Belgian authorities alone for joint cooperation projects, because this exemption must be maintained in the statutes of the European Defence Agency. The budget of the European Defence Agency must also be increased very clearly and it must be able to plan its work over at least three years. This is important: at this stage, it can only do so with a one-year perspective. As we know, it is important for the work to be part of a medium-term vision. Finally, when buying military equipment, European countries and the Minister of Defence have a decisive role to play. The idea is of course to take the best, without any other approach than this one. Since we are part of a common dynamic, in the context of this motion for a resolution we call for better interoperability with our European partners in terms of defence equipment for future military purchases. It is clear that the link needs to be further strengthened with our SMEs and that we must ensure that we further promote access to defence markets for our SMEs and European SMEs. We have high-performance industries in our territory, more than in the past still at the cutting edge. We state this as a clear will in this motion for a resolution: we wish to involve our companies more closely in the defence effort. Finally, another technical and financial element is extremely important if we are to give European Defence some power. We advocate for the gradual expansion of the Athena mechanism, which finances CSDP military operations. When we participate in this type of operation, the Athena Fund covers only part of the logistical costs. Each country must pay its own contribution. Therefore, one must consider that a country that is already voluntary for CSDP operations is, in this context, doubly penalized. It must contribute to common costs when it is already mobilizing its material and human resources. In addition, he must pay all the costs associated with his commitment. There is also a brake. That is also why we also ask our Prime Minister to raise the idea of European defence on behalf of our government next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u84	Mr President, I am a little embarrassed because I am going to disappoint Mr Ducrame despite the praise he has given. This is a resolution that does not eat bread and we could have abstained as we did last time for another resolution that did not eat bread, and that preceded another resolution that did not eat bread. Our political group has a great deal of interest and is very vigilant on the subject. He really wants us to speed up this construction of a European defence. This is an extremely important issue in the light of today's threats to our eastern flank and our southern flank, to global security, to the stability of a number of regions of the world. All this makes it clear to me that Europe must be able to play its part in international stability and security. It is precisely because it is an extremely important issue that I am a little disappointed by this resolution which does not bring much new in relation to the European Council. There are many elements of language that are elements of the December 2013 European Council. Today is June 2015 and we were expecting a little more from Belgium, which could indeed be a lead, a vector, a promoter of better European integration. I'll take one example. There is much talk about fostering ongoing structured collaborations. This is certainly interesting, and it is increasingly happening, but in reality we must go beyond it. In particular, there has been the appeal of Mr Juncker, who is not at all included in your resolution and who goes much further, which is much more ambitious. We had tabled an amendment on this subject, but it was not accepted. We called for a response to this appeal from the President of the Commission, who called for the realization, I quote, of "a truly integrated European defence, which alone can strengthen the capacity of the European Union, preserve the peace of the world and respond to the complex security challenges in a constrained budgetary environment." This is a strong, ambitious statement that made it politically possible to move forward on what exists today. Unfortunately, it does not seem to me that this is reflected in the majority resolution. I must also admit that some elements of language are not only a little insipid, I said, but sometimes really stick to the language of wood. I am pleased that we have finally begun to outline the security issues. It was an element that I already stressed in the discussion on our Belgian Defence. But when it is said that Russia's place in the European security architecture must be taken into account... Mr Ducrame, you have just told us that we were again in conflict, recalling the invasion of Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea. When this is reflected in a resolution of the Belgian Parliament with these rather surprising words "Russia's place in the European security architecture", I think we are in something that really comes from the language of wood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u85	Mr President, I should like to point out to Mr Dallemagne that we are referring, at recital level, to the statement by Mr Juncker to which we subscribe. His political statement is important and we pay attention to it. We note that there is probably a door that will open up more to operate a number of means, such as enhanced cooperation. We wanted to take that back. As for the European security architecture, it is clear that today Russia poses a serious problem to us. Nevertheless, it will remain in Europe. We're not getting her out of the mainland! When we talk about security architecture, we are obviously talking about the safety of everyone. While ensuring that our values, international law, human rights and the sovereignty of certain countries, particularly Ukraine, are respected, we cannot of course exclude Russia from the continent. And security will also be organized on this continent by continuing to engage in a minimum dialogue with it. In relation to this, we must also be able to look at this perspective of dialogue with respect. We will not produce anything good by producing texts exclusively going into war. We know how the government and how this majority acts with all the measures required in relation to Russia. Dialogue must keep its place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u86	Let's hear each other well. When a Parliament speaks, it must be able to speak clearly and have language that everyone understands. I'll take another example. It is said that there is a need for a security architecture that takes into account economic developments in Africa. I don't understand very well. It's not very serious, but it would have been better to have a clearer resolution. I'm not going to review all the proposals. As other colleagues have said, the resolution remains very general. More fundamentally on the substance, I find that this resolution lacks an element of commitment from Belgium. It is good to address the European Council, but what are we going to do? How will we contribute to European Defence? What are we going to produce as means, resources? The Minister of Defence is present. His office's leaks have pointed to significant ambitions. I think we could have had some elements of Belgium's ambitions through European Defence. From this point of view, however, there is no real commitment by Belgium to contribute to the construction of a true European Defence. Again, there is nothing serious about this resolution. We could have abstained, but as a result of other resolutions that are too light, this time my group wished to oppose this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u88	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u89	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Georges Dallemagne, Philippe Blanchart, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain, Dirk Van der Maelen
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u90	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1154/3) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1154/3) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an oral report. I am obliged to read it to you and not to refer to the written report. The motion for a resolution under consideration was tabled by our colleague, Mr Dallemagne. This proposal refers to the development of its motion for a resolution following the hearing of Ms Ensaf Haidar, the wife of Raif Badawi, on 27 May 2015 in the Committee on External Relations. We must also thank the chairman of the committee for having organised this hearing. Mr. Dallemagne recalled that Mr. Badawi was sentenced in first instance in 2013 to seven years' imprisonment and 600 lashes for expressing his opinion on his blog, the Liberal Saudi Network, particularly on women's rights in Saudi Arabia. Mr. Badawi was then sentenced on appeal in 2014 to ten years' imprisonment, 1,000 lashes and a fine of one million Saudi riyals, or 237,000 euros, with a ban on travel and use of the media for a period of ten years after his sentence. Mr. Dallemagne stressed that Mr. Badawi's situation is far from being an isolated case in Saudi Arabia. In light of these facts, our esteemed colleague appealed to the federal government. He called on the Federal Government to intervene to condemn Mr Badawi's situation but also to begin a more in-depth reflection on Belgium's relations with that country. On the other hand, the author of the resolution has requested that the resolution be adopted quickly, simply, ladies and gentlemen, because we are today 18 June and Ramadan begins on 18 June; however, this could be a time for clemency or grace on the part of Saudi leaders. Our colleague Mrs Capoen points out her constant attention to the situation of Mr Raif Badawi and other human rights defenders around the world. She confirmed that many other people are imprisoned in Saudi Arabia for their opinions and that the number of executions, for the first five months of 2015, is already equal to the total number of death sentences for 2014. Recalling also Saudi Arabia's wish to hold the presidency of the UN Human Rights Council for the tenth cycle of 2015-2016, Ms Capoen explained that she supported this motion for a resolution but preferred not to sign it because it dealt with the case of a specific person. Our colleague Mr Stéphane Crusnière also recalled his constant attention to the issue of human rights and freedom of expression in Saudi Arabia. He pointed out that Raif Badawi's wife had been heard by the Committee on External Relations on her initiative. Beyond Mr Badawi's particular case, he recalled the importance of freedom of expression, which must be an absolute and non-negotiable priority of Belgian diplomacy and which guarantees both freedom of religion and freedom not to believe. Mr Crusnière therefore pleaded more to talk about freedom of expression and religion and the fight against all forms of discrimination rather than to highlight one or the other group in particular in the spirit, he recalled, of Mr Huntington's thesis on the clash of cultures. For my part, I have pointed out that Mr Raif Badawi's case is symbolic of a clash of ideas that needs to be examined in a much broader way. It is a person who is a victim of having used his or her freedom of expression, which must be condemned firmly. I have therefore, ladies and gentlemen, somewhat distinguished myself from Mr Crusnière's position on Huntington's thesis, which, in my view, must not be so easily pushed back. There are many cultural visions that confront each other and one must be able to identify liberticide and anti-humanist and even anti-humanist ideas. The treatment of Mr. Badawi was such that it was found that the injuries caused did not allow him to be given additional blows until further notice. The international community has condemned this situation through the voices of various political leaders, including Amnesty International. I have concluded my speech by stressing the need for the federated entities, because of their competence in the export of arms, to be involved in the reflection on our diplomacy. Ms. Sarah Claerhout recalled that the successive convictions of Mr. Raif Badawi constituted gross violations of the right to freedom of expression. Local remedies, she recalled, are now exhausted as the Saudi Supreme Court ruled on 7 June 2015 in this case. As our colleague Sarah Claerhout pointed out, Saudi Arabia acceded to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment in 1997. However, 90 executions took place in that country in 2014 and the number of death sentences already handed down for the first five months already amounts to 90. In addition, Saudi Arabia has been elected to the UN Human Rights Council and even wishes – it is the cherry on the cake – to chair the tenth cycle of 2015-2016. Ms. Nele Lijnen stressed the emblematic character of Mr. Raif Badawi's case in Saudi Arabia, a State in which both freedom of expression and women's rights were violated. Despite the recent 100th death sentence handed down in 2015, this country has been elected to the UN Human Rights Council. Our colleague called for the adoption of this motion for a resolution in order to send a clear signal to the whole world and to call for respect for human rights, particularly in the Middle East. It hopes that this text will help to support them throughout the world and to support those who are fighting to be able to express themselves freely, even if it recognizes that a resolution has little scope. Mr. Benoit Hellings recalled that, at his hearing, Mr. Raif Badawi's wife stressed that her husband's situation might not improve with political pressure against the Saudi authorities. He therefore pointed out that Belgium was heavily dependent on Saudi Arabia not only on the sale of FN Herstal weapons, but also on energy, which prevented our country from taking a strong and determined position on respect for human rights. He also pointed to Saudi Arabia's geostrategic role in supporting Daesh, against which Belgium is fighting in Iraq and Syria. Our President, Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, stressed that the international community is adopting an ambivalent attitude towards the Islamic radicalism it is fighting in Syria and Iraq while closing its eyes on Saudi Arabia's support for radical groups. Mr. Van der Maelen then pleaded that the Committee on External Relations should renew its invitation to hear the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia, who has remained unanswered so far, and that Belgium should clearly oppose his candidacy for the presidency of the UN Human Rights Council for the tenth cycle of 2015-2016. Mr. Olivier Maingain first expressed concern that all domestic remedies were now exhausted for Mr. Raif Badawi in Saudi Arabia, following the Supreme Court decision of 7 June. He recalled that the principle of universality of human rights cannot be subject to criteria of cultural subjectivity. Calling for the coordination of all the executive powers in Belgium, Mr Maingain called for a more determined diplomatic position, which could consist, for example, of reminding the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union if a new whipping session were to be imposed on Mr Badawi. Indeed, it seems that the diplomacy of dialogue does not produce sufficient results. As Saudi Arabia was also dependent on its income from its oil resources, particularly through its relations with Belgium, he called for our country not to weaken in its democratic demands and not limit its action to media protests. Our colleague Mr Blanchart pointed out that Mr Raif Badawi's situation is not an isolated case in Saudi Arabia, where barbarism is institutionalized, as has been demonstrated by Mr Blanchart's recent announcement of the commitment of eight new executioners to carry out capital punishments. It is therefore an expanding profession, and he has called for broad support for this motion for a resolution. Our excellent colleague, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, highlights the terrible situation in Saudi Arabia in terms of respect for human rights, and women in particular – to which, however, a right to vote has recently been assigned. Freedom of expression and the exercise of a religion are also severely restricted. Indeed, apostasy is punishable by a sentence of death with sabre. In addition, only Sunism is recognized as a religion, while 15 per cent of the population is Shia and one million Christians reside in Saudi Arabia, most of whom are employed as migrant workers. Mr Flahaux stressed the paradox of Belgian-Saudi relations, since Belgium buys oil from Saudi Arabia, which uses this financial manna to support international Islamist terrorism, against which – as several members in committee have mentioned – is fighting, moreover, our country in Syria and Iraq by participating in the international coalition against Daesh. Mr Wouter De Vriendt welcomed the fact that the issue of human rights, and in particular the inhuman treatment of Mr Raif Badawi, was a priority for all political groups. He pointed out that, while this motion for a resolution deals with a particular case – that of Mr Badawi being at the origin of this approach – points 7 to 10 nevertheless make several more general requests to the government. Most of these requests are concrete and measurable. It will therefore belong, and other members including President M. Van der Maelen stressed this, in the committee to check in the short term what the government and, in particular, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs will do in this area. He also reiterated his request to hear from the Saudi Ambassador. We then heard from the minister's representative in the committee. She stated that the Minister shared the concern of the members of the Commission regarding the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia and, in particular, the application of corporal punishments such as those imposed on Mr. Raif Badawi. This is cruel corporal punishment which is prohibited under the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, to which Saudi Arabia acceded on 23 September 1997. The Government notes with relief that the application of new lashes to Mr. Badawi has been suspended since January 2015. However, the Committee is deeply concerned at the confirmation of the conviction by the Supreme Court. Following the sentencing, the European Union and its Member States immediately reiterated their strong opposition to such treatment or punishment. They called on the Saudi authorities to suspend all corporal punishment of Mr. Badawi and to consider ending the practice of flogging. In this respect, the representative of the Minister regrets that no reference is made in the development and recitals of the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague to the actions of the European Union, which is nevertheless an essential player on this subject. As with all other countries, the issue of human rights is an essential component of Belgium's bilateral relations with Saudi Arabia. During the universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia in October 2013, Belgium transmitted recommendations on freedom of expression and association to the Saudi government. On every occasion, Belgium addresses the issue of human rights in its bilateral contacts with the Saudi authorities. The particular case of Mr Raif Badawi has been addressed on several occasions by the Belgian authorities, both in Ryad and in Brussels. The Minister himself highlighted his concern on this issue in Geneva before the Human Rights Council in March 2015. He also addressed the issue in a bilateral meeting with Prince Turki Bin Mohammed bin Saud al Kabeer, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, who led the Saudi Arabian delegation during the meeting between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council at the end of May 2015. Ms. Haidar, wife of Mr. Badawi, was also received by FPS Foreign Affairs. According to the Minister's representative, Belgian diplomacy will remain mobilized on the issue of human rights in Saudi Arabia and in particular on the case of Mr. Raif Badawi. However, it should be stressed that the Belgian Government chooses its interventions on the basis of their effectiveness and that it generally favours strong but discreet diplomacy. In order to have a real impact, it is necessary to give priority to engagement and dialogue in order to prevent all doors from closing. Belgium will continue to raise the issue of human rights and the fate of Mr. Badawi in the days and weeks to come. Finally, the Minister's representative confirmed that the reflection on the position of Belgian diplomacy vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia would also be extended to the federated entities of our country. A few exchanges then took place, such as the one between Mr. Maingain and myself on the notion of universality. I would like to refer you to the text that will be published. Mr Dallemagne welcomed the fact that the committee had been able to conduct a calm and high-quality debate on this motion for a resolution concerning essential human rights values. The main concern in his text was to end the cruel treatment inflicted on Mr. Badawi, but he had not focused on that case alone. Indeed, Mr. Badawi has become an emblematic figure that personifies all the suffering of the Saudi population and the major challenges of respect for human rights and security at the international level. The motion for a resolution makes certain specific requests which can be verified and monitored. Mr Dallemagne pointed out that the effectiveness of the various initiatives will depend on the voluntarism of the government and on the action of the members of the House who will have to verify the follow-up to this motion for a resolution, as has been pointed out by several Commissioners, including MM. Dallemagne, Maingain, De Vriendt et Van der Maelen. According to Mr. Dallemagne, hope is allowed. The flogging sessions were interrupted in January 2015. They did not resume despite the recent Supreme Court decision confirming Mr. Badawi's conviction. The Supreme Court ruling was final, but Mr. Badawi could still appeal to the king for a pardon. If the Saudi authorities were to decide to resume cruel and degrading treatment of Mr. Badawi, he called for a firm response from the Belgian Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously. No amendments have been tabled. On the other hand, a technical correction was made, a difference between the French text and the Dutch text, which may not have been sufficiently precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u92	Thank you, Mr. Miller, for your oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have promised to be brief. The story Raif Badawi is now well known to us all. It has been strongly mediated and Mr Miller has just talked about it quite extensively in his report. So let me explain the position of N-VA. Some people, often people of evil will, say that N-VA does not pay attention to human rights. Nothing could be further from the truth, ladies and gentlemen. N-VA does indeed pay attention to human rights and in case Raid Badawi. Unfortunately, I don't always get through the media wall. I have already asked a number of questions, written an opinion document on them, even with colleagues from the opposition, and with Amnesty International, I have already taken action at the Saudi Embassy and for Amnesty International on social media. Unfortunately, I was prevented when Mrs Badawi was in Brussels, but I have had personal contact with her several times before and after that. And if all that is not enough, we have a Professor of Human Rights as group leader. That counts for something, too. Important in the case of Badawi is the great international attention that still exists. Canada plays a leading role in this. The Canadian Foreign Minister John Baird strongly condemned Badawi's conviction. The province of Québec, where his wife and three children live in exile, has launched an urgent procedure to offer Mr Badawi the status of immigrant for humanitarian reasons, with the need for protection. Sweden has already cancelled military cooperation agreements, and the Swedish Foreign Minister, Mrs Wallström, has taken a lot of demarches against Saudi Arabia. However, Raif Badawi is not an isolated case. His lawyer Waleed Abulkhair and numerous human rights activists are also imprisoned in Saudi Arabia. The track record of Saudi Arabia is very disturbing. More executions were already carried out in the first half of 2015 than in the whole of 2014. These executions are often also very inhumane, such as beheading with a sword in the middle of the street. Saudi Arabia has even written a vacancy for eight new executioners. You hear me correctly, ladies and gentlemen, eight executioners need them in Saudi Arabia! However, the best joke still has to come: Saudi Arabia wants to be chairman of the Human Rights Council in 2015-2016. No one here in the West can understand this. This then leads me to this resolution. As has already been mentioned, we are in agreement with the spirit of this text. We therefore support most of the issues in this resolution. However, we did not sign them. This is essentially a matter of principle. The N-VA tries to remain consistent, both in the majority and in the opposition. Given that this resolution is mainly about a personal case, we have not signed it, because we have not done so in the past either. It is difficult to put every poignant case in this world in a resolution. If we did that, the Committee on External Relations would have to adopt at least ten resolutions every day. However, this does not mean that we do not agree with this resolution. We expect a clear and strong signal from the Minister. So far we have remained a little hungry with the answers given to our questions. Especially now that Ramadan begins today, often used as a period of grace, it is now time to shout even louder and take action, hopefully this time with more effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if you have been attentive to the prowess of reading the long report of our distinguished colleague, Mr Miller, you will have found that what is to be stressed in this proposal is the very constructive, rich debate, and above all the fine unanimity that has emerged around this text of our esteemed Mr Dallemagne. I, for my part, have co-signed this text without hesitation. My group has always followed Raif Badawi closely. On 7 May 2014, at 11:00 a.m., before the media coverage of this scandal, we were unfortunately only a few to protest in front of the Saudi Embassy. It was my colleague, Stéphane Crusnière, who asked for the hearing of Mr Badawi's wife. This resolution follows on from this exchange of views and several parliamentary questions on the subject, on blasphemy in particular and on the status of women in that country. As my colleague Mr Dallemagne pointed out in committee, this text refers to Raif Badawi, a famous Saudi blogger who made so much talk about him at the beginning of January, when he had a first session of 50 lashes. The young man was sentenced on 7 May 2014 to ten years in prison, 260,000 euros in fine and 1,000 lashes and risks even the death penalty, which, as mentioned in the report, translates into beheading in Saudi Arabia. And why, ladies and gentlemen? For insulting Islam on its website. The motion for a resolution before us today makes a series of specific requests to the Belgian Government to intervene formally and quickly with the Saudi authorities in favour of Raif Badawi. The text stresses that, while the main priority is of course to intervene with the Saudi authorities in order to ensure the immediate and unconditional release of Mr. Raif Badawi, it is also a question of nullifying the conviction and the penalties imposed on him, including the ban on leaving the territory. However, while this text essentially speaks of this specific and emblematic case, it goes much further. Indeed, the Badawi case is unfortunately only the tip of the iceberg. The Saudi authorities should be called upon not only to release Mr. Badawi and his lawyer unconditionally, but also to release all other human rights defenders and prisoners of conscience unjustly convicted in Saudi Arabia. Belgium must actively support Saudi civil society organizations and individuals who defend rights and freedoms in Saudi Arabia and who are working in particular to improve the status of women in that country. Beyond the questions raised by this resolution or on this particular case, we have always placed as one of the absolute priorities of Belgian diplomacy freedom of expression within the meaning of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and, more generally, respect for fundamental freedoms, an inalienable and non-negotiable priority, whether it is to address the situation in Belgium, in Europe or around the world. Saudi Arabia, of course, does not escape this, despite the power freed by its natural resources. I am convinced that freedom of expression condemns de facto and strongly any attempt to incriminate it, particularly with regard to religious issues, such as blasphemy laws, a freedom of expression that guarantees the freedom to believe or not to believe and beyond the sacrosanct freedom of expression that we ardently defend, I would like to go back to what some have said in committee: no, under no circumstances can the universality of human rights be called into question. I am convinced that no culture, no religion, no custom can be used to legitimize violations of these rights. That is why, in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere, we must oppose and condemn as strongly as possible the use of torture or corporal punishment, as well as all human rights abuses, of LGBT people and minorities, all of whom have a more precarious status in this region of the world. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this text with force and vigour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the political divisions and our ideological, natural and healthy differences within the framework of pluralist democracies, we can and must all come together on a number of principles that guide our common existence in this country. The universality of human rights remains the fundamental principle that must guide our political action and help us achieve the common objectives, to which all the Member States of the United Nations have subscribed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u96	I ask the security to have this removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u97	They obviously don't care about the situation in Saudi Arabia. Well done, green people. There's a duty of discretion, though. I'm going on. The universality of human rights remains the fundamental principle that must guide our political action and help us achieve the common objectives to which all UN Member States have subscribed by signing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The emblematic case of Raif Badawi – I recall that he created the Free Saudi Liberals blog – obliges us, European Democrats living in a neutral and secular society, to ask us a number of questions, not all of which have a simple and obvious answer. These questions ultimately concern the universality of human rights, both the criminal nature of the facts and the punishment or punishment imposed. Among these are the most important questions: can a religion or a current of thought claim universality and declare its universal values on the pretext that they are the result of the truth of which it claims to be the sole holder? Secondly, can religious diversity with its cultural and philosophical differences, the diversity of ideals based on religious, humanitarian, atheistic or agnostic beliefs, converge towards a heritage recognized by humanity, thus universal? Finally, what is the contribution of religious communities to humanity in its quest for universal values? As a liberal, but also a Christian, I believe that the universality of rights and freedoms is not decreed. It is the result of a process of internalization that must lead each person to recognize certain values as inherent in his common humanity. Universality is not an a priori fact but a goal to be achieved by research carried out in intercultural and inter-religious dialogue. Colleagues, is Raif Badawi guilty because he is tried by a Saudi court? Is Raif Badawi facing a humiliating sentence because he is being tried by a Saudi court? To these two questions, of course, we must answer no. Raif Badawi is found guilty because he is, of course, tried by a court in Saudi Arabia, whose legality can be discussed since it is a special court. He was therefore sentenced to the penalties that had been further aggravated on appeal, but the substance of the matter concerned the legislation in force in Saudi Arabia, beyond his own case. Even if we can save him, then there will remain the case of hundreds of people who, as was said in Richard Miller's report, were already sentenced to death in 2014 and the number has already doubled in 2015. The punishment for Raif Badawi is atrocious and inhumane. There's no other word. Even Saudi Arabia realizes this because the sentences had to be done every week and for the time being they are postponed, but not abolished, except for the first one. This is a cruel corporal punishment that is done in public, which is formally prohibited by the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The paradox is that Saudi Arabia has ratified this Convention and is far from implementing it. The May 19 newspaper Le Monde reported that Saudi Arabia creates "employment" by recruiting eight executioners to carry out hand beheadings and amputations in accordance with sharia. The job offer even goes so far as to state that no specific qualifications or prior experience are required and that positions are paid at the lowest index in the public service. Where's the decency going? Mr President, our country is linked to Saudi Arabia by economic relations that are growing exponentially. On the contrary, this must not make us forget the human rights situation in that country, nor the need to combat unworthy behaviour in that country, and it must be said, the Middle Ages in fact. I stress that our economic relations cannot under any circumstances obscure human rights problems. That is why, in keeping with our tradition, our Foreign Minister denounced these situations and expressed himself very clearly in this regard, recalling our country's constant struggle for the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The particular case of Raif Badawi has been addressed on several occasions by Belgium in both Riyadh and Brussels. However, I would like to refer here to the intervention in the European Parliament by our European Parliament, Gérard Deprez, who said: "What is tragic and unbearable about the cruel treatment inflicted on Mr Badawi is that it is not an isolated case or a blunder that would be attributable to overzealous law enforcement agencies. What is tragic and unbearable is that it is a system. Worse, this system is a legal system, developed, built and implemented by the institutions of a country that we consider to be an allied country. What is tragic and unbearable in the punishment that is inflicted on Mr Badawi is not only the brutality of the blows that are inflicted on him, but that these blows are given to him for apostasy, that is, for insults to Islam, even though he was simply using the Internet to fuel a democratic debate. What is tragic and unbearable in the brutality of the punishment inflicted on Mr Badawi is that there is, in essence, no difference of nature between certain wild practices of Daesh, which I prefer to call the Nazislamists whom we bomb, and certain savage but legal practices of Saudi Arabia that we spare." I believe that this is an important point and we will not escape a deeper debate beyond the Badawi case. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself stressed his concern on this issue in Geneva before the Human Rights Council in March. He also reiterated it in a bilateral interview with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, recalled by Richard Miller earlier. We maintain a close and demanding dialogue with all States, including Saudi Arabia, on the human rights situation, in the most appropriate formats for these bilateral dialogues, but also at the United Nations through the universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council. That was pointed out earlier. What is detestable is that, on the one hand, in this Human Rights Committee itself, Saudi Arabia is for three years and, on the other hand, it has applied for its presidency. We can hope that his presence in the Human Rights Committee can be an argument for the postponement or even lifting of the sentence. The Belgian Parliament is honoured to vote unanimously on this motion for a resolution, sending Saudi Arabia a clear political message. The need to reshape the rights of litigants in Saudi Arabia, to establish freedom of the press and to abolish the special courts should also be mentioned. Of course, a very small step forward has just taken in terms of women's rights, since – theoretically, because there has not yet been a practical consequence – women will now be able to vote in Saudi Arabia. She can't drive, but she can vote. Comprehensive who can. In any case, we must continue the dialogue and continue to exert pressure in order to bring about an improvement in the situation and the release of Mr Badawi. I take this opportunity to point out that the day before yesterday, in Canada, his work was published:Cent lashes because I dared to speak freely, being a collection of the texts of his blog since 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will vote unanimously in favour of a good motion for a resolution. Parliament will have to follow up the resolution properly, in order to ensure that the government implements it. Many fine resolutions have already been adopted here, without encouraging the government to act. There is a pertinent question, which is reflected in paragraph 11 of the text: how do we deal with the Saudi regime when we express our indignation at the horror and violation of human rights in the country? Are we limiting ourselves to a public charge against Raif Badawi's torture and imprisonment or are we moving on? In any case, this is a first, cautious step, but an important step. It is good that the majority parties also fully support the proposal. What happened to Raif Badawi is no less. Only recently, on 7 June, the Supreme Court of Saudi Arabia confirmed the sentence of 10 years in prison and 1 000 lashes. For the lovers among us, it's about twenty sets of fifty lashes, with each one week in between. Actually, it's not lashes, but strokes with a light wooden stick, especially directed at the back, legs and knees, light enough not to cause fractures, but heavy enough and painful enough to cause bruising. That is the way people in Saudi Arabia are punished who have expressed their opinion freely through a blog, which has challenged the place of religion in society in Saudi Arabia in a very normal, non-violent way. However, Saudi Arabia has supported and ratified a series of international laws, which actually prohibit such torture. It concerns the ratification in 1997 of the International Convention against Torture. It is also important that it is not a single case. I believe that the motion for a resolution is right to point that out. I have already said it in committee, and I am not going to dwell on this for too long, but points 8, 9, 10 and certainly 11 broaden the text and ask the government to condemn all corporal punishment and torture and to support the organisations in Saudi Arabia that oppose such human rights violations. Saudi Arabia violates human rights in a very three-fold and systematic manner. Reports from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch speak about the imprisonment of dissidents without any form of trial. There are public beheadings and you name it. I should like to quote briefly from a report by Amnesty International, last year's 15th report. It is about unfair justice and new legislation in Saudi Arabia which equates criticism of the government, peaceful activities and forms of normal opposition with terrorism and also treats and punishes it as such. It's about assaulting people in captivity. Apparently, that's reported very frequently. It is a question of discrimination against women in every way possible. It's about the use of the death penalty and dozens of public executions. Human Rights Watch's report points out that political dissidents and human rights activists continue to be imprisoned solely for non-violent activities. There is systematic discrimination not only against women but also against religious minorities. In addition, there is little interest in minimum social standards in the treatment of nine million foreign workers. There is, I repeat, the new anti-terrorism regulation that equates normal opposition with terrorism, and there are the whips and torture, not only of Raif Badawi but also of many, many others. The report also talks about death sentences for those accused of sorcery and witchcraft. The question then, ladies and gentlemen, is how we deal with it, all the more so because we may need to look at the debate a little more broadly in the context of international policy. The elite in Saudi Arabia are major financiers of violent terrorism worldwide. Saudi Arabia finances the export of a violent form of Sunnism, wahabism. This translates into extremely violent salafism outside Saudi Arabia. There's a sectarian policy going on. At the same time, of course, we have to say that the sectarian discourse that some of us in the West are using conceals many social inequalities and a policy of power, not only because of the division between Sunnis and Shiites. We cannot deny that Saudi Arabia plays an important role in promoting and strengthening terrorism in Libya, Gaza, Yemen, Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan through IS, al Qaeda and the Taliban. We, too, are faced with terrorism. What do we do as Belgium and as Europe? In 2011, there was a democratic protest in Bahrain. Those protests were carried widely democratically, especially with the Shiite community in Bahrain. Saudi Arabia invaded Bahrain to suppress that protest. The armoured cars that were invaded in Bahrain at the time were partly of Flemish make. We're talking about 2011, barely four years ago. It seems to us that our Flemish industry is able to carry out such technology, that that technology ends up in Saudi Arabia and that the country uses that technology for violent repression in a country such as Bahrain. What are we still doing? We organize royal visits to Saudi Arabia. We do not seem to mind that either. A few months ago King Filip paid a visit to Saudi Arabia and that visit was covered by the government, i.e. the N-VA, the MR, CD&V and the Open Vld. In this way, we really legitimize a rogue regime, and it is time we stopped doing so. Let us therefore act in accordance with the spirit of this resolution and ensure that such visits are no longer possible in the future. After all, we have sent out a very cynical signal, not only with regard to human rights activists worldwide, but also with regard to other countries that violate human rights. Indeed, our message to Saudi Arabia is actually one of "do but'. It is the message that they can continue to treat Raif Badawi, and many others, as they do. When we get to the point, our King visits there and a tour is made to make as many economic deals as possible. Thirdly, trade relations. We export technology that allows Saudi Arabia to invade Bahrain and we organize royal visits. Apparently, we also do not mind the increase in trade relations between Belgium and Saudi Arabia. I have a note from the External Trade Agency on Belgium's trade relations with Saudi Arabia. Pages 5 and 6 show nice graphs on the evolution of exports to Saudi Arabia and imports from Saudi Arabia. Well, those numbers are rising. What is our Foreign Minister waiting for and what is Secretary of State De Crem waiting for to make a public statement? Our business community can also be made aware of the countries with which business is done. Such a signal seems perfectly possible to me, but so far it is still waiting for that. In the longer term, the most important point in the resolution is actually our question 11 to the Belgian Government to subject Belgian diplomatic, military, economic, commercial and energy-related relations with Saudi Arabia to a thorough reflection, given what we all see. Let us, please, do something about it. Mr van der Maelen, we can work on this in the committee that you chair. We have a shared responsibility to make this work. I am pleased that the majority parties are also aware that this is necessary and that we are not leaving behind the sharp, harsh and critical condemnation of what has happened, and still happens, with Raif Badawi, but that we must take a step further. I look forward to this discussion and hope that we can conduct it in all openness and serenity, under the banner of respect for human rights. That is, after all, a value that we share, beyond the limits of majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u99	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Dallemagne for his initiative and Mr Miller for his excellent report. I would particularly like to thank colleagues in the committee for the smooth cooperation and the rich debate we have had, which is rather exceptional, which has led to the unanimous adoption of this resolution. As far as my own position is concerned, I refer to my statement in committee. I would like to inform you that, as promised at the last committee meeting, I sent an invitation for the second time to the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to Brussels to engage in dialogue with us on this issue. Finally, I regret that we must once again hold an important debate in this plenary session in the absence of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long; the debate has already been extremely developed in committee. It took place in an extremely dignified and complete manner, as the chairman of the committee recalled. All the speeches that took place in plenary session converged on the level of analysis, which I welcome. Indeed, the resolution before us is primarily intended to save the life of a man – it is obviously important – at the request of his wife, a courageous, dignified wife who travels the planet and came to see us, thanks in particular to Mr Crusnière who asked for us to receive her. Of course, we hope to save this man's life, to ensure that he no longer suffers particularly cruel punishment and that he can be released. This man was condemned for expressing calmly and calmly on a blog ideas about freedom, human dignity. It is quite amazing that in the twenty-first century a man can be condemned to such degrading and inhuman treatment that could cost him his life, as our colleague Mrs Nele Lijnen has pointed out. I would also like to thank all the sponsors, but also the services that have enabled us to vote on this resolution today. This is a particularly emblematic case, an extremely shocking human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. Indeed, with regard to convictions, treatment and prison sentences for apostasy, homosexuality, free expression of opinions or membership of religious minorities, the situation in that country could be regarded as one of the worst in the world with regard to respect for human rights. We absolutely must review the future of our relations with this country. We are truly at a turning point, we can no longer close our eyes. Why is Saudi Arabia doing this today? Because this country has never suffered any form of sanction or reprimand from the international community! This has been going on for so many years because we have turned this country's eyes away as we knew the situation. We've closed our eyes, and it's unbearable. That has to change. I really hope that our diplomacy will finally begin this shift and that we will have an in-depth discussion, also with the federated entities. Saudi Arabia cannot remain the main partner in terms of armaments. This country threatens its people and endangers the stability and security of the world today. This must be said and repeated. That is also why I am delighted that we have this unanimity. I conclude by saying how impressed I was by Mr Badawi's wife, by the dignity and modernity of this woman, by her courage, sober, simple, but determined to free her husband. She was one of us, she was a citizen of the world. It showed how much the women and men of Saudi Arabia deserve, like us, freedom and dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u101	Mr President, what justifies the fact that there is a coalition that has mobilized to denounce the caliphate that Daesh wants to set up is what Saudi Arabia does in its internal functioning when it applies Islamic law, with a rigour worthy of a barbaric regime. We cannot today denounce the rise of the Islamic State and close our eyes to the fact that in the coalition that fights the Islamic State, Saudi Arabia practices Islamic law with a rigour that goes back to another era, at a time when barbarism dictated the behaviour of the regimes. Saudi Arabia, as we know, condemns those who dare to disobey the king. It's a ground for conviction. And as Mr Dallemagne and others have pointed out, apostasy, witchcraft, which is obviously a deeply unjust trial, and other forms of crime created to condemn freedom of expression justify the worst possible punishment. The Badawi case was no doubt indicative of these numerous executions. Unfortunately, Saudi Arabia has the sad privilege of being among the top three countries that most use the death penalty, with Iran and Iraq. It's a neighborhood that's not flattering. Simply because Saudi Arabia has not agreed to translate into domestic law, despite attempts to reform its judicial order, the international conventions it ratifies and signs. If you read, it often mentions a reservation that is "the compatibility of international conventions with Islamic law". In particular, for the Convention against All Forms of Discrimination against Women, there is an express reference to Saudi Arabia as a reservation with regard to the application of the Convention under Islamic law. It is therefore time that European diplomacy, and it is a role that we care about, assume a more firm will towards Saudi Arabia. I denounced with others the presence of our king at the funeral or at any rate at the tribute ceremonies that followed the death of King Abdullah. I have done so, not because we had to denounce a traditional attitude in diplomatic relations, but because, if we do not start gradually taking strong steps, there will be no acceptance by Saudi Arabia of an awareness of its international obligations. We must now have that will. The motion for a resolution is no doubt much more a message to our Government that it should take such action. I suggested that, if the punishment were to be again inflicted on Mr Badawi, Belgium could recall his ambassador. A collective approach of this magnitude should also be suggested to other European capitals. This is the only way to bring our allies, especially in the international coalition – led by the United States, whose privileged ties we know with Saudi Arabia – to weigh their weight with Saudi Arabia in order to put an end to these practices of another time, which are unworthy of the civilization we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u102	Mr Dewinter, you were not in the general discussion, but you are asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u103	Mr President, I deliberately did not register, but after listening to the debate I would like to make a number of comments. Firstly, I fully agree with the motion for a resolution on the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia and the situation of world-renowned blogger Raif Badawi, but this is not the case. What I want to talk about is the hypocrisy of some of the parties that I have heard quite rightly here. If Salafism is to be justified and attacked in Saudi Arabia, then we must be consistent. It is easy to adopt a resolution here without any commitment, yet another in a long line, after which the conscience has been sedated once again and we have done our duty. No human being here, and certainly not in Saudi Arabia, who is awake from such resolutions. What they are awake of are the political relations we maintain with them. Not only the political relations we maintain with them, but also the facilities that they and their regime and, above all, the religious spirit they represent, wahabism, salafism, in Europe, in Belgium, in Brussels. I find it hypocritical to vote on such a resolution today, but to have no problem when members of the royal family, together with ministers of the federal government, as was the case last year with Princess Astrid, travel there to dance to the pipe of the regime and to say how good and fantastic it is, as long as there is money to be earned in Saudi Arabia. Then I find it hypocritical to note that we tolerate that same Saudi Arabia as a partner in the coalition against ISIS, whereas Saudi Arabia ultimately represents and promotes an approach within Islam that is at least as radical, equally fanatical, as extreme and as dangerous as ISIS and Saudi Arabia behind the scenes supports terrorism, supports the terrorism of Al-Qaeda, supports wahabist and salafistic terrorism around the world. Then I find it hypocritical to adopt resolutions of this kind and make non-binding statements about Saudi Arabia, but barely a mile from here, in the Cinquantenary Park of Brussels, to tolerate the central mosque in our country, which is financed, managed and organized directly from Saudi Arabia. At the time, the ground for this was made available by the Belgian authorities to the Saudi authorities for the sake of the famous oil crisis. What the Saudis are doing in our country and throughout Europe is developing their religious tendencies, salafism, wahabism, with the support of the local authorities, who turn a blind eye when it comes to mosques such as those in the Cinquantenary Park and the many others in our country; when it comes to madrassas and Quran schools financed from Saudi Arabia. Or when it comes to the many Muslim organizations that are financed by the Saudis' oil dollars so that they can put their activities into practice here thanks to the Saudis. Apparently, that's not a problem for anyone. Well, if that's not a problem, in fact, you'd better not talk about Saudi Arabia in resolutions like this. Be consistent, do what you can really do, point out to Saudi Arabia that it cannot be a partner of ours in the fight against so-called radical Muslim extremistism if it is itself equally extremist and dangerous. Tell the Saudis that we will no longer tolerate their money keeping mosques open and organizing, and propagating their purpose here. Don't send any more trade missions to Saudi Arabia with heads-up foreign ministers, princess and princesses, kings and queens. Then your criticism will sound credible for once.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u104	Mr President, I would just like to return to a point raised by our colleague, Mr Blanchart, to which I am very keen to respond. Since the rapporteur's ungrateful role is not to go too far in explaining what he is saying, I nevertheless want to be clear about the universality of human rights. This discussion was also raised in committee by Mr Maingain. I do not, of course, question the universality of human rights. What I wanted to say is that there is a certain contradiction to say that rights are universal when they actually apply to a very small part of humanity and that there are billions of people who do not enjoy these human rights. In other words, the universality of human rights is not an achievement. It is a fight that constantly demands to be carried out and on all the plans that have been mentioned in the debate on the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. It is a fight that must be waged politically, economically, legally, diplomatically and also – that's what I meant – in terms of ideas and philosophies. Mr President, I really wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u105	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u106	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u107	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In line with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Karin Temmerman on measures to combat health damage in the event of excessive and problematic alcohol consumption and alcoholism (No. 1173/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u108	- the proposal for a resolution by Mrs Els Van Hoof on the inclusion and anchoring of the right to social protection in Belgian development cooperation policy (No. 1174/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u109	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 June 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution by Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Mrs Anne Dedry, Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Karin Temmerman on measures to combat health damage caused by alcohol abuse and alcoholism (No 1173/1);
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u110	- the motion for a resolution by Mrs Els Van Hoof to incorporate and anchor the right to social protection in Belgian development cooperation policy (No 1174/1).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u111	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u112	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law transposing Directive 2012/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain permitted uses of orphan works, No. 1151/1. The Government has requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when tabling the following draft law transposing Directive 2012/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on certain authorised uses of orphaned works, No 1151/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u113	Mr President, on urgency. It is normal for this to be included in the Rules of Procedure and used. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and we ourselves have often asked that the government at least make the effort to motivate why a draft is urgent. There is a member of the government present, I invite the government to motivate the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u114	Mr Calvo, I have already replied to you a few times. I cannot force anyone to speak here, neither the Members nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u115	Mr President, it is actually basic courtesy. It is very strange that the government could not justify the urgency of something. Then we shouldn't even vote, because she can't even justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u116	Mr President, sitting after sitting, I rise to draw the attention of all parliamentarians, the majority and the opposition, as well as yours, to these systematic requests for urgency. There is a problem because when we ask for urgency, the rights of parliamentarians and therefore of our parliamentary democracy are limited. I would like to ask all group leaders of the majority and the opposition to pay attention to this. You yourself, Mr. President, have said that you cannot compel anyone to intervene. I believe that, in your capacity as President of this House, that is, of all parliamentarians, whether they are of the majority or of the opposition, you can. You have a duty to protect our rights. I ask you, therefore, not only to systematically ask the members of the government to explain the emergency request, but also to ask the Prime Minister for an interview to stop this circus of systematic emergency demands that restrict the rights of parliamentarians. If you do not do so, if we continue to skew the rights of parliamentarians, it should not be surprising that the opposition systematically uses all the rights offered to it by the Rules of Procedure to hinder the normal conduct of sometimes important matters before this Parliament. Mr President, I ask you to intervene and use your authority to put the government at the foot of the wall with respect to the rights of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u117	I have seen Mrs Marghem and I think she will explain the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u118	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u119	Mr Dewael, this has already been applied so often that you have lost count. You did not ask for urgency once, you asked for urgency on a second draft. Liberal democracy, with which you are otherwise so cheating, is being trampled on here, and that does not seem to be a problem now. I would like at least to invite Mrs Marghem to explain the urgency on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u120	Mr. Chairman, this is an urgent request from the government. This is not the first time emergency requests have been made, but it does not mean that they are not well-founded. Since we are already on June 18 and the end of the parliamentary year is coming, the government believes that these projects are a priority because they concern health matters, on the one hand, and criminal matters, on the other, and that they must be voted on before the parliamentary holidays. Mrs Onkelinx, do not tell me that you have never used these procedures in the run-up to parliamentary holidays when you were present in executive offices. I would like things to be clear and flatly exchanged between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u121	In response to Mrs Onkelinx's remarks, I propose that you include in the agenda of the next Conference of Presidents the reasons for urgent requests. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various health provisions, No. 1161/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various provisions in the field of health, No. 1161/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u123	The documents are in, Mrs. Fonck. The Government also requested urgent treatment when applying Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 19 July 1991 on population registers, identity cards, immigration cards and residence documents and amending the Law of 8 August 1983 on the settlement of a national register of natural persons, No. 1170/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 19 July 1991 on population registers, identity cards, foreign cards and residence documents and amending the Act of 8 August 1983 on the National Register of Natural Persons, No. 1170/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u124	Mr President, you have just spoken of two documents. Was the one you mentioned earlier about pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u125	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u126	And what was the first text for which the request for an emergency was voted, earlier, by the majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u127	Public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u128	No. I'm talking about the first text.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u129	It was a directive of the European Parliament. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u130	The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 9 June 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 9 June 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 034/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 034/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put it to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Everyone has -Does he vote and check his vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote1) Yes 89 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u131	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 9 June 2015. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 9 June 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 043/1): a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Gilkinet; A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 043/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Gilkinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put it to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after having questioned, without success, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, I addressed the Prime Minister directly on the future of the fight against financial crime in our country, an important subject. However, the government, or at least some of its members, are tempted – we are trying to prevent this – to dismantle "in stoemelings", without saying it and without assuming it, an essential part in the fight against financial crime, namely the Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime (OCDEFO). This is in total contradiction to your statements, Mr. Ducrame. Indeed, with your hand on your heart, you even shout that "yes, the fight against tax fraud is important". This is in total contradiction with the comments made by members of the majority who explain to us, every time we ask them about the subject, that the fight against tax fraud is something important to them. It is also in flagrant incoherence with the general policy note of the Minister of the Interior. We are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as are the concerns of the important players in the world of justice who have expressed themselves explicitly on the subject, in an argumented, convincing way and using the media, which is not common on the part of judges, to regret and denounce this decision and its impact on their ability to prosecute and try financial crime. Will you let that happen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? If that is the case, it means that your commitments to fight fraud are not credible and that you are complicit with those who are looting the interests of the State and of all our fellow citizens. This is the only conclusion that can be drawn from a negative vote on our motion for a recommendation which explicitly calls for the government to consult, before taking action, the actors on the ground who are fighting to preserve our rule of law, that their views be taken into account and that all means be devoted to the work of central bodies, such as OECDFO, and decentralized to combat tax fraud. Thank you for your interest in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to confirm what Mr Gilkinet has said. We have talked to several people on the ground and all agreed that such a central service remains important in the fight against fiscal and financial economic crime. The answer we always get from the various ministers and also from the Prime Minister is that decentralised services will be provided with multidisciplinary teams. Firstly, my fellow Members, these decentralised services are not yet available. There's only one. Secondly, the people on the ground also say that such a central service is still essential to detect such criminal offences and, above all, to detect them efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you, who are always talking about the need for public services to work properly and efficiently, seem to no longer need these services to work efficiently. From this we can only conclude that the fight against tax and financial economic crime is not a priority for you. So be honest!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u134	Mr President, in order to further strengthen the arguments that have just been developed, beyond the OECDFO, the FCCU would also be dismantled. It is the federal police that fights cybercrime. This government has made the fight against cybercrime a priority. It is completely inconsistent, at some point, to want to make a priority and dismantle the police that deal with the fight against cybercrime. Moreover, there is also concern about the independence these services will still have if they are located at the level of the boroughs, where the actors are much closer to each other. One can really worry, particularly for OECDFO, about its independence, which is essential in the fight against financial and economic crime. If this royal decree is issued by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, it will be contrary to the law of 2013 on the optimisation of the police services, since this law makes it very clear that an operational capacity must remain at the federal level. Finally, the Minister of the Interior, in his general policy note, undertook to ensure that the fight against financial and economic crime and the fight against cybercrime remain centrally located and not devolved to the boroughs. We therefore hope that it will fulfil its commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u135	Mr President, if we had to take a single example to convince ourselves that the route taken by the government is a very bad one, it is that about ten years ago, the VAT carousels amounted to losses for the Treasury, on an annual basis, to more than EUR 1 billion. Thanks to the expertise developed within the integrated force of OECDFO, today the loss for the Treasury due to VAT carousels is estimated at a few tens of millions. It is a few tens of millions too much, but it is not the billion euros that it was about ten years ago. That's to tell you if it's important to have a service with expertise. This is all the more important because in a large financial crime case there is a little bit of everything: money laundering, corporate tax fraud, VAT fraud, fraud in social laws. This requires the availability of multi-purpose teams that work together and where the expertise required by this kind of problem can be mobilized. So I think it's a mistake. So, no doubt, on the government side, we are receptive to one police thesis rather than another. But I think that beyond the conversations, the debates, the exchanges that we can have, the risk that the government is taking is to negatively affect public finances. I believe that the government would be well advised to think about what it is going to do, because it will be irremediable to go in the direction of decentralization and lose the expertise now available in OECDFO. It's not too late, if my information is good. You can still change your mind. I would add one thing: we learn that the designations of several tax substitutes are now frozen. How do you want justice to fight organised tax fraud if it does not have specialized magistrates? That is another cause for concern. It's high time the government got back together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u136	Mr. Chairman, in a nutshell, the government's lack of listening to people on the ground is quite incomprehensible. The people on the ground complain, denounce the dismantling of the OECDFO and the lack of a concrete response from the government. That's pretty impressive. I had in an oral question to the Minister of Justice in plenary rehearsed the words of Justice Claise, who denounced, in particular, the fate of OECDFO. Obviously, this kind of appeal is not heard by the government. All of this, therefore, can only be taken into account in the militant passivity of this government in the fight against fiscal and financial crime. This passivity contrasts with its strong commitment to social beneficiaries suspected of fraud, with concrete measures to control the meters of unemployed people living together. Once again, this government shows its true face, the government of the rich against the weakest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u137	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u138	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 10 June 2015. The interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 10 June 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 050/1): A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Vanessa Matz and MM. Marcel Cheron, Jean-Marc Delizée, Laurent Devin, Benoît Dispa and David Geerts; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Inez De Coninck, Ms. Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr. Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret and Jef Van den Bergh. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 050/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Marcel Cheron, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Laurent Devin, Mr Benoît Dispa and Mr David Geerts; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Sabien Lahaye-Batteu and by Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put that motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u139	Mr President, 33 station counters will be abolished on 1 July next. This is a new charge against the public service and, above all, against its quality, mainly in the less densely populated areas. We know how things work in general: we reduce the quality of service on lines and then come to say that they are not profitable and that, in doing so, we decide to delete them. It is, in any case, the fear that this new charge raises in our home against public service, but also against rural or semi-rurality that we express through the motion that we have tabled. Why account for everything in terms of money or currency? We know that shopkeepers do other services. I am thinking in particular of the help they provide to older people, the support they provide to clients, and the role they play in terms of human relations. These aspects are also important. We also know that windows continue to be used by 57% of clients, which is far more than half. In doing so, it is an incomprehensible decision that we deeply regret. We ask the government – it is still time – to reconsider this decision leading to the closure of 33 railway stations in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u140	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u141	Yes 81 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u142	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 10 June 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 10 June 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 052/1): A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Marcel Cheron and Stefaan Van Hecke; A simple motion was tabled by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and by Messrs. Emmanuel Burton, Gilles Foret and Jef Van den Bergh. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 052/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Batteu and by Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Jef Van den Bergh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u143	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum at the express request of my group leader to speak about SNCB. Mrs Marghem, if you could convey my greetings to Mrs Galant and if you meet her, I hope you can tell her, "I'm saying what I'm saying because it's true." It's now a famous phrase, but after the file we've examined that concerned you, I'd like to talk to you about another small file, the SNCB. I'm leaving humor to talk to you about a little more dramatic things, namely the governance of SNCB. I asked the minister in committee and we were able to discuss two essential things: the governance issues that arise in this public enterprise to which many of us are attached, others a little less, and the avatars that recently accompanied the issue of governance at SNCB. There was one audit of three subsidiaries in particular. Members of the Board of Directors of SNCB and of the Boards of Directors of subsidiaries have been seriously questioned, with possible judicial follow-up which may be taken tomorrow at a major meeting of the Board of Directors of SNCB. That was the first point of the inquiry. The second point concerns an announcement by Minister Galant herself. No one forced him, in February, to talk about a plan to modernize the SNCB. Colleagues, at that time, she promised it by March. Then it was April. In April, she promised it by May. You want me to stop there? Today, we still do not have a plan to modernize SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u144	Mr Cheron, you have exhausted the two minutes for a justification of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u145	Mr President, it seemed to me so short! I have heard members of the majority insist that this modernization plan be put on the table quickly. Mr Ducrame, I hope that you will finally act and adopt this motion in order to contribute to the good governance and modernization of the SNCB which you always promise, but which you never accomplish!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u146	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u147	Yes 81 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mrs Almaci has voted no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u148	I must inform you, for the sake of the report and for your own information, that Amendment No 2 is not acceptable. 6 by Mr Vande Lanotte on Rules 1 to 8 has been withdrawn. Articles 1 to 7 have therefore been adopted. We shall vote on Amendment No 2. 1 by Mr Calvo and Mr Nollet under Rule 8. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 8. (1046/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 8. (1046/2) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 32 Yes No. 81 Non Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 81 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1046/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1046/7) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u151	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u152	Mr Dewael, I will not even mention your electoral commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u153	Mr Calvo, I really need to interrupt you. You may give an explanation of vote, but that can only be done before the final vote and not before the vote on an amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u154	Mr President, I actually wanted to say two things. I will give my explanation of vote later. Now I am simply saying that we have tabled excellent amendments, which we naturally hope will be supported by the majority of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u155	Once again for the sake of the report and for your information, I have to say that Amendment No 2 is not acceptable. 17 by Mr Vande Lanotte and Mrs Lalieux deleting Rules 1 to 4. Articles 1, 3 and 4 have therefore been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (967/10) Vote on Amendment No 21 to Article 2 by Marco Van Hees. (967/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 16 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 2. (967/8) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 2. (967/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 20 by Johan Vande Lanotte cs to insert an article 3/1 (n). (967/8) Vote on amendment No 20 by Johan Vande Lanotte cs to insert an Article 3/1 (n). (967/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 51 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long debate on it. I lost count on the way, but I have read about more than 60 hours of parliamentary debate. That can count. Honestly, I didn't think it would take so long, that the course would be so bumpy. The Minister has taken care of this with her actions. During those 60 hours we saw the most beautiful and strongest aspects of politics. Members of the majority and opposition with a different conviction have defended their beliefs with fire. I would like to remind you that we have also seen the least beautiful side of politics, with a minister who did not deserve to manage such a beautiful and important document, with falsehoods, with a lack of transparency and without a beautiful, healthy relationship with Parliament. I very much hope that this will be different at the next stages. In 2003, I was not yet there, Mr Dewael, when the purple-green government wanted to set an example with a project and ambition. They wanted a phased out and the old technology with the dominance of one French player, an energy giant, downsizing, complacent, rational and pragmatic. Today we are faced with a majority who wants to bury the modern progressive law on the core exit. That is entirely in line with the boycott and sabotage of the core exit as we have seen here in recent years. We regret that. I think our country deserves better. In the energy sector, moreover, there is a great deal of enthusiasm and entrepreneurship, just to provide those alternatives. Madam Minister, on a third point, I would like to send a clear message to you. This story isn't over. After all, we are counting on you for the covenant on Tihange 1. If you don't make it public by Monday night, we'll announce that Tuesday. There is discussion with the FANC and there is a legal translation of this covenant, so this story does not end. Our group will continue its work. We hope to find a minister who is doing a serious political job.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u158	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government, by a purely ideological and dogmatic decision, plunges our country, our fellow citizens and the entire energy sector into triple insecurity: legal insecurity, insecurity of supply and insecurity in terms of nuclear safety. There are four opinions of the Council of State and one opinion of the AFCN, all assassins as we have said and repeated. Yesterday, Madam Minister, you yourself told our colleague Olivier Maingain, about an hour minus a quarter, that the case will end before the courts. With regard to security of supply, no actor, either Elia, or AFCN, or Electrabel or yourself, Madam Minister, has dared to guarantee that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will be available this winter. With regard to insecurity in nuclear safety, the government is radically changing the safety policy compared to the previous government, by not requiring a SALTO study, i.e. external monitoring of international experts prior to the extension of Doel 1 and 2. Finally, this bill is a deception because by voting it, the government and the majority are locking our country into a brutal and totally unrealistic nuclear exit schedule. By 2025 alone, no fewer than five reactors will have to be closed. This bill is based on great hypocrisy, the government claims to want the release of nuclear power in 2025, but it is changing the timetable to make it almost impossible. We will vote with great conviction against this project, which is a deception for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u159	Mr. Speaker, this bill does not satisfy us, because it does not meet the expectations of companies with regard to the cost of energy, the expectations of companies with regard to their competitiveness and the investors to whom we must explain that our country is welcoming and dynamic in terms of energy investment and that it does not correspond to the cost of energy to consumers. They will be deceived by this bill. Nor does it correspond to security of supply as it was intended in our country in relation to energy supply, and it is an absolutely incredible break from nuclear safety in the past and the future of nuclear energy for our country. But it is also a country where there has been no debate on alternatives, whereas we could very clearly have been able to analyse with these experts the alternatives that we have proposed and that the majority have always refused in terms of interconnection, demand management and other options, such as electric generators. This project is not a solution for our country. That is why we do not support it and we do vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u160	Mr President, we must note that in this country we witnessed a coup d'état by a multinational company, GDF SUEZ Electrabel, since in 2003 a law was passed to get out of nuclear power and successive governments trusted the market. But this has not worked and today a multinational is imposing its decision against the political decisions of the representatives of the people. I think we can call this a coup. This government climbs by a cran, since it includes a minister, Marie-Christine Electrabel, who hid; Marie-Christine Electrabel who lied; Marie-Christine Electrabel who allowed a multinational to make additional profit by maintaining fully amortized power plants. It is therefore clear that, for the PTB, this bill is unacceptable. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u161	Mr President, we shall vote against the draft law. That's obvious. The draft law is designed to guarantee security of supply, but the draft will reduce that security. There is no more security of supply due to the choices made by the government. By simply not looking at real alternatives and making a legally and technically questionable choice, no one can say today, before a court's ruling, whether the two plants whose lifespan is to be extended will also be opened effectively. The result of this law is that we are certain of one thing, namely that there will be legal procedures and that those procedures will succeed. If, on the day of the adoption of a draft law, the only certainty is that there will be a process and nothing is certain, then that design has missed its target of 100 %. What we are sure of is that the draft law strengthens the monopoly of one player on the market, which we all know, and of one mode of production, namely nuclear production. As a result, there will be virtually no new investments in the coming years, no new jobs will be created in an innovative sector and we will go back to the period before 2003, when other choices were made. We saw that mistake in the 1980s. As a result, we have missed many jobs in innovative sectors. That mistake is made again. That is why we will vote against the draft law. After all, it's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u162	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (967/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (967/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u163	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Does anyone request the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1133/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1133/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 82 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1063/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1063/6) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1154/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1154/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-18-54-plenair-ip054x.u166	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 22 June 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings for the week of 22 June 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 24 June 2015, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 24 June 2015 at 2.15 p.m.
