ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u2	I remind you that the Rules determine that there are two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply, and preferably no paper is used. Preferably... you have to sing by heart, Mr. Calvo, and really by heart. The next item is questions for the Prime Minister. Tout d'abord, sur la disponibilité des prépensionnés, SWT and social consultation, which will also be answered by the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u3	I invite the Prime Minister to sit here and I give the floor to Mr Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I told you that I would come back when it comes to social consultation. This day has arrived since yesterday 10,000 workers protested to express their discontent. You've talked a lot about social consultation. Very sincerely and seriously, I wonder where you're going. In the framework of the government agreement, you announced the framework by specifying that you would not change it while opening the door to social consultation. You have invited the social partners to table agreements, which they have done. They've negotiated hard. A first agreement was reached in December, a second one now. What do we see? That you are sweeping the agreement, you are changing it, which gives rise to popular discontent, not only among trade unions but also among employers' organisations. If difficulties had been encountered in this bipartite negotiation, you could have asked for a tripartite negotiation, which you did not do. You have sent a simple letter which, moreover, requires multiple explanations. Indeed, no one understands what you mean by "adapted availability". However, we are faced with a particularly harmful negotiating climate and you are instilling it. You've got a lot of mastamores. You take ideologically radical positions and, when pressure is exerted, you suggest that you may be able to step back a bit. You say that you are open to dialogue in order, in the end, not to make it a reality. In my opinion, the summum is still to come. Indeed, when we want social peace, we pay attention when it comes to making statements. You should invite certain partners of the majority, in particular a resident of Antwerp, to pay attention to the comments they make. Social peace is not achieved by making certain statements. You should also stop responding to some of the photographic sirens. If you want a social dialogue, you must show good will, it deserves and it is earned. On the other hand, in other discussions, you are also taking other feet to social consultation, or even to some of your colleagues. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, my colleague Frédéric Daerden asked the Minister for Pensions about a discussion to be held in Kern in the morning on the second pillar of the pension. Your colleague, Mr Bacquelaine, himself said that there had been a discussion. He added that, as far as he was concerned, he could indicate that in the event of unanimous agreement by the social partners, he undertook to defend him. This means that Mr Peeters himself does not defend social agreements! Let's go to the three questions. Are you finally going to change your approach to social dialogue by really respecting the social partners, without incendiary declarations and respecting their agreements? When will you finally grant them autonomy by allowing them to discuss the issues that concern them, among other things the question of the socially unfair index jump in view of the current wage gap in Belgium? Finally, will your Government fully respect the agreements negotiated by the social partners without perverting them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I am standing here for my weekly appointment with you and I am getting bored of that. Last week, this government did not accept the social agreement of the social partners. It is du jamais vu how little respect this government has for the social partners. No respect. Minister, you come here every week and you tell me that you think social dialogue is important and that it gives it every opportunity. And then I hear Mr De Wever say outside of Parliament, no matter what the unions say, this government will do what it wants. Some also continue to give the impression that the social dialogue consists only of the trade unions. However, employers are also part of it. It is really not wise to throw the positions taken by the employers' and employees' representatives overboard. I don't understand your attitude. I expected more from you. I thought you, as a CD/Voper, would value the social dialogue more. I don't understand why you're going so far in this story. My questions are therefore very simple. What is the significance of social dialogue for this government? Should I believe the position of De Wever, who says that one can say what one wants, this government will do what it wants, or do you take social consultation seriously? Can you finally give me an update on the file of the SWTs? You know that people are still waiting for clarity and there is no clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look more closely at the content of the dossier. We can, of course, continue to talk about the importance of social dialogue and the primacy of politics, but I think the substance of the matter is much more important. This is, I believe, one of the most fundamental debates of the coming weeks and months. This is more than semantics. This is about how we can get more people to work and how we can get more people to work longer. I give one digit: in Sweden 75% of the 60-plussers work. In our country that is 23%. Only Greece does worse. So Belgium dangles at the bottom of the ranking. It's now or never, we have to make the cover now. I believe that the commitment to this policy is indeed to preserve our social welfare state and finally to promote solidarity between the different generations. What's it gonna take? It's a mentality change. We have known the Generation Pact. That was a first attempt. Under the Di Rupo government there were some age increases, which were meritorious attempts. But we're not here today. We must stop the damaging interaction between interest groups, which actually means dumping people at a much too young age. I now come to the notion of availability, Prime Minister. We need to activate the people. We must be able to achieve more tailor-made work. We must remove those things from our labour regulations which make it impossible for people to accept customization today. We need more tailor-made work. So I would like to invite the partners to allow people who have reached a certain age to create a regime where that customization can see the light of day. My questions are therefore very simple. I would like to invite the partners to stop the negativity of the past period. There is nothing as easy as spending money at taxpayers' expense. You will then see employers' and employees' organizations go hand in hand. However, Parliament represents the citizen and the taxpayer. To all those who say that the government should only act as a notary for social dialogue, I would ask that we resign and participate in the syndical elections next year. That is not my notion of parliamentary democracy! Secondly, Prime Minister, you have taken a decision with the government. That is the decision you made following the advice of the social partners. I expect that decision to be implemented now and that you will go to the Regions and that you will implement the concept of adapted availability with the Regions. For me, that's activate, activate and activate again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u8	Mr Calvo, Mr Verherstraeten has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u9	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, it is not about who gets his way or who gets the last word. One does not do control by polarizing, one does control by consulting. It's about getting people to work, keeping people working and finding jobs for those people we expect to work longer. Important steps have already been taken. In the previous legislature, we moved the ages forward. That wasn't nothing. The decreasing numbers of bridge pensioners over the past three years have been spectacular. We will continue this by the majority. These figures will continue to fall further and significantly in the coming years, just as it is necessary to keep people working. The social partners and the government have done important work over the past few weeks. I do not join those who, in this assembly at the time, accused the social partners of being unable to conclude social agreements and then, if these agreements are concluded, say that they are dictatorships. It is good what this government has done with its adapted availability, because tailored guidance is absolutely necessary. If the ten social partners, employers and workers' organisations, even those who criticized the government decision, ask for clarification, then they deserve clarification. This clarification is necessary, because the appropriate availability requires input and consultation with the regional governments, and that takes time. Even more than customized availability is the question of how we find jobs for those people we expect to work longer. The work has been wonderful, but has not yet been finished. We don't find jobs with the primacy of politics. It's the employers and the employees who have to take care of jobs. The government creates the framework, the employers take care of the jobs. We need more social consultation for more jobs and to be able to work longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u10	The employment rate of over 50s in our country is shamefully low. Apparently, some unions want to keep that employment rate so low. Otherwise I really don't see why they hold on to that SWT so cramped. It's very clear to the N-VA. Fifty-six people have access to the labour market. To deny 50+ people access to the labour market is only antisocial. Right to work is a fundamental right for everyone, including 50+. Article 23 of the Constitution also applies to over 50s. Fifty-six are also entitled to guidance to work. That is what this government has decided. That's also what's in the N-VA's program. We will all work longer to have it better. Unfortunately, some are ideologically blind. That is how I read Mr De Leeuw's statements and I hear similar statements here in the Chamber. The grandchildren do not find a job, but the grandparents are supposed to keep working. I'm sorry, but there's no connection between the two. I refer to a study by Koen Schoors and to the French-language study by the University of Liège of Jousten, Lefèbvre, Perelman and Pestieau, who state very clearly that it is not because there are fewer than 50+ people at work that there are more young people at work. On the contrary, countries with a high activity rate of over 50 are normally low youth unemployment, and countries with a low activity rate of over 50 have high youth unemployment rates. Maybe some people know better and I would like to believe that, but we are talking about scientific research: countries with a low activity rate of 50+ have a high unemployment rate. Belgium is a regrettable example of this. Our message is therefore: activate, right to work for everyone, both for young people and for over 50 people. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, whether you will implement fully and fully the agreement reached within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u11	Mr. President, Prime Minister, it is important to recall how much your government is listening, open to dialogue and respectful of social dialogue. I would simply like to point out that the Group of Ten's agreements on time credit are being respected in December, or that they are being sidelined. Here, with this government, with this majority, you have respected social consultation. You may have respected him better than others! Mrs Kitir, I hear you say that we will not respect social consultation. When you know how Mrs De Coninck turned her back on social dialogue, for example on the issue of overtime, you just think you're dreaming! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u12	A glance in the mirror, it sometimes puts consciousness back in the place! And we need to put them back somewhere because you've been responsible in the past! We hear Mr Massin telling us that we are going to sweep away the social dialogue. I propose a small quote: "Of course, it is very easy for the opposition to say 'I walk with the unions'. Everyone can do it! But in a situation as difficult as the one in our country, it is time for responsibility and not irresponsibility." These words are from Elio Di Rupo! That's the reality! These are your realities, which we ask you to look at a minimum! If we are open and if we are going to continue, with this majority and this government, to be respectful of social consultation, then we must continue to be reformers. Our social security can only be guaranteed in the long term if we work longer in our country. To answer Mr. Frédéric and ask you a question, Prime Minister, I would like you to be able to twist your neck to a lame duck, erected as a totem by the Socialist Party and the FGTB. According to them, you will trigger the conflict of generations and keep young people unemployed. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister: will extending working time for pre-pensioners be a barrier in terms of employment for younger people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u13	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the division in the government has never been so great. A government that divides can, of course, be very difficult to connect, but it is just what the citizens need. It is difficult for workers in the labour market, no one can deny that. It's hard to find a job tout court and it's hard to find a workable job, which one can also perform at a later age. I hear everyone has now discovered the expression 'workable work'. Mr Verherstraeten launched the call for a plan on workable work on the table last weekend in the Seventh Day. That call sounds unbelievable, because in terms of workable work, the results of the coalition agreement and the budget are very poor. Just a few weeks ago, you presented a budget, Mr Peeters, in which policy support to make working environments healthier and investment to make work work effective is being thoroughly cut. Minister, how should we and how should the citizens in our country believe that the government's new career model to keep employees longer in work will also be effective? Mr Peeters, you yourself asked the Group of Ten to reach an agreement and a settlement on the SWT, the former bridge pension. It did so, the employers and the trade unions came to an agreement, but that turned out to be not enough. I ask you the question with which they are sitting: what does this famous customized availability mean? There is, once again, a great deal of uncertainty about this. I call on you to clarify this at last. Are you prepared to make any adjustments and accept your responsibility in terms of social peace in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, it is finally very interesting to speak last. We were able to listen to the different interpretations of the members of the government about what happened on Friday and see your division. When one is divided, one cannot find solutions to the issues that arise. And Mr. Dewael is right in his introduction. The stakes are twofold. This is the issue of employment, employment for young people, employment for older people, on the one hand, and the future of social dialogue, on the other. At the end of your very long meeting last Friday, you managed to undermine these two issues. Indeed, you came out of a meeting with a concept, of which it would be interesting to know the author. In any case, no one has understood this, or even within your majority, namely the concept of adequate availability of pre-pensioned workers. If you could explain it to us, it would be extraordinary! But in doing so, you sent a slap to those who had negotiated this agreement: the social partners, both employers' and workers' representatives. The question that arises, Mr Prime Minister, is whether you have decided to put an end to this Belgian tradition of social consultation, the ability of workers' and employers' representatives to negotiate, to reach balanced agreements, to find solutions, to ensure social peace in our country, peace necessary for the functioning of our economy. Our impression is that you didn't want to go out with a deal. You wanted to go out with a disagreement about the work of the social partners. It was a symbolic choice. You play with the symbols. You're playing with fire. Tell us whether or not you have mourned the Belgian social concertation! If you don't, tell us what you're going to do to get the pieces back together!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I attended the trade union action in Brussels. I have met many people there, many trade unionists, and they all told me the same thing, namely that they find it a disgrace that there is no respect for the agreement of the Group of Ten. I think it is even more shameful that a party such as the N-VA, that members of the N-VA label the trade union organizations as scumbags. I simply find it irresponsible that this is happening, that there is no elementary respect for the labour organisations, which have millions of members, that the N-VA has no respect for our country. That respect is needed in the negotiations. I have just heard Mr Dewael speak about Sweden. Sweden would show that longer work has a positive effect on younger workers. It is not true, the figures are clear, between 2000 and 2006 youth unemployment in Sweden rose from 10% to 24%, a doubling, because the labour market reform took place in 2000 before the economic crisis. In Sweden, therefore, there is a clear link between youth unemployment and the need to work longer, that is obvious. Many workers experience this in the field, in the workplace. They clearly see that because they will have to work longer, no young workers can take their place in the company. Those are the facts, dear MPs of the N-VA, of Open Vld and of CD&V! My question is clear, minister. You have invented a new concept, the notion of adapted availability. Everyone wonders what this new thing is. I went to look into this case. You're talking about availability, possibly linked to longer travel, flexibility in the degree. Minister, can you guarantee me that a worker who will now take his 60-year-old pre-pension can never be called back to work in a call center with a flexible fixed-term contract schedule? Can you assure me that there will not be a levelling down of the working conditions of pre-pensioned workers? I think a lot of trade union organisations are asking this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to mention the points on which I think everyone can join. Everybody! We know in our country – we probably regret it each and every one of us – a difficult situation for older workers. All international comparisons show that, on average, the labour force participation rate among older workers is lower and sometimes much lower than elsewhere in Europe and than in other OECD countries. We all agree that protecting existing jobs is a key. But that is all the more true for the creation of jobs over the coming months and years. Of course, the government can't just decide unilaterally to create more jobs. What we can do, however, is also the intention of the four parties of the majority, which is to pursue a policy and create a context which will enable both small and medium-sized enterprises and large ones to create more jobs. That is the best guarantee for our social model. Social consultation is an important point; the government agreement is an important point. There is a government, supported by a parliamentary majority of four political parties, which sets out guidelines and decisions. There is a space for consultation, we have proved it. We have shown that we are not deaf to the appeals of the social partners. I take into account not slogans, phrases that are a little quick and sometimes a little hollow, let me say it, but facts. Before the end of the year, first decisions on sensitive topics were taken: the question of pre-pensions, the wage margin in January, the welfare envelope, the exploitation of the lowest and lowest allowances. And today there is an important discussion about availability. What did the government do last Friday? It has taken a clear decision which demonstrates both that we listen and hear the concerns of the social partners, but at the same time we also take on our responsibilities. We have decided to put the points on the i of the government agreement. Two important elements have been adapted to the agreement reached within the social partners. On the one hand, we did not want to take into account the passive availability that had been envisaged, nor did we want to take into account the active availability that had been envisaged in the government agreement. Adapted availability is a clear political choice for a third way, a specific guidance. After all, we are convinced that the category in question consists of workers for whom it is necessary, useful and intelligent to take specific measures. Let me illustrate this by means of a concrete example. For this category of workers, we believe, for example, that the question of experience and skills is an element that perhaps needs to be taken more into account than the question of diploma, which is probably a more relevant criterion for a younger worker. This is a very concrete example of what can be met with common sense to ensure that there is an adaptation to the reality of the labour market. Finally, we recalled: 65 years in 2019 with exceptions, which have been validated. Finally, I have listened carefully but I also know the history of social dialogue in our country. I note that the current government has done nothing but what another government has done. In 2012, not so long ago, but the memory seems to be short for some in this House, in the same way, on important issues such as the labour market or the difficult pre-pension trades, a government took decisions that differed from the agreement of the social partners. My farde is filled with statements by union delegates who, in the same way, shouted at the time saying that social agreements were not being respected. So there's a government that makes decisions. We listen carefully to the social partners and, in the context of the legal implementation of our agreements, we will, of course, consult the Regions and, secondly, engage in a dialogue to give the relevant information to all the actors involved in the social dialogue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had questions here over the past few weeks about the situation with regard to the employees of Ford Genk in SWT. I've had questions here about what happened to Arcelor's employees. From the agreement we have reached, I would like to reiterate explicitly that all persons who entered SWT before 1 January 2015 should not be active or passively available. That's a solution for the employees of Ford Genk. All persons made redundant before 31 December 2014 should be neither active nor passively available. All persons made redundant under restructuring announced before 9 October 2014 continue to be covered by the old availability regime. All persons enjoying a medical SWT shall be exempted from the requirement of availability. In short, this has clearly answered the questions put by Mrs Kitir and others and the questions put by the workers whom they have rightly defended here. We have, of course, added a number of new elements. First of all, we're talking about being customized available. Letters have already been removed and contacts have already been made to discuss these terms with the Regional Ministers of Work and the competent labour bodies such as VDAB, Forem and Actiris. We need a normative framework and we want to be absolutely sure that what we write in it is not only an additional element for the SWTs in the future, for better individual guidance, as the Prime Minister said, but more transparency and this in all clarity with the regions. Those meetings will take place next week and the weeks after. We will explain to the Group of Ten, as he asks in his latest letter. As far as evaluations are concerned, of course, the system needs to be evaluated. Of course, we must ensure that decisions in the field are well received. We have provided for two evaluations in our agreement. The letter from the Group of Ten asks whether we can organise the evaluations in any other way. We will look at this in the federal government and give text and explanation to the Group of Ten. It was rightly stressed here: the bottomline is that we give these workers workable jobs. We cannot solve this challenge from a political point of view. We must respond to this challenge together with the employers and with the workers' organisations. From this conviction, social dialogue is essential for a solution. That's what we're going for. We will ensure proper consultation over the next few weeks and months. After all, this is the bottom line: for everyone, for the young, and certainly for the elderly, who rightly want to continue to work. But then there must also be workable work available on the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u18	Prime Minister, you will have no doubt that your answers seem to me to be totally unsatisfactory. You have not set any frames for the adapted availability. Nothing is defined. You're prime minister, not managing director of a Brico Center, please! The mask fell: where is social liberalism? Social dialogue no longer exists. Your best ally is no longer the CD&V, but the N-VA! On the CD&V, I'd say, be careful! I take up words spoken by CCS activists yesterday: it is the government of shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u19	Mr President, first of all, I would like to address Mr Ducarme and put something straight. I don't have to take it from you that you say that sp.a doesn't appreciate the social dialogue or has never respected it. Show me the file? The then Minister of Work has solved the issue of the unitary statute, which was blocked for 40 years, together with the social partners. I do not have to accept that you say that the social partners do not appreciate it! Minister, I am pleased that you have found a solution to my question which I have asked you. What I regret, however, is that this question has given rise to all this polemics. People also hear this because Open Vld and the CD&V blow hot and cold. The N-VA is the only one who says clearly that it does not want this. People at home don't understand this. You say that you have found a solution, but they read in the newspaper and hear that the social agreement will be implemented. If you can come here and say that you have found a solution, run them out and offer people a solution! You're all talking about workable work here. It is true that politics is not the one that can create work, but it is the policy that is going to force people to find jobs that the politicians themselves say are not there. Where are those jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the passage of the Socialist Party into successive governments has, of course, been very short-lived. Far too short to be dealt with. We have taken decisions together in the government which had not been consulted with the social partners. The pay freeze was decreed by politics. This was a good measure, and I will continue to defend it to this day. So don't lose sight of what you worshiped yesterday. I do not agree with that defensive, defeatist attitude towards the concept of labour. I would point out that a great deal of work can be made visible in our country today, but that we are relying on the cost of wages and a number of rigidities which have been created by the social partners in the past. It's those walls we have to tear down. In fact, we must discuss what is actually an appropriate relationship. Mr Prime Minister, we must indeed look not only at diplomas, but also at expertise and experience. We must open up this concept. I appeal to the creativity of the social partners to do so. We must work on this together with the Regions. However, let us stop maintaining systems that ultimately cost more money to leave people at home than systems to activate people and make them more socially relevant. What is the most important thing: to give people at home with benefits or to give people a new sense of work that can make them feel socially relevant and happy? That is the challenge! The government has chosen this line and we are going to support you for it, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u21	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the rate of activity of over 50% has increased by 10% over the last six years, and we are continuing along this path. Prime Minister, I have noted that you will give clarification to the social partners and will discuss the evaluation with them. In the legal implementation of the agreement, you will consult the Regions and the Group of Ten. That's very important. Our group will continue to emphasise workable work day after day. We need a plan for workable work in consultation with the Regions and in consultation with the social partners. It is about work and family, about stress at work and about training. We may grow older, but our competence must not grow older. It is also about the competitiveness of companies. We say yes to activation, but without jobs, no activation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u22	Mr President, I hear here a quote of studies on Sweden, which I like very much. Mr Hedebouw, why don't you mention studies on Belgium? After all, they do exist. Ik vernoem The Case of Belgium. In that study it is very clear that if there are fewer than 50 people at work, this does not mean that there would be more young people at work. I therefore ask you to quote further studies on Belgium and not on Sweden. Mrs. Temmerman, your party is asking where the jobs are going. Well, I can answer you that you can look for yourself. I'm sure you know, because you destroyed the jobs. Not us, but you've been in power for so many years. Mr President, the N-VA is a community party. We are not a liberal and certainly not a socialist party. Our community party stands for solidarity. It's about solidarity between generations. We want jobs for young and old, and that's what our government is doing. For Mrs Temmerman, that is just so painful, but I do realize that. Solidarity also means that the social partners no longer push the 50+ people out of the labour market. For us, two things are important: firstly, that the government should fully implement the agreement on SWT and, secondly, that we should ask the social partners and, in particular, employers to finally start workable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u23	Mrs. Kitir, you're a very idealist, and it feels. But when you're a member of a political party, you have to take on the past. You have to take responsibility for what your minister has done. And, forgive me for repeating this: the sp.a. and the minister, Mrs De Coninck, have turned their backs on the social consultation on the abolition of the trial period, on the obligation of traineeship for economic unemployment. It's a fact! I'm not saying it wasn't complicated. You have to take responsibility for what you are. We have to take responsibility for his past actions. This makes it possible not to blame others for mistakes that are less serious than those you may have committed in the past. Beyond the polemic, the press will check my statements and confirm them. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kitir, about that. For the rest, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Above all, thank you for keeping the course, for continuing to listen to it, respectful as we wish of social consultation, but remaining in reform action. Reform! We need to work longer. The participation rate of 60-64-year-olds must exceed 17%. We have no choice; it's just impayable! Not to reform today is to condemn the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make a habit of it, but in this case I think Mrs De Coninck is entitled to a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u25	Mr President, I do not normally respond to that, but this week it is already the fifth or sixth time that things are being said in my name, namely the training to be organized during periods of economic unemployment. I do not think there is sufficient knowledge of the file. It is said that the Minister, or the Government, imposed it unilaterally. That's not true. It was submitted for the first time to the management committee of the RVA and refused because it was considered too strict. We then made a second attempt, with another scenario. This was discussed in the National Labour Council where the social partners sit together. They gave positive advice. It was not approved because it did not hit Parliament in time anymore. Saying that it was unilaterally imposed by the Minister in that situation is a lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u26	Mr President, Ministers, thank you for your replies. I regret the way in which this debate is being conducted in the face of the people who are already having a very difficult time. I don't think that's gonna do them any good. It's good that the breach of contract is off the job. It has caused unnecessary unrest among the people who have already joined the SWT system. For all other people I would like to say that chasing people is still not a guarantee to help them effectively get a job. What is a guarantee is job creation. This job creation will have to be more than the ten thousand additional jobs proposed by the Planning Bureau this legislature. Another guarantee to help people get a job is to make sure it's workable work. Apart from having discovered that term, however, it remains deafeningly silent in that respect. What is more, there is a cut in measures that make this possible and in the support that the government can provide in this area. In the policy paper of Minister Peeters, it really does not go beyond matters relating to ergonomics. That is something other than the workable work we are talking about here. People deserve more jobs and custom jobs. I suggest you do that instead of just chasing people for jobs that aren't there and for workable work that isn't there. Finally, the primacy of politics is not the same as the dictatorship of politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u27	Mr President, Mr Michel, Mr Peeters, you are talking about creating or maintaining jobs for seniors and social consultation, but you are asking exactly the opposite of what you are saying. That's the problem! Reforms are needed and possible in consultation with the social partners to improve the careers of older people, to share working time, to create suitable jobs rather than to invent a suitable availability. Your government, Prime Minister, is the government of disorder, injustice and inefficiency. The disorder was evident during this session by hearing the differences of view between the various members of the government, but it is also on the street of your fault! Unfairness is that towards the most fragile of our society that is made even more fragile by your choices, while you are unable to fight, for example, against the tax evasion implemented by the powerful. The inefficiency is obvious: where are the jobs you are talking about? How are you going to create them? You have not told us, and that is not in your government agreement, nor in the projects before us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u28	Mr President, ministers, I asked you a simple question. Can a person leaving for pre-pension at age 60 be guaranteed that he or she does not have to accept work that will be of less quality than the work he or she has left? I did not receive an answer to this simple question. The reason is clear: you can't give me that guarantee! That is why we have to say it politically: introducing appropriate research leads in fact to the end of the pre-pension system! No one in Belgium will accept leaving a job without a guarantee that it will not be obliged by the regional services to accept a lower quality job. The political step you have taken is the removal of the pre-pension! I agree that the real debate is a social debate. We actually have – and this is a good thing – more and more elders who are today in our workless society because they enjoy a well-deserved rest. Between 1960 and today, the wealth produced in our country has increased fourfold! I ask the political question: can we not make a political choice and take some of this wealth produced to give it to our elders, to give them a deserved rest rather than to push them to look for work and to put them in competition with our young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, your budgetary control is already showing a deficit of around 800 million in social security. In fact, no one can be surprised because your budget tout court was already based on loose sand. The assessment of revenue and expenditure was already incorrect. After all, you have reckoned richly on the basis of an economic growth which is not there and a creation of jobs which I refer to the previous debate that you cannot live up to. You have not yet taken any measures to help create jobs. Prime Minister, your pruning to grow is not helping. It has become prune to bleed today. We have warned you of this for a very long time. How are you gonna fix that? Let us be clear: further savings in social policy cannot be made for us. We heard statements about this a month ago. I therefore hope that CD&V will make it happen this time during the forthcoming budget talks. Prime Minister, we need jobs. One of the possibilities is indeed to reduce the cost of wages and to finance it through a fair contribution from large assets. If we are to keep our social security affordable and high quality in the future, you must have the courage to combine budgetary control and a tax shift, a burden on the great capabilities. Unfortunately, your shadow Prime Minister has already announced that budgetary control and the tax shift are two separate issues that are separate from each other. The tax shift would be discussed after budgetary control. I have two questions. Firstly, will you not effectively cut back on social security as your coalition partner also asks? Secondly, will you finally show the courage to go, contrary to your shadow Prime Minister, to a tax shift, a tax shift that, together with your budgetary control, can produce proper control? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget deficit forecasts just announced by the Social Security Management Committee confirm what we said in the government statement and in the first budget debate. Your austerity policy – because it is an austerity policy you are pursuing – is weakening the country's economic growth. When we read the justification given by the Social Security Management Committee for the loss of revenue, the first cause, if not the only cause, is the small increase in the wage bill, which is below the average in recent years. Your economic choices weigh on purchasing power, both by increasing taxation – whatever you have said so far – and also by refusing wage indexation, without compensation for removing indexation on certain types of expenses or costs of living, and by refusing to admit a standard of normal wage growth, while wise economists, especially those who have been criticizing certain choices imposed by the European Union for a long time, say that this is a bad choice for Europe. I don't just think of Thomas Piketty. I am also thinking of Paul Krugman, Nobel Prize in Economics. Because you're part of this austerity policy logic that attacks employees' purchasing power, you're falling into budget forecasts that don't match your forecasts. Irrespective of the fact that you should have known at the time you drew up your budget and that once again you announced completely incorrect figures, you must rest essentially on the question of how we support growth. Today, support for economic growth in Europe depends primarily on purchasing power. Much more than just the criterion of competitiveness. Gradually, economists are inviting us to reinvest in purchasing power to support the domestic demand that is essential for the European Union. Prime Minister, I ask you to review your economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u31	Prime Minister, I will try to reassure you. At noon, you tried to pass on our questions to your colleague on the pretext that they would be of a technical nature. But those that my colleague Calvo and I have put forward are fundamentally political. They are indeed about the very orientations of your majority. Yesterday came out the information that the social security budget was slipping: EUR 1.3 billion or more. That is 800 million more than the projected deficit. We got to know you. In this kind of situation, your software works as follows: "There is a deficit, so we're going to cut spending." It's easy and consistent in your head. Yet, it is totally counterproductive. If the reasons for the increase in the deficit are more detailed, three main items are identified. This is first of all the number of people who lose their jobs. This has a negative impact on unemployment expenditure, about EUR 125 million. Secondly, it is linked to the loss of purchasing power. The result is a decrease in VAT revenue for around EUR 200 million. Finally, there is a decrease in the revenue from social contributions. It is not the result of a shift tax, but of the decrease in the number of jobs. We come here at 750 million euros. Each of these three elements is intrinsically related to the austerity policies that were undertaken under the Di Rupo government and that you amplify. I know it's not you, except your party was in that government. You also pushed yours into this wage freeze. Other elements also play, but time is running out. The wage freeze, which will be aggravated by index jumps, has a very strong impact on social security revenues, as well as the lack of employment policies and prospects. When are you going to change software and open the way for alternative financing of social security, as environmentalists have had the audacity to propose it in their alternative budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, give me the phrase, but with this deficit of security, there's like saying "a ball in the soup," "a ball in your soup," in your liberal magic potion. Indeed, you are pursuing a policy of austerity at the expense of the workers and which always enriches the employers. And you tell us that there is a return effect, according to which, by magic, we will get more jobs, more growth, etc. What do we see? May this return effect be returned to you in full form today! Indeed, the current deficit in the ECU reflects exactly the austerity policy: fewer social contributions, because workers' wages are reduced, less VAT, because workers can no longer consume. It's not your friends the rich who consume, it's the workers who consume and if you cut their wages, it's over for them! They will no longer be able to consume, they will consume less! No more unemployed people, this is the result of your policy indeed! This social security, Prime Minister, excuse me for telling you, it is not your social security or that of the government, it is the social security of workers. They built social security, Prime Minister! And you're busy dismantling this social security. The workers will not let you destroy their instrument of solidarity. They don't want your selfish society for the rich, Prime Minister. You finally drag us into a downward spiral, ever lower. Less wages means less consumption, less consumption means less activity, less activity means less wages, less wages means less consumption, etc. I can sue if you haven't figured it out yet. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to question your policy, but I will only take one aspect of this generally indigestible policy: index jump. This is exactly what will further increase the security deficit. Are you going to question that index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank you for having been able, together with us, to convince the Prime Minister to answer this question. Apparently, that wasn't obvious. So I really want to thank you for doing your job as President of the Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, as Mr Nollet rightly said, it is incomprehensible that you did not wish to answer such a question, which deals with the key objectives of your government policy. (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u34	[[...]] (...): : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u35	Mr Calvo, and only Mr Calvo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u36	Mr Prime Minister, you did not want to answer that question, of which you are aware. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That is not what we are talking about today. That's not the priority. If we look at the core objectives of this government, we can endorse two important objectives. Firstly, put the budget in order and not simply transfer the invoice to future generations. I agree with that objective. Secondly, it was just about getting jobs. Job creation is placed very centrally. I also agree with that objective. However, Prime Minister, we must be increasingly aware that the recipes for achieving these objectives are not working. Let me give you two examples. Firstly, a report from the Planning Bureau was published a few weeks ago which made it clear that no 200 000, 80 000 or 60 000 jobs would be created, but only 10 000 additional jobs in the end. Mr Dewael, you have said that you want to give people a job, not just a benefit. I agree with that, which is why we call for the job report to be taken and drawn conclusions from it. Secondly, in relation to the key objectives of your policy, I read in the newspaper today that the additional deficit in social security amounts to EUR 1 billion. That's another proof that those prescriptions don't work. Here is the problem: there is a deficit, savings are being saved, savings are being made to create new deficits, and these new deficits need to save more. That's the way it goes. So we are in a vicious circle or a street without an end. Hence our call, from Mr Nollet and myself, and for a long time from our group, to change the recipe. The objectives are legitimate, but the recipes do not work. This week, ladies and gentlemen, I note with great dissatisfaction that budgetary control is being shifted a little and is being disconnected from the tax shift. I come to my questions, Prime Minister. I think it's time for a new recipe. It is time for a mix of smart savings and investments to give oxygen to the economy, and to generate fair income. The two wake-up calls, namely the Planbureau report and the Social Security report, must move your government towards budgetary control. When's that gonna happen? Are you willing to adjust and change the recipe? After all, your recipe is not working today, and we can see that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return for a few moments to the procedure. Truth has its rights. Indeed, it is not enough to repeat a lie in French and Dutch for the latter to become a reality. At first, the questions were about social security figures, which is why I suggested that the minister answer them. Subsequently, the President informed me that it was also about taxation, economic policy and tax shift. I then immediately agreed to answer the questions on the various subjects raised. Truth has its rights. I thank you for recognizing him and for stopping showing this bad faith that does not honor you! What are the facts? What are the numbers? A few days ago we found that the figures for social security are worse than the initial estimates. In that context, you are right and you have explained why the figures are worse. We have indeed seen reductions in revenue and increases in expenditure. We are talking here about one of the parameters which must be taken into account in the future report of the Monitoring Committee on the social security of employed persons. This is a very important parameter. The calculators are still working, as we should be receiving the entire report of the monitoring committee in the course of next week. At that time, we will know the starting point, after assessing all the parameters of expenditure and revenue, including social security, from which we will start the budget work. Everyone here knows well that there will be other parameters with sometimes good news and sometimes bad news. What counts is the addition of good and bad news to have a figure which is the starting point for budgetary control. This is a first element that I wanted to explain soberly to those who are obviously not experienced enough to measure it. I confirm, as I did last week, that it is the government's intention to introduce a tax shift, which should have its first effects in the period 2015-2016. It is true that there are too many tax and parafiscal burdens on labour today. There are too many burdens for working people with low wages and middle wages and for those who create jobs. That's our problem, that's our weakness. There lies the fragility in our country. In our political approach, we make a very clear choice to take pertinent measures in the next few weeks and months during this legislature. That's an obsession for us. It is not easy, but we must do so and organise it properly. In order to do so, we must first carry out a budgetary check in order to control the state of affairs at the financial level in 2015. Then we have to work towards a tax shift. We all know in this House that a shift tax means having as a priority to reduce the burden on work, on people who work and who create work. Once this objective has been defined, we must work in the way, looking at other possible sources of income, so that we can meet our commitments at European level, control our deficit and therefore our debt. It is not easy, it is necessary to do a lot at the same time: to support economic recovery, the revival of purchasing power, and at the same time to be in order from the point of view of public finances. That is the responsibility. Finally, I conclude with a word, with a smile. It is not because there are two very friendly PTB Members in this House that the majority chose to run behind the PTB. Clearly, an increasingly important part of the opposition chooses to run down behind the PTB. It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u38	Mr Prime Minister, as usual, we have again received no answers to our very clear questions, except that you say that you will be chasing your shadow Prime Minister. You actually confirmed that. You say we don't know who to run, but you do it all the time. You have said that again. Furthermore, I am actually pleased, because you acknowledge that there is a problem. That is the beginning of the solution and the beginning of wisdom. Your pruning to grow does not help, but you will continue to prune. That's what I understand. You are not prepared to apply fair taxation. You are not prepared to resolve the problems of social security and its financing fairly. My fear, Prime Minister, is that I am addressing my fellow Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, that it will again end up on the back of families, the working people, those who contribute and our social system. That will be the result of budgetary control. That's what I predict.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u39	Prime Minister, I can understand that when you are put in trouble by a revelation, which severely punishes some of your economic political choices, you have as the only argument to say "the terrifying of the PTB". All right! It's your choice! But more fundamentally, the report of the National Bank said how much your choice of economic policy, particularly with regard to the reduction of the amount of social security contributions, which was not targeted primarily at low wages, that this choice is not the most appropriate lever for job creation. Your government has an obsession with job creation, of course, but you have not used the right economic policy instruments. This is what is at stake and is reflected in the foreseeable social security deficit; it is the anemia of economic policy that you are leading. That is what is stigmatized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u40	Prime Minister, your Budget Minister has just made a big statement. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to read it: "The figures I have just seen on the social security deficit are not figures I expected". This statement will greatly help us! But not to hide anything from you, it is not a computational problem, but a fundamental orientation problem. Your political choice of austerity is the one that is fundamentally problematic here. You are ideally trying to escape the stakes, to escape the answers in connection with this deficit today. But austerity is a vicious circle. As a first step, you see today that there is a problem with the social security budget. In a second stage, you cut spending and in a third stage, you see that this measure increases the social security deficit even further. It is this vicious circle that must be broken. It's important to get out of here! When are you going to understand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u41	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you are probably right. A number of members of the opposition realize today that the PTB was right and I do not despair to convince you one day, perhaps not immediately. As you tell us that there are too many burdens on those who create jobs, I will tell you that there are too many reductions in the burden on those who do not create jobs. If you give them gifts, these bosses don't create jobs! Today we have a social security deficit of 800 million. Gifts offered each year fill this gap ten times. Just take 10% of these gifts and you'll be able to finance the deficit. Another even more challenging figure is that of the richest group of the population: 3%. The wealth of the very rich of our country is a thousand times the deficit we are discussing today. It's not a tax shift, it's a wealth shift. Not a tax shift that takes place at the expense of workers, but a shift in wealth that would finance pensions and the creation of public jobs rather than gifts that do not create jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u42	Thank you, Prime Minister, for answering the question after a long time. I did miss a prime minister, given the answer. Today, we read the annoying report, in financial terms and above all in social terms, that our social security is a billion euros short. Our prime minister, the captain of this country, doesn't get any further than a few stitches and political politicians. That is extremely disappointing and, above all, disturbing. Mistake, Prime Minister, is not a bad thing, but it is a real problem to continue to be mistaken and to do so with the smile, stubborn and even bitchy. We have a political and a social problem. Your recipes aren't working. How long will you wait to get things straightened out? The worst thing is that you want to drive it even further; you want to make it worse. The draft law on index jump is coming up soon. This means once again undermining the financing of social security and purchasing power, which makes everything even worse. However, you drive it even further. Indeed, contrary to what Minister Van Overtveldt said a few weeks ago, namely to discuss budgetary control and the tax shift together in March, you want to cut it and separate one from the other and put the tax shift on the long track. A few months ago, we proposed an alternative budget. We called for the recipe to be adjusted and finally for a smart mix, with, of course, savings, but then smart savings, investments and just income. If you do not, you will continue to walk head-on against the wall and continue to face a vicious circle of savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. Prime Minister, members of the government took part last Sunday in the Feast of Flemish Song. Great good done to them! What interests me is your position. What interests me is your reaction. In fact, you've reacted like La Fontaine. You know the fable of this last "Cicada and Ant". "You were singing? I'm very comfortable with it. Well! Dance now." In other words, friends of the majority, keep singing with their throats deployed and you opposition people, circulate, there is nothing to see! I like the fables of La Fontaine. But I am not a member of the House of Representatives to hear a fable. I am to hear a political speech. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. First, how long will you tolerate these incarnations? Secondly, for how long are you going to cover words that are obviously anti-Belgian, which, by the way, do not surprise me, but displeasure a significant part of public opinion? Thirdly, for how long are you going to say words of appeasement that unfortunately do not deceive anyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u44	Mr President, Mr Delperée, to express myself in the manner of La Fontaine, I will reply that this song is probably not worth a cheese. What are the facts? Representatives of various Dutch-speaking political parties including the N-VA were present at the Zangfeest, Lotto Arena in Antwerp. About 5,000 people participated. Mr Jambon and Mr Vandeput did not represent the government on that occasion. They did not make a statement. Nor have they been particularly highlighted. The facts are extremely simple, Mr. Delperee. MM. Jambon and Vandeput are neither members of the Socialist Party nor of the CDH. Maybe you could have observed it! I repeat, the facts are extremely simple. In different parts of the world, as in Europe, there are autonomous parties, nationalist parties, sovereignist parties and separatist parties. That's an opinion. It's not a crime. On the other hand, I would very simply and soberly like to take the example of a person who has counted in the history of the country, Mr Schiltz, a member of a government with which your party was present in the majority. He attended the same party in the same way without representing the government either. Similarly, when my predecessor campaigned to support political leaders in other countries in Europe, he also did not represent the government he led at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u45	Prime Minister, believe me, I am sensitive to freedom of expression. "I'm Charlie" like many others. Let everyone express themselves in the sense that they want, the problem is not there! The problem is whether a member of your government should not be at a minimum of reserve and discretion and should not attend a certain number of meetings. That's the question I asked you. I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, intra-family violence is seen by the police as less priority, which the P Committee, which supervises the police services, concludes. In Wallonia as well as in Flanders, attention to intra-family violence has fallen in the zonal security plans, and this while daily casualties are also fatal. The figures show that the perpetrators of intra-family violence account for 75% of the cases of the partner or the ex-partner. The 2013 figures show that there are 109 reports of partner violence every day and three deaths every week due to partner violence. Those are staggering numbers. There are almost 40 000 reports a year. Moreover, this figure only shows the tip of the iceberg. Many people do not dare to take the step to aid or to the police. It is estimated that 90% is not working. If only 10 % is reported, we are in very bad shape. I come to my questions. Firstly, Minister, you want to draw up a new National Security Plan for next year. You have already announced in your policy letter that you want to reduce the number of priorities. I can understand that. But can you guarantee that the priority for intra-family violence will certainly be included in your National Security Plan? Secondly, will you also ensure that police zonal security plans continue to pay sufficient attention to this problem and that intra-family violence will be re-integrated as a priority? Thirdly, what will you do about police training? Will you continue to guarantee that attention will continue to be paid to the training of the police force? Fourthly and finally, what about the Victim Treatment Service? Will you ensure that this service, which is committed to the care of victims, continues to receive adequate attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, I would like to thank you for this question, which is serious and also deals with a serious problem. First of all, I would like to remind you that the coalition agreement contains a clear reference to combating intra-family violence. In criminal policy, this is a priority which must be given particular attention. This concerns both the punishment and the treatment of the perpetrators of intra-family violence. Before we come to a National Security Plan, we must first draw up a framework note on Integral Security. Those jobs are now in progress. It is in full swing and should be completed by the end of the year. It is premature to draw any conclusions now, but I can tell you that both the services of the federal police and my own services of the Interior are participating in the drafting of this framework paper. You know that fighting intra-family violence is part of the coalition agreement. Something in my mind says that there will also be sufficient attention paid to it in that framework paper. I come to your question about the local areas. I do not think that additional initiatives are really necessary. The Department of Prevention and Security of the FPS Home Affairs has made a cross-cutting analysis of all local security plans. They compared them to the previous safety plans. Contrary to the figures in the press, we come up with something similar. There are now 66 and in the last round there were 65. There is therefore no decline in this respect. When police zones point out a number of cycles of intra-family violence as a priority, this should normally also be included in the functioning of police zones. I know a lot of areas that act like that and include that priority in the regular operation. The figures are one thing, and in reality many zones include them in their operation. As far as police training is concerned, I can confirm that the basic training of the police has for some time already included modules that specifically address aid and assistance to victims of violence, and more specifically violence against women. There are also several modules of continuing training specifically zooming in on helping victims of intra-family and sexual violence. Mr President, I would like to reply to the last question. The question was whether this meant a dismantling of the Victim Treatment Service. Absolutely not! The law on the police officer states in Article 46 that victim treatment is an integral part of the police assignments. In addition to this legal obligation under each police officer, victim treatment is one of the basic functions of local police. They also receive staff subsidies for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u48	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you have indicated your intention to make the fight against intra-family violence a priority once again. You will also insist on it in your framework note, which will subsequently lead to the new National Security Plan. I am also pleased that you indicate that the Victim's Treatment Service will certainly not be phased out. As I have just said, the figures we now know, 109 cases a day and three deaths a week, are just the tip of the iceberg. It is therefore absolutely necessary not only to continue what we are doing now, but also to use it more strongly. We need to strengthen our efforts to raise awareness of the police force, the services we provide and the cooperation between police, police and aid services, which are there and which are paying off. I would ask you, Minister, to really draw attention to the problem in your National Security Plan and to cooperate with the relevant services. After all, this is not a problem that can be swept under the mat. It affects one in eight women, but also men are sometimes the victims. The problem therefore needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u49	Mr President, Minister, the Department of Justice is heading straight for disaster! All the actors in the judicial world unanimously share this sinister observation and will be gathered on 20 March to make an alarm call and to express their concerns, namely that without any additional means, justice is going right in the wall! Even the Sûreté de l'Etat (State Security), which is very unspeakable, has appealed to you for help, given the lack of the means available to it to carry out its tasks essential to the security of our citizens. Minister, in the last budget discussions, we warned you about linear cuts that could jeopardize the proper functioning of the Department of Justice. You then committed yourself to reconsidering the spread of the budgetary effort to be made. You promised us that there would be slides of envelopes and facilitations that would make it possible to improve the situation and, above all, to keep budgets where they are needed. The Finance Inspectorate has just recalculated your budget, even comparing it to the situation in Greece in the euro area! Your promises to raise the value of the point given to pro deo lawyers are swept away, your commitments to prison guards are compromised and your statements in favour of staff retention are left behind. Minister, in the face of such extreme and brutal considerations of the Finance Inspectorate, we can only support you in your efforts not to let justice sink. How do you intend to proceed - since you promised a lot to the actors of justice - to keep justice out of the water? What can you seriously say to the sector to reassure it, which is completely desperate in the face of the scale of the disaster that is set to take place? Minister, is it not time to come back to reason and dare to recognize that the budget of justice must be immunized, as we have been asking you for months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I sincerely hope that you are just as angry as we are with the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate regarding your requests for an extension of the budget. If what the press says is the exact truth, there is a bit of a feeling that decision-making and political power have moved from the government to a committee that is never there but to give advice. My colleague Mrs Özen has just pointed out that this opinion is frankly unacceptable. Even if we sit in the opposition, the questions we are asking you this afternoon may help you in the fight that will be yours during the next budgetary control. Because when we come to tell us that we must not prolong or terminate a whole series of contracts, that we must centralize staff, that we must not replace vacant mandates, especially at the level of judges, that we must limit staff costs, that we must close prisons while masterplans are designed to better meet our obligations in this area; we really wonder where we are going! Minister, if we are surprised at that, I think there is still a share of your responsibility. You have been in office for a few months now; for some time now you have announced plans, a potpourri that was to arrive by mid-February and that we are still waiting for. The judicial world is waiting and it will manifest itself again on 20 March. You're not telling us anything. You are also waiting, I imagine, for the outcome of this budgetary control. But please give us guidance! Tell us how you're going to run this regal service? What else can we do to help you at this stage to get the credits you will necessarily need? If you get only a small part of what you are considering, you already know that you will not be able to assume the normal functioning of the FPS for which you are responsible. Minister, first of all, what do you think of this opinion of the Finance Inspectorate? It seems interesting to me to know your point of view. How are you going to counteract these elements in the context of budgetary control? And most importantly, when and with what substantive proposals are you going to come to the Justice Committee at last? We're here to help you with credible proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u51	Mrs Özen, Mr Brotcorne, thank you for your questions. You have repeatedly used the word "dishope". Above all, don't despair! That would be premature. When I promise something, it's for me a commitment of result. If you doubt the Justice Plan, I assure you it will come. If you doubt the "pot-pourri" bills, they will be made public. Mrs. Onkelinx remembers it very well. I promised him a bank bill. She received it four months later. And she can't deny it. To tell you everything, we're going to do it. You're asking me what I think of the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. I'll tell you how unflattering he is! Since it is not subject to adversarial debate, I am not supposed to answer your questions, since you have not read it. You only consulted La Libre Belgique, in which it was written that the Justice Plan had been rejected, while this newspaper did not even know it. No, you didn't, since you corrected the title of the daily. I am not talking about the last three lines of the opinion which compare me to the Greek Minister of Finance. He's worse off than I am, too! To tell you everything, I agree with the conclusion of the opinion. As you have not seen, I can quote from it: "In structural matters, Justice does not do what it must do". And it's true! Postage stamps, as well as many judicial folds and criminal summonses, must be repealed. We'll get to it. I'm just saying we need to give us time to take the turn. We need to invest in legislation. I'm gonna get there faster than you think. We also need to invest in computer equipment in order to take this turn. As for buildings, we are asked to remove some prisons. Yes, but then fewer prisoners are needed. This requires structural measures. I've lost a little month because of terrorism, but we're going to succeed. I can only ask you to show a little patience. You know La Vache and the prisoner, with Fernandel: "We have to take the necessary time", Mr Brotcorne. And I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u52	Minister, thank you. We are desperate but there is a glimmer of hope! Even if we are lawyers, the equation is not very complicated. Either your government is sticking to budgetary rigour and wants to save money at all costs in the Department of Justice and it can put the keys under the mat, or you are forcing your colleagues to get additional resources or, at the very least, immunize your budget. I heard the head of your government say that he is joining in the actions and that your government is taking on its responsibilities! I think this is an opportunity to prove it to us. We look forward to your plan and the concrete steps you will take to deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm getting to know you. You're a staunch optimist. I think you're even a merry drill! You refer to Fernandel in your answers and you always present things to us in the best of days. Your interventions can be summarized as follows: "Trust!" This line is found in The Book of the Jungle. But justice should not become the jungle, Minister! Trust, yes! Patience, maybe! But it's been a long time since we've been waiting, and we've been tripping into committee to work on concrete projects. More seriously, I will retain one thing and I assure you that I will return to this subject. You have committed yourself to an obligation of result in order to comply with your general policy note. Be sure, Minister, that I will be particularly careful to verify that everything is actually being done and that, after this budgetary control, you will have obtained everything you have told us that you would get.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u54	Mr. President, Minister, the reform of hospital funding is sitting at the news table today. Some would argue that the system is untransparent and extremely complex. Some will even say that it is a bit hypocritical because, in the end, when there is a significant financial deficit in hospitals, there is a quick tendency to look for the difference in doctors' pockets. It is likely that everyone will agree that the current system is completely inadequate and that this reform, which has been discussed for some time now, needs to be put in place. It is also part of the government agreement. It is also obvious that on the basis of what has been written recently in the press, it is very likely that a number of doctors still have questions. I would like to refer to these four questions. Madam Minister, do you intend, as part of this reform, to carry out what is known as consultation with the sector, and certainly with the medical profession, which is directly concerned? With regard to the action plan, you suggested that it would be presented to us in late March or early April in committee. Do you think you can meet this deadline? Despite the new approach to pathology billing, could you still guarantee fee-for-service billing for doctors? Do you think that in this new approach, doctors will always have their place in the negotiations at the level of hospital management? Can they continue to be around the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u55	Madam Secretary, the nurses in the hospitals are troubled. I get weekly stories about nurses being called on during their vacation to come and play a shift extra. The overtime is piling up, while fewer and fewer nurses have to take care of a growing group of patients. It is a vicious circle in which fewer and fewer nurses remain for an ever heavier care package. The cause is the years of PS policy. Year after year, the funding of the hospitals was cut. Meanwhile, almost half of our hospitals are on loss. This leads first of all to staff cuts, which I have already referred to, and secondly to overconsumption. We need to save on that. For example, the waste in the CT scans must be removed. Thirty percent of this is being reduced unnecessarily. That's what hospitals do to try and put money in the drawer after all. This kind of waste must be dealt with, not the care staff. Those care providers are not a cost. They are not consumable raw materials, but they are human capital, in which investment must be made. That's what's coming back. Of every euro invested in nursing staff, 75 cents are returned in terms of fewer complications and a shorter withdrawal time in the hospital. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the problems in the workplace? You are announcing the reform of hospital funding. When can we expect your plan? In particular, how will you ensure that the work becomes workable again for the care staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u56	Mr President, Miss Van Camp, Mr Thiéry, it is strange that some media are already drawing the conclusion that medical specialists are rejecting the plan, although I have not yet communicated anything about the reform of hospital funding. Of this article, I remember above all the last sentence: "Nevertheless, they are nine out of ten to share Maggie De Block's will to review the funding of hospitals." The reform therefore enjoys broad support, as indicated by the survey published in The Specialist. Indeed, the problems are known. 1. The annual Maha analysis by Belfius says that the financial health of Belgian hospitals is deteriorating from year to year. If this negative trend continues, the hospital sector will go straight to ruin in the near future. I'm taking responsibility for this. I want to ensure that this situation is avoided and that we ensure the accessibility, financial viability and quality of hospital care for our people. 2. The financial margin is insufficient to broaden the staff framework. Mrs Van Camp, you are right when you say that nursing staff are having a hard time. All parties concerned complain about the complexity and lack of transparency of hospital funding in its current state. Finally, there are large differences in income between medical disciplines. We are aware of the Centre of Expertise's study, but I have never committed to implementing all the recommendations. With regard to your specific questions, I am able to reassure you. We have conducted a first wide-ranging consultation on hospital funding with all actors in the field. I am continuing this dialogue. It is clear that physicians are and must remain involved in hospital management and retain their decision-making power with respect to their fees. Reimbursement of medical care per act also remains an essential element of hospital funding, but I also wish to maintain the existing forms of lump sum fees, for example, in clinical biology and medical imaging. My aim is certainly not to subject Belgian specialists massively to flat-rate payment systems. The reform of hospital funding must be accompanied by a reorientation of the role of hospitals in the care landscape, so that people and limited resources are allocated as effectively as possible in line with the care needs of patients who are changing. I continue to draw up my plan of action, which I will present to Parliament by reserving the first. Mrs Van Camp, as I said, I understand the current difficulties of nursing staff. It goes without saying that when we talk about the financing of hospitals, most of it is about staffing. The budget earmarked for this purpose will therefore receive special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You touched a word of it, but it is clear that I was very surprised to see, on the one hand, the analysis of the study that was made by the newspaper Le Spécialiste, and, on the other, the interpretation of it made by the newspaper Le Soir this morning. That is why I have allowed myself to ask you this question. As such, information is sometimes used for different purposes! I think that the fullness of the information that has been taken up in the newspaper The Specialist is indeed full of common sense and that it is from there that we have to work. There are obviously other countries in Europe that have already taken a step forward in a pathology financing policy. Perhaps it would be interesting to draw inspiration from such experiments, since we have seen some drifts, but also some excellent things. Finally, doctors must of course remain the main players in this reform. Care must be taken to link funding to action on the one hand and funding by pathology on the other, since at first glance it would be said that these elements are not complementary, but rather opposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u58	Madam Minister, workable work is important for the N-VA, as we heard earlier. We will therefore ensure that the funding of hospitals is based on care staff and on quality. This means that those who achieve good results must be rewarded, while others must be stimulated to do better. To do better means to save on waste to be able to invest in human capital. Your plans don't really sound concrete yet. So maybe next figure can serve as a source of inspiration: for each patient extra under the wings of a nurse, the risk of mortality increases by 7%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u59	Mr President, Minister, yesterday you informed us that the Belgian State is taking a bourgeois position in the HSBC file, in order, of course, to strengthen the fraud investigation the BBI is carrying out. This is part of the whole story of the LuxLeaks. The bank HSBC came into dispute when it turned out that it would help its customers avoid tax. Among them three thousand Belgians. In addition, HSBC's top man confirmed that this bank has actively recruited in our country without any license. Minister, like you, the N-VA Group attaches importance to fiscal transparency and we also believe that tax fraud is unacceptable and should be combated. This government is said to be the friend of big business. In fact, this negative profiling goes so far that we can read Mr Laaouej's statement in L.Echo of 3 March that the fight against tax fraud is a contre-nature for this right-wing government. I thought that was a strange expression, especially when we know that there is an article on that same page in the same newspaper, according to which Mr Di Rupo's right hand lays down all his mandates. It appears that his company is based in Luxembourg for tax reasons. At least you will not be able to accuse us of double standards, Mrs Onkelinx. We therefore welcome your initiative for greater fiscal transparency, Minister. What problems do the BBI currently face, which makes it desirable to have a bourgeois party? What is the follow-up to this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u60	Mr President, Minister, please open your ears because I will begin my speech by saying "bravo and thank you". It didn't happen often. This may not happen more often. We'll see! I could have said "finally" too. However, HSBC files have been available to the ISI since 2010. In December 2013, I asked your predecessor, Mr. Geens, to file a civil suit against HSBC. A month ago, Mr. Nollet asked you here to position yourself on the subject. Today, it is better to be late than ever, you have actually decided to take civil action. It was important to give a signal that fraud is not acceptable both for those who fraud and for those who organise it, in this case, in the case where we are dealing, a Swiss subsidiary of an English bank. That act had to be done. However, I will not say, as Mrs Wouters has done, that this gives you any suspicion or any further commitment to this fundamental objective of combating fraud, which we still have many questions about. But I come back to the subject we are dealing with today. You have announced, in the halls of the House, that you intend to take civil action. I regret that you did not do so in the Finance Committee when you answered the question I tabled a month ago. Minister, within which time will the action be taken? What will be the means used to file this complaint against HSBC? As far as all the fraud files currently being analysed within the ISI are concerned, are you going to give yourself all the means – I am thinking of the ISI but also of justice – to properly prosecute the fraudsters?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, Mr Gilkinet, I have indeed asked the BBI to hold a bourgeois party against the Swiss subsidiary of the HSBC banking group, in order to safeguard the financial interests of the Belgian State and to ensure that the investigation into possible financial and fiscal malpractices is conducted as thoroughly as possible. This is an important step towards achieving greater fiscal transparency. On the basis of the current information, the Swiss HSBC subsidiary itself would not be subject to tax in Belgium and would not be subject to tax in its territory. However, if the bank is found guilty of offering or submitting to its client a special mechanism to promote fraud, its civil liability will of course be invoked. In addition to the appropriate penal sanction, the bank will also be obliged to make good the damage suffered in so far as the tax owed by its customers could not be collected. The ISI has not yet been able to consult the judicial file. As a result, it does not yet know the identity of the accused and does not have a comprehensive view of the tax consequences of the prosecution. The aim is to get a better view of this file. If it would also prove appropriate for the further investigation, my administration will also strongly consider requesting the exchange of relevant information, either in Switzerland or in the United Kingdom, in implementation of the existing treaties and European directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We, too, are in favour of fiscal transparency. We therefore consider it very important that you take this initiative. As Mr Gilkinet has said, this dossier has been known since 2010. I am therefore very pleased that you are taking action and not just leaving it to words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u63	Minister, I am curious, with you, to know the rest. I welcomed the action taken by the government via the ISI to take civil action in the case; but this cannot be a blast, an act without tomorrow. We will continue to pursue you, if I can say so, with the work decided in the Finance Committee every two weeks. We will continue to follow these cases very closely and to call for the means to be implemented, at all points in the chain of the fight against tax fraud (police, justice, FPS Finance), to have effective action in this area. I confess that I was very surprised that you personally refused to answer the question I had asked you on the subject. You sent her back to Mrs. Sleurs. I would like to ask you, beyond the action of the Secretary of State, to engage personally in this fight against tax fraud. This is the first of a Minister of Finance's responsibilities and you must achieve results in this area. I conclude by telling you that HSBC is not the only bank involved in fraud. I can tell you more. Another Swiss bank, UBS (the Union of Swiss Banks), was also marked by the opening of Belgian customers. Today, you have made a decision that will make jurisprudence. We will continue to urge you to prosecute fraudsters and fraud organizers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u64	Minister, I am deeply concerned. If we follow the reports from Greece in the last few hours and days, then it must be noted that there is a very big difference between what is said one day and what is said the other day by another personality or minister. Yesterday I saw a video message, which apparently dating from before the elections, from the current Minister of Finance, Varoufakis, in which he said: "Pay back"? We will never do that. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that our country has provided more than EUR 7 billion in loans to Greece, to help the country get on top of it and to put it in order. Lately, we have not heard many positive reports that should show that order is being put in place. There are a lot of different scenarios. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have already sat around the table with the new Greek Government on a number of occasions. You had an Ecofin Council on Monday and last Wednesday you had a conversation with your Dutch colleague Dijsselbloem. My question is do you share my concern? To put EUR 7 billion on our shoulders would be a huge hurdle for this Parliament. We feel every day that there is more and more hesitation coming from Greece. You've been meeting with these people intensively for the last few weeks. What is your sense of that? Can you reassure this assembly? Is Greece going in the right direction? Are the loans we have granted to Greece really helping the country and will they ever be repaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u65	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, I believe that we have reached a very fundamental point in the discussion with Greece and in the context of monetary union, in the sense that there is a double reality. There is the reality of the Greek elections and the reality of monetary union. I'm declaring myself. The Greek elections have democratically brought to power a government that has a number of plans, and you know them, they were sufficiently spread out in the media, which I shall say neutrally, do not immediately fit in with the idea of what is to happen within a monetary union. That's a first thing. A second point is the rules of the game in monetary union. From the moment one chooses to become a member of a monetary union, and above all, because I constantly hear that from Greece, to remain a member of monetary union, the rules are what they are and are what they are, regardless of the colour or colour of the government in question, whether in Greece or elsewhere in monetary union. That's a reality. That is the reality to which Greece must and will abide. The possibility is to adjust and even change things within the existing programme, but over and over again and unconditionally on conditions of approval of the institutions. You know that we are no longer allowed to talk about the troika; we are now talking about the three institutions, but we are essentially talking about the same thing. I want to make it quite clear that the Greek Government must remain within the existing programme in terms of substance and working methods, and by this I mean, of course, above all, the role played by the three institutions formally called the troika. There is unanimity within the Eurogroup of Finance Ministers. This is not only absolutely necessary and inevitable, but also desirable. After all, it is often heard that the programme has failed, and, given the evolution in Greek society, it is initially inclined to confirm that. The question is, however, why the programme has failed, whereas in countries such as Spain and Portugal, not to mention Ireland, it is beginning to bear fruit, even after a long and difficult period of deep crisis. Greece has so far not taken sufficient action, and I am moderate in saying that it should do what had to be done. In any case, within the group of finance ministers, it is a firm intention to keep Greece on that path this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you, particularly for your rigour and for pointing out that the decision is also unanimous. There were increasing trends and impressions that there would be a Dutch-German axis, on the one hand, and another axis that would be much more flexible, on the other. You know that our group will support you in your mandate. It is very important for us to keep Greece on board, but it is also important to draw the country's attention to its obligations. In other words, Greece must be clearly aware that the efforts made here to help that country must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, in the past week you have been confronted with your highly personal reality check. Despite all the great promises made in recent years and all the intentions you have expressed before as your opposition party's migration specialist, the reality turns out to be somewhat different: the number of repatriations is falling from 3 200 to 2 600, the number of places in closed centres is falling from 600 to 480 and the repatriation budget is falling by 20%. May I quote you for a moment? In 2011, you said in Parliament: "A credible asylum policy stands or falls with a credible return policy. It is incomprehensible that the government is reducing the budget for repatriation by more than 10% in the context of a full asylum crisis.' Today you are reducing the budget not by 10% but by 20%, Mr Secretary of State. Today you have the policy in your hands, you are no longer a member of the opposition and look, there is a doubling compared to the past, when you complained of a decline. My question to you is quite simple. It is true that a credible asylum and immigration policy stands or falls with the way in which expulsions, repatriations can actually be carried out. This does not appear to be the case under your policy. How will this ultimately correct and do what you have promised in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u68	Mr Dewinter, we know your solution: you want to send them all back with a slingshot, we know that, but it is not that simple and simplistic. Has the number of repatriations dropped? Yes. Do I regret that? Yes. Am I responsible for that? No. I took the oath on 11 October last year, let's look at the future, the 2014 figures have not been so bad since 11 October, the figures have fallen, but since October it has been heading in the right direction. Moreover, since 1 January 2015, there has been a steady increase of 20% compared to the 2014 average. Government policy is voluntary if possible, forced if necessary. I know, sometimes it has to be forced. Especially in the government's focus group, which is the criminal illegals, it is often forced, unfortunately, because they do not want to leave voluntarily. That is why there is an action plan with six points. First of all, there's gonna be extra staff and there's gonna be extra seats. I said it during the discussion of the policy paper, and I will stick to it, money comes through the introduction of the fee law, which has been collected by the municipalities since last week. The estimate is eight to nine million euros and that money will be entered in the 2015 budgetary control. So there will be an increase there, don't worry. Secondly, there are the special flights. Each month there is a special flight, before my arrival there were four a year. It will even rise quickly to twice a month, because we will work together with the Netherlands. That is what I agreed with Mr Teeven, who unfortunately is no longer in office. Besides, we're gonna get some money back from Frontex. We'll get money from Europe. Europe is not always cheap, it is even reasonably expensive. If we can get something back from Europe, we must also ensure that it does. 80 % will be repaid by Europe. That money's coming back to the Foreign Office. The relevant law was adopted on 19 December. You voted against, Flemish Interest voted against the fact that the Foreign Affairs Office gets that money back. However, the service can continue to invest in a better return policy. Thirdly, there is the action plan on prisons. We're already going to double. Last year it was 630, now it is 180 in two months, in good cooperation with Mr Geens. Fourthly, we are fighting the abuse of procedures. The asylum procedure directive must be transposed by summer. That's what's gonna happen. We will combat the abuses and remove the dilatory procedures and multiple asylum applications. It is not possible to prevent return flights in this way. Mr President, I have two points to make and I will conclude. Fifth, there is the action Gaudi. Last year, 39 and this year, in the same period, 130 illegal offenders were locked up in a closed center. Today, 85 of them have already been returned. I believe that this is a good result, with a heartfelt congratulations to our police services. Sixthly, we are in the process of reading mission agreements or readmission agreements. Today, the agreement with Nigeria has been signed, and I have just come from there. This is very important for Antwerp because there are a lot of illegal Nigerians, especially women, in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u69	All right, let's wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u70	Finally, we are also dealing with the issue of Algeria and Morocco. At the European Council, Mr Avramopoulos made it clear once again that he is now working on it. The mandate is in his hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, a lot of bleating but little wool. I quote you from a newspaper article from October 2014, six months ago. There you say: "In the short term," I believe that six months will be a short term after all, and 100 places will be added in the closed centres. As a result, we will be able to remove 1 000 more illegals in the short term. I don't know what kind of short-term is for you, but for me it's a half-year short-term. The result is no longer 1 000 illegal immigrants removed, it is no longer 100 reception places in that six months, the result is 18 % repatriations less, the result is 20 % less budget for repatriations, the result is 20 % less reception places for illegal immigrants in the closed centres. That's the result of a year of Francken, a year of N-VA in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u72	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u74	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the re-launching measure on specific aid in dislocated areas makes it possible to support employers who wish to invest in a region affected by large-scale collective redundancies. This draft law is a first necessary step to make this re-launching measure operational as soon as possible. The measure consists of the possibility for employers to obtain a 25% exemption from the transfer of the farm levy for two years as far as new staff are concerned. These new jobs must be the result of an investment supported by the Region. The Minister therefore stressed in committee that the concept of "Western aid' should be interpreted broadly and not limited to investment aid. According to the cooperation agreement to be concluded with each region that is interested in the federal measure, the Region will provide the Minister with a list of regional aid measures. This list will therefore be included in a circular by the administration. An additional condition for SMEs is that the workplace must remain for at least three years. For large companies this is five years. The Minister pointed out that in order to prevent any demarcation of a assisted area from requiring the European Commission's individual and prior agreement, it was opted for the measures set out in Articles 14 to 19 of the Competitiveness Pact Act to comply with the General Block Exemption Regulation established by the European Commission, which was recently amended and entered into force on 1 July 2014. Mr Smaers, Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Dewael, Mr Van Rompuy and myself took the floor. All asked for additional information on the preparatory contacts with the Regions and on the status of the cooperation agreements. How quickly can the support measures enter into force? It also stressed the importance of the simplest possible application procedure. The Minister replied that it is foreseen that the effective entry into force of all those measures would be at the end of April 2015. The Minister also indicated that on 18 December 2014, when the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft law and a draft cooperation agreement, all the relevant regional authorities received a letter asking them to start negotiations in that framework. So far, only negotiations have taken place with the Flemish Government and these negotiations are at a final stage. The list of regional aid measures eligible for federal aid to Flanders was approved by the Flemish Government on 27 February. The Flemish colleagues therefore stressed the enormous importance of this measure for the regions of Kempen and Limburg. Mr Gilkinet had some questions about the measure and about supporting investment. He asked if they were effective. Mr Gilkinet also tabled an amendment to provide for an annual evaluation of the criteria and percentages set to benefit from an exemption from farm levy, as well as a general evaluation of the aid after a period of three years. That amendment was not approved because the Minister confirmed that there would be an annual evaluation, which is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This annual evaluation has also been explicitly included in the scheme and in the cooperation agreements with the Regions. The draft law was adopted in committee with 13 votes in favour and 1 against. Mr President, I now come to my personal concerns. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this government has made a priority of the present draft law on destabilized zones. I think that is such a terrible word that I prefer to talk about assisted areas. I believe that the draft law is extremely important, on the Flemish side, for the regions of Kempen and Limburg. The closure of Ford Genk has caused a great deal and is currently catastrophic for Limburg. A lot of people are looking for a job right now. Just the 25% tax exemption measure can give a boost to companies in Limburg and in Kempen to recruit new people. I am therefore very pleased that the current measure is very broad, because the difficulty often existed in the compulsory combination with investment aid. All kinds of measures, from the SME portfolio on RSZ reduction to all kinds of loans that can be obtained through the Flemish government, can serve as regional aid, which was also one of the conditions. I only hope, Minister, that we will reach the 30 April limit. Can you confirm that we are still on schedule and that all the steps that had to be taken to reach that date have been successful? Thank you very much, also in the name of the Limburgers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u75	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we will adopt the law implementing the competitiveness pact and the articles of the Tax Code to bring them into line with the decision of the European Commission. The MR Group obviously supports this project, because at the end of this agreement, the Government has committed itself to ensuring, in cooperation with the regional executive, that the recovery measure concerning specific aid to free zones is operational as soon as possible. In developing the competitiveness pact, the government's objective was to take a measure that would provide short-term support to employers who wish to invest in a region affected by significant redundancies. With the agreement of the European Commission, the adoption of this project will allow investors to know in advance and with precision the reductions in professional discount which they will benefit in the event of hiring staff. In order for investment to take place, it must also be recognised by the Regions and aid must be granted by the Regions for this investment. In this context, you told us, Minister: "A cooperation agreement must be concluded with the Regions". We have just heard that this was the case for Flanders. I hope Wallonia will follow! We hope, therefore, that these cooperation agreements, signed quickly, will enable this measure to come out of all its effects, because it is an important and necessary step, in order to make operational this recovery measure, which launches a clear signal in favour of the economic redevelopment of these areas. The MR welcomes the fact that the government is acting quickly, efficiently and accurately through simple tax incentives to enable investors to settle, develop and create jobs in cities in difficulty. We are of course thinking of La Campine and Limburg, as well as Carsid in the Charleroi region, Caterpillar and now, in the province of Luxembourg, we are thinking of an undertaking which has just announced that it will close its doors in June 2016. Our group, Mr. Minister, will support this project, which is the foundation of a new dynamic not only in terms of development but also in terms of synergy with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today is based on the law of 15 May 2014 on the implementation of the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance. During the same period, May last year, the previous Flemish government decided to set up assisted areas for Genk and Turnhout. The Flemish administrations worked out concrete dossiers to support the additional affected regions of the region from both the regional and the federal levels. I will keep my speech together with my fellow Members from Limburg for the benefit of the Kempen, but above all for the benefit of Limburg. We all believe that this is a very good measure. We cannot therefore wait for the draft law to be adopted here so that this measure can be implemented. It is, after all, a measure that can contribute to additional employment and relance in the disturbed zones. In fact, I do not think that word is entirely right. It is a pity that we have had to decide on dislocated zones, given the large-scale consequences of collective redundancies in Ford Genk in Limburg, and many restructuring and collective redundancies in Kempen. Think of Philips Turnhout, Heinz Turnhout and Henrad Herentals. The Kempen and Limburg are the most industrialized regions in Flanders. There are also a lot of them in Wallonia. In these regions, the effects of crises and large-scale crises are the first to be felt. We are therefore pleased that these fiscal support measures have had a fairly rapid process. We hope that this will bring us a step closer to new growth and employment in the affected regions. I recently heard Marcia De Wachter from the National Bank of Belgium say that it must certainly be extra difficult for the regions of Kempen and Limburg to fight against the Netherlands that has invested heavily in a serious reduction in labour costs in recent years. Moreover, a tax shift has already been introduced in the Netherlands. For the northern regions of the regions of Kempen and Limburg, it is all the more important that they receive a reduction in their wages as otherwise they will be able to compete even more difficult with the Netherlands where the wage burden is much lower than in Belgium. I therefore hope that this fiscal favor, together with the strategic economic plans SALK and DYNAK, Limburg and the Kempen, can restore momentum and growth and that we can effectively create new jobs and new investments in the region in the coming years. Minister, as you promised during the discussion of this bill in the Finance Committee, I would ask you to implement the bill very quickly and the necessary royal decree, which still needs to be made, in order to implement a simple application procedure for the tax favor. The cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Flemish government should also be concluded quickly, so that we have an effective measure to which our companies can rely at the beginning of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many of us have already said: we are today approving the draft law which makes it possible to officially recognise the region of Genk and, by extension, Limburg and Turnhout as a support zone. In this area companies receive a 25% reduction in the social contributions to the new employment they create there. I can assure you that this measure will not come too soon, Minister. In June 2013, our group leader Patrick Dewael in this hemisphere already argued in favour of recognizing Limburg as a dislocated zone. The announcement of the closure of Ford Genk was then just like a bomb in Limburg. Today the factory has been closed for two months. The closure affected our social and economic fabric. 12 000 people lost their jobs directly or indirectly. It was a hard nut to crack for a lot of families in Limburg. In times of crisis one needs resilience and a horizon. For Limburg, this meant more investment, more companies, more economy, new economic poles, innovation, creativity and solidarity, but above all a lot of job creation and job retention. The exemption from the transfer of the holding tax of 25% for companies investing is a direct economic injection that can count. Without planning burden, without waiting times, simple, clear and clear. A substantial reduction in labour costs, oxygen for our economy. Patrick Dewael already emphasised it in the Finance Committee of 25 February. He said there: "This is a tax stimulus that can really make a difference, that investors can cross the line not in the Netherlands or Germany but here with us and create jobs. This is also a measure which has proved its worth in the past. After the closure of the Kempian coal mines, she helped us create new jobs. Or as he also said in that committee: "This measure is, as it were, the turbo on the SALK." This is also a concrete and very firm push in the back for the region of Turnhout. Over the past few years, the region has often been in the news with redundancies and company closures such as Philips, Heinz, McCain and DAF. This measure gives the much needed impetus to entrepreneurs who want to invest in the Kempen and, above all, to create jobs. Minister, you stated in committee that the publication will take place in mid-March. The cooperation agreement with the Regions can be signed immediately afterwards. The same would apply to the publication of the Royal Decree defining the zones. This measure will enter into force before the end of April. Mr Minister, today we are leaving the dark winter behind us. The economic spring will bring growth and prosperity, create jobs and harvest jobs in Limburg, in Turnhout, in Flanders, in our country. I would like to thank my fellow Members who will be supporting this draft today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u78	Mr President, I think there is little difference of opinion on this issue. It arose in the previous legislature at a time of major economic problems in a number of regions of our country. I believe that all the political parties have drawn on this with all their power and strength to get this dossier through. We have been delayed in this dossier, which is not due to anyone. I am pleased that this element of the competitiveness pact created by the previous government has also been included by this minister and has led to a successful conclusion to this draft. Minister, you have understood in committee that speed is desirable in this. You then previewed the timeline at the end of April, beginning of May. Perhaps you should explain that. Is everything still on schedule or do we have any obstacles to overcome here or there? I would like to emphasise the need for speed today, because I know of new investors, who have been waiting a few months for that measure. Again, the delay is not due to anyone, but speed is needed to create the jobs we have been talking about this afternoon in many discussions in the most vulnerable areas of our region. I hope that today we can adopt the text unanimously or almost unanimously and that the speed that is now in it can also be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u79	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am rather saddened to have to break, in a way, this unanimism beat in favour of this bill. Reference is made here to the mechanism contained in articles 275.8 and 277.9 of the Income Tax Code. But the philosophy of these two articles is the same as that of sections 275.1 to 277.9. What is this mechanism? We should be able to tell the workers. In fact, the employer collects a discount from the wages of its workers, which must be given to the tax authorities. Instead of returning the prepayment to the latter, he takes it, which is 25%. Some of these articles are intended to combine different exemptions. Sometimes there is a question of 100% of the discount. In other words, the whole of the worker's tax is levied by the employer and is not paid to the tax authorities. I can only call it a legalized theft of workers' wages. We can only support and applaud with two hands the idea of supporting the regions in difficulty, but this must not be done through costly and ineffective measures. Indeed, what is the cost of this professional discount exemption? I am not just talking about articles 275.8 and 277.9; I am thinking of all the professional discount exemptions. In 2005, this represented a cost to the State of EUR 200 million. In 2013, the latest figures available were EUR 3 billion in terms of budgetary loss for the State. The amount was therefore multiplied by 15 times between 2005 and 2013. This is huge, while the result is zero in terms of jobs. We are talking about the cost of notional interest, but with this measure of exemption from professional discount, we find ourselves facing the little sister of the latter. Rather than reducing the state's resources on the pretext of creating jobs that are never seen to be created, use them to create jobs where this is necessary. On the other hand, I would like to make a particular criticism of the above-mentioned articles. In addition to the gift given to employers, there is an extension of temporary work. Workers are therefore subject to a double penalty. Not only do they have to grant part of their taxes to their boss, they also see their working conditions deteriorate as they are forced to work as temporary workers. In conclusion, the PTB-GO! will vote against the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u80	Mr President, I think there is indeed a fairly large consensus on this project, subject to the philosophical remarks made by Mr Van Hees. Of course, he will not be surprised that I disagree with that. This is not the first time we have disagreed on this point. Restoring competitiveness creates jobs. The government has a comprehensive agenda in this area. The bill under discussion will further strengthen this effect for Limburg and the other provinces. Moreover, we have experience in Limburg with this type of measure and with its positive results. With regard to this assembly, I would like to stress that we are trying to maintain a tight timetable. After the discussion today, the publication of the bill in the Belgian Official Journal will follow in the second half of March. The signing of the cooperation agreement with Flanders, after publication of the law in the Belgian Official Journal, will take place at the end of March. The publication of the RB with assisted areas and the corresponding form necessary to obtain the concession will take place in the second half of April. The measure will enter into force at the end of April or early May. That is the timeline that we have set out in committee and which we will try to maintain. We will do everything in our power to do this. I have one small comment specifically for Limburg. I am in agreement with the Flemish Government to ensure that the demarcation of the zones takes place in the most appropriate and useful way, in order to achieve maximum results. Finally, at the end of January, meetings were held with all Regions to introduce this bill. The Flemish Region responded immediately. Unfortunately, so far, I have not had a reaction from the Walloon Region or the Brussels Region. The address of the finance firm has not changed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u81	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (879/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (879/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law adapting Title 3 of the Law of 15 May 2014 implementing the Pact for Competitiveness, Employment and Relance and Articles 2758 and 2759 of the Income Tax Code 1992 to Regulation (EU) No. Commission Regulation (EC) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market under Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty'. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. and 2759 of the Income Tax Code 1992 to Regulation (EU) No Commission Regulation (EC) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market under Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty'. The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u84	At the plenary session of 22 January 2015, it was decided that, following the resignation of Mr Romain Lesage, the Chamber would proceed to the appointment of a councillor of the Dutch Chamber. At the plenary session on 22 January 2015, it was decided that the Chamber would proceed with the appointment of an adviser to the Dutch Chamber, following the retirement of Mr Romain Lesage. The vacancy was announced in plenary session on 22 January 2015 and a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 2 February 2015. The applications were to be submitted by 4 March 2015. The vacancy was announced in plenary on 22 January 2015 and on 2 February 2015 a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor. Applications were to be submitted no later than 4 March 2015. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Hilde François, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Galle, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Herman Matthijs, Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel and Ghent University; - Ms Karin Staes, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Veerle Straetemans, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Van Hoeymissen, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Rik Verlinde, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Hilde François, first auditor-revisor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Galle, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr. Herman Matthijs, regular professor at the "Vrije Universiteit Brussel" and at the University of Ghent; - Mrs Karin Staes, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mrs Veerle Straetemans, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Marc Van Hoeymissen, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Rik Verlinde, first auditor at the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, candidates' CVs will be delivered to the political groups and candidates will be heard by the Sub-Committee of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups and the Court of Auditors sub-committee will hold a hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u85	In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 6 (2) of the Law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia should be proposed. In accordance with article 6, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the members of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act must be presented. In view of Article 21 of the Law of 6 January 2014 amending various laws as a result of the reform of the Senate, it is no longer the Senate but the Chamber that is competent to nominate the members of that Committee. In light of section 21 of the Act of January 6, 2014, amending various Acts as a result of Senate reform, this jurisdiction falls to the House and not to the Senate. The committee shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are doctors in medicine, at least four of whom are professors at a Belgian university; - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are professors at a Belgian university; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. They shall be designated on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of the committee. They shall be appointed on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of the Commission. Members shall be appointed, taking into account the linguistic parity of each language group, comprising at least three candidates of each sex and a pluralist representation, established by royal decree after consultation in the Council of Ministers, nominated from a double list by the Chamber. The members shall be appointed, with due regard for linguistic parity - each linguistic group with at least three candidates of each sex - and on the basis of pluralistic representation, by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, on a double list submitted by the Chamber. They shall be appointed for a renewable period of four years. They are appointed for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. The mandate of the members of the committee will expire in October 2015. Since the Senate had to publish several appeals in the Belgian Official Journal at the time of the previous composition of the Committee, the Secretariat of the Committee has already requested that the procedure for renewing the mandates be started. The term of office of the members of the Commission will expire in October 2015. In view of the fact that, at the time of the previous composition of the committee, the Senate had to issue several appeals to the candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the secretariat of the committee asked to start the procedure for the renewal of mandates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u86	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Francis Delpérée, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman, Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Sophie Wilmès) amending the law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and the open accounting of political parties, No. 949/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u87	- the proposal for a special law (Mrs Marco Van Hees and Mr Raoul Hedebouw) amending the special law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals and an asset declaration in order to make the capital declarations public, No. 950/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Marco Van Hees and Mr Raoul Hedebouw) amending the Law of 26 June 2004 implementing and supplementing the Law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals and a capital declaration, in order to make the capital declarations public, No. 951/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u88	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2015, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms Veerle Wouters, MM. Francis Delperée, Georges Gilkinet and Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Karin Temmerman, MM. Luk Van Biesen and Servais Verherstraeten and Sophie Wilmès) amending the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as on the financing and open accounting of political parties, No. 949/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u89	- the proposal for a special law (MM. Marco Van Hees and Raoul Hedebouw) amending the Special Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to file a list of mandates, functions and professions and a declaration of assets, with a view to making public the declarations of assets, No 950/1; - the bill (MM. Marco Van Hees and Raoul Hedebouw) amending the Act of 26 June 2004 implementing and supplementing the Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to file a list of mandates, functions and professions and a declaration of assets, with a view to making public the declarations of assets, No. 951/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u90	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u91	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of Bills Nos. 950/1 and 951/1 tabled by my colleague Mr Raoul Hedebouw and myself concerning the publicity of the assets of political agents. I had the opportunity to introduce the question at the last plenary meeting. I ask the urgency to discuss this law on the assets of public agents for the following reason: every week a new case of supposed financial malfeasance breaks out. Even today, a new mayor is concerned. I remember that time when Minister Reynders, unfortunately absent, said that the centre of gravity had to be turned towards the MR. I think that today, in terms of business, the MR has managed to shift the centre of gravity towards him. [[Brouhahaha]] [[.]] Given the current accumulation of cases, I think the urgency is necessary. That is why we are asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting in favour of Mr Van Hees' question of urgency. I think the counter test is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u93	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. Since it is a regulation so that all political parties can submit their accounts in good time and in the right way, this legislative amendment is very urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we join and stand up on the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u95	The government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law on public sector pensions (No. 922/1). The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the Public Sector Pensions Bill (No. 922/1). I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about that question. I propose that we take a stand on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on March 4, 2015. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 4 March 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 015/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Anne Dedry and Ms Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Nathalie Muylle and Yoleen Van Camp and MM. Dirk Janssens and Richard Miller. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 015/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and by Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Richard Miller. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u97	Mr President, in a few words, I would like to recall the issue of this motion. It has been known for a long time that there is a shortage of specialized doctors in certain geographical areas and hospitals. The Minister announced an improved cadastre to plan the supply and number of practitioners needed. So I asked her to know what data she intends to collect so that this cadastre is dynamic. It's about how to distribute doctors – the offers of care – and how to meet the needs. This is indeed the most important criterion. Some of the elements she has provided to us are satisfactory, but there are others, capital, that she has not asked for. Thus, the physician's place of exercise will not be a data provided to the Planning Commission. I have to tell you, I don't care where a doctor lives. On the other hand, I would like to know where he is, since that is where he provides care. In the same way, we will not receive any specific indication of working time. Nor will we be able to anticipate the moment of retirement or predict the decrease in the physician's activity. A dynamic cadastre requires the presence of such indications. That is the meaning of the motion that I propose to support today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u98	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u99	Yes 77 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 128 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (879/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (879/5) Mr Philippe Pivin and Mr Jef Van den Bergh also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-12-54-plenair-ip034x.u101	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 March 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 March 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 March 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 March 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
