ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u1	Every year, Minister, the various Land Parliaments approve both resources and expenditure budgets, which must also be published in the Belgian Official Journal. The resources budgets are generally published in the Belgian Official Journal quite quickly after Parliament's approval. The expenditure budgets of some Länder, on the other hand, are not found in the Belgian Official Journal. There is sometimes a long delay. Mr President, are the Länder obliged to publish their expenditure and resources budgets in the Belgian Official Journal within a specified period of time? If so, what principles or regulations will that be based on? What is the validity of the expenditure budgets approved in the parliaments if they were not published in the Belgian Official Journal? What are the consequences of this? If we do not agree with the expenditure budgets or their aspects, there will be a legal problem. Can a judicial procedure be initiated, for example at the Constitutional Court, if the expenditure budget was not published in the Belgian Official Journal and was therefore not ratified? I am very curious to hear your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u2	Mrs Pas, as regards your first question, Article 190 of the Constitution states: "No law, no decision or regulation of general, provincial or municipal government is binding than after having been published in the form laid down by law." Article 50 (2) of the Special Financing Act of 16 January 1989 instructs the ordinary legislator to lay down the general provisions applicable to the budgets, the accounts and the organization of the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, as well as the control of the granting and use of grants. This article was implemented by the Law of 16 May 2003, which included the general provisions. Therefore, the dates for the submission and approval of the budgets not provided for in the Law of 16 May 2003 are laid down by the Länder in their own texts. As far as your second question is concerned, I can say the following. As far as the federal expenditure budget is concerned, the possible publication after 31 December has no adverse legal effect on the federal government. The general expenditure budget is valid for a full year and therefore it is not necessary to set a precise date of entry into force. At federal level, however, efforts are being made, if practical, to publish the expenditure budget before 31 December. On the other hand, the publication of the expenditure budget may determine the abolition of the system of provisional appropriations and the possibility of bringing an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court is possible within six months of its publication. This provides for Article 3 (1) of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer, but I have not been given an answer. It's still a problem. If, for years, no expenditure budget is published in the Belgian Official Journal of a given Land, can we bring legal proceedings before the Constitutional Court? You are talking about the legal possibility of initiating proceedings up to six months after publication in the Belgian Official Journal. I know that possibility, but can it be if it isn't announced? There is no time limit within which it should be published? Otherwise, it would be easy to get rid of proceedings by not having it published maliciously in the Belgian Official Journal. I would have liked an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u4	Mr President, Minister, an agreement has been reached, under the previous legislature, that the deficit of the local authorities is partly attributed to the trajectory of entity 1, in view of the many local expenses associated with federal decisions, in particular in terms of police missions, firefighters, CPAS. The National Bank was called upon to submit a report on the matter. Minister, can you share with me the content of this report and send a copy of it to the committee? What is your work schedule? You have read like me that the ministers-presidents Bourgeois and Demotte urge you to move forward, you who are dreaming of a sacred budgetary union – that is in any case what you have said in the future – including with regard to local authorities. Can you tell me the dates of the "convivial and important" meetings – I repeat here the terms you used, last time – that you have already had or that you will have with them on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate, in my view, to re-establish the context and to look back on what has happened in the last two or three years. During the previous legislature, the Concerted Committee of 2 July 2013 decided to request a report from the National Bank of Belgium to analyse the results of the various components of the local authorities and the responsibility of each of the levels of power concerning them (entities 1 and 2). The Consultation Committee of 6 November 2013 finally entrusted this task to the Conseil Supérieur des Finances. As a result of this request, in March 2014, the Funding Requirements section released a report entitled Local Government Budgetary Development Report. This report is available on the website of the Supreme Council of Finance. I imagine that the ministers-presidents Bourgeois and Demotte have certainly already had the opportunity to read it, even if it is 147 pages long. This very comprehensive report provides a detailed overview of the budgetary situation of the local authorities over the period 2006-2012, from the point of view of revenue, primary expenditure and budgetary balances. In view of the many aspects dealt with in this report and its size, it is unfortunately not possible to present all the elements exhaustively in the context of this response. In the report of the Supreme Council of Finance, it is recalled that the financing of local governments is largely based on transfers received from other levels of authority, in particular from the supervisory authority of the Regions. The report also indicates that there has been relatively little change in own tax revenues as a proportion of GDP over the entire electoral cycle, as the report referred to the period 2006-2012. As regards the analysis of the primary expenditure of local governments, the report of the Higher Finance Committee points out that they consist mainly of remuneration for more than 50% and that local government investments alone account for almost half of the total public investment over the period analysed. The Higher Finance Council also highlighted the fact that the average annual growth rate, i.e. +1.8% of the adjusted primary expenditure of local governments (i.e. adjusted for operations based on cyclical expenditure on unemployment and cyclical expenditure on investment; this is therefore defined as structural expenditure), was, between 2009 and 2012, higher than that of the federal government, i.e. 1.4%, with the Communities and Regions accounting for 0.9%. In its report, the Supreme Council of Finance devotes a section to the budgetary balances of small local authorities, recalling in particular the differences between local government accounts and the differences with ESA 95. In the context of this report, the Council shows that, over the period 2006-2012, the balance of local government funding has deteriorated due to an increase in primary expenditure in a context of relative income stability. This analysis of the budgetary developments of local authorities over the period 2006-2012 sheds some interesting light on the different budgetary components of local authorities, as well as on the responsibility of each of the levels of authority for them and, as a reminder, entity 1 and 2. I must conclude my reply by recalling that the cooperation agreement of 13 December 2013 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions and the Community Commissions on the implementation of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance within Economic and Monetary Union also takes into account the dimension of local authorities in the development of the overall fiscal trajectory of public administrations. Thus, Article 3 states that "each Contracting Party undertakes to take, in the exercise of its powers and/or control over them, all measures necessary to ensure that local authorities respect their budgetary objectives as set out in Article 2". Finally, Article 4 of the agreement – excuse me for being a little technical, but I think it is important for the general clarification – provides that the Supreme Council of Finance will identify "if there is a discrepancy in the result of local authorities, the proportion of this difference resulting from the new impact of the measures taken by the Federal State and whose responsibility is therefore not incumbent on the Regions and the Communities". As you say, Mr. Nollet, I did propose to my fellow federal budget ministers to meet informally this Monday, February 23, just after Carnival week, with the aim of taking stock of key budget issues in the coming years. I am, of course, open to discussing any matter with my colleagues. I want to make it clear, because I'm told that I'm being rushed, that I haven't received any letters from anyone. I would like to speak, but it's always fun to hear from the press that I'm "pressed" when I didn't get any calls until a month ago, or any requests to see how I was doing, especially in recent budgetary debates. I believe that a methodology should first be discussed, followed by a comprehensive reflection on local authorities and planning, since there will be, in any case, a formal meeting in the framework of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance, with the various entities, on 1 April – this is not to be invented. However, we can see each other on a regular basis in order to try to find the best solutions for all within the Belgian entity, without distinguishing 1 and 2. That is why, it is true, I have spoken of a positive sacred union hoping that it will work best for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u6	Minister, your comments on the context in which you are trying to reach an agreement have not shocked me at all. In addition, the remarks that you ask to hurry do not emanate from me, but from your colleagues. So, in your opinion, this report that they asked for from you in the press – I have the Belga dispatch of January 27 in front of me – does exist and appears on the website of the Supreme Council of Finance? I'll take note of that. In terms of local government expenditure, what is entity 1's share? Do you have any numbers? That was my only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u7	I don't have the numbers here. In addition, the update must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u8	You can give me the numbers of the time. It is simply a matter of having an idea of the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u9	Above all, attention must be paid to the overall balance of local authorities. Based on the 2014 budget, this amount has been estimated at 350 million. Some communes are a little behind. In any case, the regions have not yet exercised their control over the budgets as they have returned. This is therefore an overall and relatively conservative estimate. I would point out that in previous years there was a certain balance. Finally, there remains an important fact for the discussion to be held between the Regions and the Federal State: the implementation of the current ESA standards. In particular, I note that the issue of investment for municipalities, given the imposed benchmarks, is potentially interpretable. This element should be discussed first between us and, where appropriate, in liaison with European representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u10	I agree. I understand the difficulty and importance of how to calculate investments, especially for local authorities. However, I am still interested in getting the breakdown of the entity 1 portion, but you do not have it on-site. So I'd like to ask your firm to pass it on to me, because it'll be helpful. I'll give you my email details to speed up the response.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u11	Mr President, Minister, on 20 January the government sent a letter to the European Commission in an attempt to address the latter's doubts about Belgium's fiscal trajectory and the fulfilment of its commitments to reduce deficits. You were kind enough to send our committee a copy of this letter and we analysed it. Surprisingly, for some policies, there are sometimes significant differences between the initial assessment of receipts, i.e. the one included in the 2015 budget voted by our assembly, and the adjusted amount reflected in the letter sent to the Commission. I have taken stock of various elements with the Minister of Finance, but there is one aspect that concerns you in particular. You are expecting a €100 million gain in 2015, which, according to this letter, could be increased to €450 million in 2018 thanks to the revision of interest rates. Minister, on what assumptions did you use to calculate this very important gain in the short and medium term? Why were these assumptions not taken into account in the drafting of the 2015 initial budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u12	Mr President, honourable Member, the assumption of calculation is based on the recent evolution of interest rates between the preparation of the 2015 budget and January 20, 2015, when we received several data that we did not know before. Last October, we averaged 1.24% on OLOs (linear bonds) at 10 years. In January, we rose to 0.72%, the historically lowest rate. As far as the interbank market rate is concerned, over the same period we went from 0.08% to 0.06%. In this case, we also face historically lowest rates. There are many reasons for this, but I can mention, among other things, the low inflation rate, the fall in the ECB's key interest rates and the recent quantitative assessment of 22 January 2015 by the European Bank, which has already had a pre-emptive effect on interest rates. During the period from 22 January to 5 February, the three-month Euribor increased from 0.06% to 0.05% and the ten-year OLO increased from 0.7% to 0.6%. The outlook for the 2015 interest rate decline justified a revision of the amount of interest charges for the same year. The amount of 100 million in the above-mentioned context seems to be in the low or perhaps very low range, taking into account the latest forecasts from the European Commission. So it's a very cautious view of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u13	Minister, I take note of your answer. You are talking about conservative estimation, you will need to be able to measure the lasting effects of the ECB's quantitative easing. We will take stock this afternoon with the Governor of the National Bank on this matter. On the other hand, I note that you are less cautious in predicting the effects until 2018 of these abnormally low rates. We will remain attentive, while regretting once again that the initial budget year has not been more precise, whereas the points raised during the budgetary discussions, on the basis of the documents, in particular, of the Court of Auditors, are correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, the Lottery has launched an online gaming offer. It also announced in the media the establishment of 150 vending machines throughout Belgium. I find this to be a twofold concern. Firstly, I would point out that the legislation of 7 May 1999 regulates games of chance, gambling establishments and the protection of players. This law prohibits the access of persons under the age of 21 to the playgrounds of gambling establishments. All gambling is prohibited for all minors. Moreover, the Lottery defines itself as a responsible gaming operator and the government, in its general policy note, in your note, therefore, says that the National Lottery is the only responsible gaming operator in Belgium. Secondly, these facts call upon me with regard to booksellers. You know that bookstores are experiencing a deep crisis; 1,200 of them are said to have disappeared in Belgium since 2000. Launching an offer of online games and placing vending machines is an additional blow to the club. How do you reconcile these offers emanating from what you say to be a responsible gaming operator with player protection? I am thinking in particular of miners, while the Lottery has developed online games and now offers its vending machines. How are online games and other products of the National Lottery less dangerous than the playrooms in which minors are prohibited? You also stated in your general policy note that you would consider the possibility of privatization of the National Lottery. Should the specific arrangements for this institution be repealed? Finally, in view of the critical situation in the bookstore sector, are vending machines not a new coup de massue and new competition, while reducing the protection of minors? In fact, the booksellers had a responsibility in this regard. This filter will no longer be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, first of all, the difference in concept between the games of the National Lottery and the games rooms should be highlighted. Unlike the National Lottery which offers its games in a network widely open to the public and of great passage and whose advertising campaigns are framed by a code of ethics in advertising, the games rooms are generally closed places, exclusively reserved for games of chance and whose numerous advertising campaigns are often suggestive or aggressive according to the ratings. The management contract concluded between the National Lottery and the Belgian State contains various provisions aimed at ensuring strict compliance with the prohibition of sale to minors, but also allowing to act as a provider socially responsible for playful pleasures. To do this, the online games and other products of the National Lottery benefit from a strict framework that allows the National Lottery to offer, in a controlled environment, a legal and secure alternative to the games of chance often illegally offered on the Internet. In the case of online games, the player candidate must identify himself by means of his e-identification card or his national registry number. If he does not meet the conditions of age (over 18 years) and residence (domicile in Belgium) he will not be able to participate in the online games offered by the National Lottery. Finally, the National Lottery informs the points of sale on how to control the age of the player, including those to receive the new vending machines of the National Lottery. Point of sale, in case of doubt, can always ask for proof of the age of the player and not sell in case of refusal to present a piece of identification. In the event of an infringement, the point of sale risks financial sanctions or even the withdrawal of the possibility of selling products from the National Lottery. In answer to your third question, I remind you that the National Lottery is a public limited company whose shareholders are the State and the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement (SFPI). The issue of privatization of the National Lottery is not on the agenda. In the event of a possible privatisation of the National Lottery, it would be up to the shareholders to decide on the modalities that should govern it. To answer your last question, I would like to point out that the National Lottery has the task of channeling the game. In order to do this, it relies on a distribution network which in this case consists largely of bookstores. At the end of 2014, the National Lottery had 5,374 outlets. Bookstores, which account for 57.8% of sales outlets for 78.3% of sales, remain by far the preferred channel of the National Lottery to distribute its games. However, we have seen an unfavourable trend in the number of bookstores over the past several years. This represents a decrease of 467 units between 2011 and 2014; in 2014 alone, 93 bookstore points disappeared. Nominations are submitted, but accreditation is based on many criteria. The main factors contributing to these disappearances are the decline in sales of tobacco products, newspapers and magazines in the light of digital competition and that of other outlets also broadcasting the press. The new ATMs of the National Lottery, a decision of the previous government, meet this objective of pipeline in that they allow a diversification of the distribution network, thus taking into account the economic reality and the new consumption patterns observed: gas stations, cinemas, etc. I draw Ms Fonck's attention to the fact that the new ATMs are not intended to pay for winnings and offer a limited range of lottery products. The player will always have to go to a point of sale equipped with a terminal – in most cases, a bookstore – to cash any winnings. I can only invite you to take the advice of Mr. President: we could answer all these questions during the planned visit in a few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers. The question is addressed to the government and not to the National Lottery. Before going back to the essentials, that is to say, as regards minors, a word about bookstores: in practice, this decision does not seem to me to be able to improve the situation of booksellers. For the miners, in my opinion, things seem to go too far. In fact, it's a state gambling machine that brings back money. In the face of competition, the National Lottery decided to go further. The National Lottery must remain a responsible operator and the State must pursue a policy without any ambiguity, the aim being to protect minors and, in my opinion, this is not the case at the moment. Indeed, we push the plug further because of the competition, but we push it too far! You are still not so naive as to believe that when it comes to online games in particular, teenagers do not have all the means and strings necessary to circumvent the pseudo-locks and pseudo-protections put in place. I invite you to interview teenagers, they'll tell you how to proceed. Minister, it is imperative that the government intervene and put an end to this form of escalation at the expense of the protection of minors. This, in my view, is a crucial issue in relation to the current status of the National Lottery.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u17	The Minister has to go to the Conference of Presidents at 11:30. We have five questions left. I invite everyone to put them down in a very synthetic way, because the minister can still stay ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u18	Minister, in the newspaper L'Avenir du 3 février, you return again to one of the major projects you wish to open, namely that of inheritance rights. If I can share your general reflection on this matter, I would like you to clarify your point and above all your schedule of work. What are your concrete proposals and when will they be tabled on the government table? Will this be on the occasion of the conclave of March or later in 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u19	Mr Nollet, indeed, this was a broken discussion with a journalist in this case. This is not the first time I have mentioned the subject, in time non-suspecto I would say, especially in a personal contact with the OECD, which quoted in December 2014 the figure of EUR 258 billion deposited on the regulated savings accounts in Belgian banks. It's a new record amount. These figures were published on 5 February 2015 by the National Bank. What has been noted is the inability of governments, as the OECD does not examine the internal organisation of Belgium, to be able to take out the money and encourage the holders of the money, somewhat sleeping, to inject it into the real economy, especially since the interest rates are almost zero. On the other hand, we see that life expectancy continues to grow. It is becoming increasingly common for people to benefit from an inheritance at retirement age. Money never goes back to investors, consumers. Thus, this money sleeps involving the payment of inheritance rights, etc. Therefore, the families that can organize themselves, they do it with donations. But it's not always easy in the case of new single parent families, etc. Personally, what I am contemplating, with much of this subject being regionalised, in the context of the user-friendly contacts referred to, is the possibility of seeing these projects. I could expand on the subject, for having carried out all the legal analysis at the level of the respective competences. There is still a difference between Flanders and Wallonia in terms of perception and skills. The matter is regionalized. We are still governed by a code dating back two centuries, where life expectancy was in the third generation. Here, we will soon reach the fifth generation, which affects this global aspect. I could go into more detail but we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u20	Minister, I understand that we are in a hurry, but if you have a more complete answer, you may be able to pass it on to me because I am interested in it. If I understand correctly, you are not going to initiate reform in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u21	In the first instance, informally because the regions are competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u22	That is why I am asking the question. You're talking about a guarantee code that could reassure you. What is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u23	This was a misperception or interpretation. To release the €258 billion, I also mentioned the possibility of a conceptual update of the Monory-De Clercq laws, but it was in another register. There was some confusion in the transcript.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u24	So we should not expect an initiative from you as a federal minister, except informally, through what the Regions could do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u25	I'm not competent. Through the Ministry of Justice, there had already been actions by Mrs Turtelboom in the field of family law, on the reserve, etc. This is the responsibility of the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u26	Minister, be careful next time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u27	Question No. 1935 by Mr. Van Hecke is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u28	Mr President, Minister, at the committee on 21 January, you said that the 2015 budget deficit target for entity 1 was -2.1% of GDP, the full report is explicit in this regard. You have even made a lot of emphasis on the fact that this was the objective of entity 1 and not "the whole of Belgium". The whole of Belgium is therefore composed of entity 1 and entity 2. I'm clear, so we know what we're talking about. I went back to the budget documents and I can't find that figure of -2.1% for entity 1. On page 9 of DOC 540494/001, it is stated that the target in terms of entity 1's nominal balance is -1.9% in 2015 and in footnote it is explained that entity 1's budgetary target is -2.0% for 2015, the difference with the expected balance of -1.9% due to the 200 million reserve known. In short, the budgetary documents of the time speak of a -2,1% only for the balance of financing of "the whole Belgium", all entities combined, not for entity 1, which you claimed on 21 January. No matter what has been said, the most important question is my question, which is to empty the debate today. Could you once and for all clarify the 2015 target (nominal balance, financing balance and structural balance) for entity 1 but also for entity 2 and for "Belgium as a whole" so that things are clear on the eve of a budget adjustment that is expected to be crucial? This will ensure that there is no unnecessary discussion of the real objective to be achieved. Was there a little mistake last time? Are these the budget tables or anything else?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u29	Mr President, honourable Member, I do fear that there may have been some confusion about the budgetary standard for 2015 during the Committee on 21 January. For the sake of clarity, I shall once again specify the budgetary objectives in nominal terms for entities 1 and 2 and for Belgium as a whole. I say in nominal terms! For 2015, the budgetary target set in the budget statement for entity 1's nominal balance was set at -2% of GDP, taking into account a reserve of 200 million. Off-reserve, the expected nominal balance for entity 1 in 2015 is -1.9 per cent. At entity 2 level, the nominal balance target was set at -0.2% of GDP. For all public authorities, therefore, a budgetary target of -2.1% of GDP in 2015, taking into account rounding, is achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u30	Minister, thank you. Things are flat, we have the same numbers. We're not fighting anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u31	Mr President, may I ask you to ask my question first? I have to go to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u32	Mr Minister, I have a very short question to ask to remove the confusion. A great deal has already been said about the tax shift, about budgetary control and about the timing of both. You said something about this at the last committee meeting in response to a question by Mr Nollet. In the meantime, however, statements that differ continue to follow. I asked the Finance Minister what the timing was for the tax shift and he replied that it was before March. The timing of budgetary control is also in March. I have some questions on this because it is important to clarify them. What is the exact timing of budgetary control? Will it or will it not coincide with the fiscal reform? What is the current assessment of the effort to be made in budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u33	Mr Calvo, according to the Spring 2015 budget calendar approved by the Council of Ministers on 9 January 2015, budgetary control will take place at the end of March. For this exercise, the government will support a re-evaluation by the Monitoring Committee of the main expenditure and revenue flows of entity I. This report from the Monitoring Committee is expected by mid-March and will be based on data from the economic budget expected at 3 p.m. tomorrow, 12 February. The budgetary effort to be made in the context of budgetary control will depend to a large extent on this re-evaluation as well as on the priorities set by the government. At this stage, therefore, I do not wish to anticipate any amount. As regards the timing of the tax reform, I would ask you to put your question to my colleague responsible for finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u34	Minister, you cannot simply refer this question to your colleague Van Overtveldt. The question is whether or not there will be coherence, and you are as involved in this as the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u35	Perhaps you could ask the Prime Minister your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u36	Aren't we gonna make a conclave?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u37	The question is whether or not this exercise will run together. Mr. Minister, this exercise is made with Minister Van Overtveldt. That is why I have to ask you this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u38	Mr Calvo, if you have any questions, I think the Prime Minister would be best placed to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask this question in connection with my concern about two issues: obtaining a faster payment cycle for the public authorities and reducing payment periods for private partners, on the one hand, and administrative simplification for private trading partners, on the other. You have already referred to it in your policy statement and in your policy paper, and this government has a number of plans for electronic invoicing. I have asked three specific questions about the progress of electronic invoicing and, above all, about the encouragement that would come from the public authorities to give the electronic invoicing not only to the public authorities but also to SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, for your first and third questions, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Secretary of State Francken, who is responsible for administrative simplification. Indeed, the coalition agreement states that the ongoing pilot project for electronic invoicing will be extended to all departments. The current state of electronic invoicing, i.e. receipt of an invoice via an UBL file, is the following. The pilot government services, namely the Chancery of the Prime Minister, the FOD Budget and Management Control and Fedict, have been live since July 2014. They can now receive e-invoices from Electrabel and KPMG. By the end of February 2015, Proximus will also send e-invoices to these pilot government services for the fixed telephony part. The pilot phase of the e-invoicing project is still ongoing in the second quarter of 2015. Afterwards, the other FPS will be rolled out between the second quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2017. This will be done in different roll-out phases. At the same time, suppliers should go through an onboarding procedure to enable them to send a correct e-invoice in the UBL format to the Mercury platform for further processing in Fedcom. In 2015, some of the main suppliers with the largest number of invoices will be contacted for conversion, so that by the end of 2016, these suppliers will be able to send their invoices under UBL format to the Mercury platform. The timing still depends on a number of factors, such as the provision of the necessary resources, the implementation of additional modules for invoice processing, the provision of consultants experts in that domain, the setting up of the necessary governance policies, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u41	Mr President, my question on the promotional measures remains valid. For the first part of my question, in connection with administrative simplification, you referred to Secretary of State Francken and the part about Fedcom you answered yourself, but on the third part, you did not reply to the encouragement actions against SMEs and the use of electronic invoicing by SMEs. Can you still do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u42	For your first and third questions, I must refer you to Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u43	Yes, you said that, and I noted that, but there was a third part of my question. There were three shutters in my question. For the first part, you refer to Secretary of State Francken, the second one you answered yourself, but with regard to the third part, in connection with the encouragement actions for the use of electronic invoicing in SMEs, you did not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u44	I can't give you an answer right now. I would like to be cooperative, but Mr Franken is in charge of this. By ethics, I invite you to address him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u45	So, Minister, for those measures of encouragement, would you also refer me to Secretary of State Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission is aiming to revolutionise public accounting, with the aim of making it go through the 21st century, by making it adopt a heritage vision rather than a cash flow vision. This follows the 2007-2008 financial crisis. The European Public Sector Accounting Standards (EPSAS) system will allow for asset accounting rather than cash accounting. This system will therefore enable States to have a vision of their heritage at a given time, including both disbursements and commitments made by States. In this way, the "treasure" mode, which gave only a purely budgetary view, will be completed. Minister, 2020 is at our doorstep and the Belgian accounting system is not close to the new standards. In addition, in 2013, a study carried out by Europe estimated that Belgium was only 65 % compatible with the EPSAS standards. Minister, what are you planning to do with a view to best preparing Belgium for the implementation of the EPSAS standards? Have you defined an action plan for the adoption of the new EPSAS standards for state accounting? Do you have an action plan that includes a guideline? Have you ever planned a budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, in reply to the first question, I would like to point out that the FPS Budget and Management Control takes part, via the Director-General of the Accounting and Federal Service, in the work of the EPSAS Task Force, which was set up under the aegis of the European Union and led and coordinated by representatives of Eurostat. The Budget FPS has launched a public consultancy contract to be supported by accounting professionals as part of the transition to EPSAS standards. In addition, several members of the SPF participated in targeted trainings at international IPSAS/EPSAS conferences. With regard to the possible existence of an action plan, I would like to point out that the involvement of the SPF Budget in the meetings organised under the aegis of Eurostat enables us to be aware of the decisions to be taken in this regard in order to determine as much as possible our action plan. In addition, the decision taken by the SPF Budget to launch a public procurement in 2015 to be assisted by accounting professionals in the transition to the EPSAS reflects our willingness to prepare ourselves professionally. This consultation collaboration will enable us to set the stage for the concrete action plan to be implemented by 2020. Clear deadlines will need to be set in this action plan. On the other hand, I would point out to you that, as of today, the term for the entry into force of the EPSAS standards, which is set at 2020, is only a first estimate formulated by Eurostat which will still have to be confirmed by the work to be organised by Eurostat for the development of European standards. For the time being, we have set up a budget for the support of the SPF Budget by an accounting professional with experience in public accounting. On the basis of the findings and the formulation of the needs to be reflected in the action plan to be implemented, we will set the necessary budgetary requirements. Thank you very much, Mrs Cassart, for your question, which partly supports Mr Dispa's first question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-11-54-commissie-ic086x.u49	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I'm not going to go back to this case right now, because you have to let yourself work. Then we will see the evolution. We'll talk about it when it's necessary.
