ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u2	By letter dated 16 November 2015, the FDF informed me that he had adopted the name DéFI (Dédemocratice Fédéraliste Indépendant). By letter dated 16 November 2015, the FDF informs me that it has adopted the name DéFI (Independent Federalist Democratic).
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u3	At the request of the Minister of Finance, I propose that the discussion of the following draft laws be postponed to the plenary session of next week: - the draft law amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in respect of meal cheques and non-recurrent benefits linked to results (Nos 1131/1 to 3); - the draft law abolishing Article 19a of the Value Added Tax Code (Nos 1306/1 to 3); - the draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax (Nos 1307/1 to 3); - the draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax with regard to the dueness of the tax (Nos 1311/1 to 3); - the draft law finalizing the budgets of the institutions of public utility of the year 2010 and previous years 2007, 2008 and 2009 (Nos 1329/1 to 3). At the request of the Minister of Finance, I suggest that you defer the discussion of the following bills to next week's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to meal security and non-recurrent performance benefits (Nos. 1131/1 to 3); - the draft law repealing Article 19bis of the Value Added Tax Code (Nos. 1306/1 to 3); - the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code (Nos. 1307/1 to 3); - the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code as regards the chargeability of the tax (Nos. 1311/1 to 3); - the bill containing the final settlement of the budgets of public interest bodies for 2010 and previous years 2007, 2008 and 2009 (Nos. 1329/1 to 3). That has to do with the fact that the Minister cannot be with us and he wishes to see the discussion. So it will be scheduled next week. At the request of the proposers, I also propose that you postpone the discussion of the bill by Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings, Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke amending the law of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification with regard to the review of international treaties and agreements on policy coherence in favour of development (Nos 1149/1 and 2) to the plenary session next week. At the request of the authors, I also propose to postpone the discussion of the bill of Messrs. Wouter De Vriendt and Benoit Hellings, Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens and MM. Georges Gilkinet and Stefaan Van Hecke amending the Act of 15 December 2013 laying down various provisions on administrative simplification with regard to the evaluation of international treaties and agreements with regard to the coherence of development policies (Nos. 1149/1 and 2) next week. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u4	The next item is the government communication. The next item is the communication from the Government. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday three terrorist groups committed a blind assassination of innocent people. Des victimes innocentes dont le seul péché était de vivre en liberté. The attack in the heart of Europe comes on top of many other attacks: the Jewish Museum in Brussels, Charlie Hebdo, Verviers or even the Thalys between Brussels and Paris. These attacks took place in Paris, were decided in Syria and were carried out by French-Belgian cells. These attacks took place in Paris. They were commissioned in Syria and executed by Franco-Belgian cells. 129 people have died, 350 have been injured, some are still fighting for their lives today. Women and men, 19 different nationalities, our thoughts go to their family and friends. And we also think of our three compatriots who died in this barbaric act. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are angry, we are sad. By sowing death terrorists try to destroy our values, our freedom to attend a concert or a football match or just to relax. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we do not share the same ideological, political or philosophical beliefs, but in this House we represent the diversity of our people. Let us, more than ever, transcend our differences and unite. To unite us! More than ever, we must support our fundamental universal values, namely equality, separation between church and state, freedom of expression, tolerance and respect for others. They are and remain untouchable foundations of our democracy. Like racism, fanaticism is a poison, a poison that wants to cause division, a poison that must be destroyed. Fanatism, like racism, is a poison, a poison that divides, a poison that tears apart, a poison that destroys. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament and the government have a responsibility not to fall into this trap. It is the duty of all democrats, I repeat, all democrats, to fight fanaticism and terrorism, determined and ruthless. Let there be no doubt about it, we will fight against enemies of freedom, with full respect for the rule of law. The adversarial procedure, the presumption of innocence, the rights of defence, the rule of law, is the honour of the Democrats, of eer van de démocraten! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have of course known the growing fanaticism for a long time now. It is a phenomenon which is well-known and which at the same time is certainly the greatest challenge for our democracy and perhaps also for our generation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as Friday evening, Belgium's security services have been mobilised to obtain, hour after hour, the maximum amount of information, in full cooperation with the French services. OCAM, the Crisis Centre and the National Security Council have met on several occasions to take, often in an emergency, the best possible decisions. Enhanced control at the French border has been decided, as well as controls at airports and stations. Immediately, local police were instructed to increase the level of vigilance for public events, to strengthen controls. The recommendation not to go to Paris if it is not indispensable was communicated to the population. After the weekend, on Monday night, I called the National Security Council once again urgently to take note of new information leading to a re-evaluation of the level of the threat, raised to 3 on a scale of 4. Immediately, during the night, the Crisis Centre proposed operational measures and we informed the police areas and the various actors concerned. We also made the difficult decision to cancel the friendly football match between Belgium and Spain. The following day, the German authorities took a similar decision. The military presence was increased to 300 military personnel in addition to the 220 already mobilized. They are deployed in large cities for static monitoring missions. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the government agreement was put in place, we committed ourselves to taking the first steps to combat fanaticism and terrorism. Charlie Hebdo's attacks in January, like those foiled in Verviers, have, of course, helped to speed up and strengthen decision-making processes. And here too I want to be concrete. The Security Council has been installed. It met 14 times in a few months, often in an emergency. From now on, the army can be deployed in a specific protocol with our police forces for static surveillance missions, when the level of threat assessment so requires. The removal of identity cards is now possible for jihad candidates and the deprivation of nationality can be decided by a judge, in case of a conviction for terrorism. OCAM has started setting up a dynamic register to plug the foreign fighters. The ability to listen has been expanded in terrorist cases. Joint patrols in international transport are more regular. In budgetary terms, as early as 2015, the first steps have been taken: EUR 200 million to strengthen investments in security, equipment – I think, for example, our special units – but also for additional staff and agents. To be concrete, I am thinking of State Security, where 45 recruitments have already been carried out and procedures are under way for 28 additional recruitments. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few months we have taken a lot of strong measures, but that is not enough. I know, we know. We need to do more, we need to do better. It is an obligation to our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has chosen to make a strong decision, to send a strong signal. It is a strong signal that we have released EUR 400 million for the fight against terror. An amendment to the 2016 budget will be tabled for this next week. In 2016, an additional €400 million will be mobilised in the budget to strengthen the capacity of our security services to combat terrorism. In addition to additional budget, the government intends to continue its action in four areas: firstly, eradicate hate messages; secondly, concentrate efforts and resources specifically on individuals who are known as potentially dangerous; thirdly, strengthen the resources of our security services and fourthly, act at international level. We want to act on four axes. The first is to eradicate messages of hatred and violence. The second is to focus efforts especially on means and means, on individuals identified as potentially dangerous. The third is to strengthen the security capabilities of the security services. The fourth is international action. On the first point, we note that there is some form of banalisation of calls for violence or terrorism. That is unacceptable and we must stop it. The government will therefore strengthen the legislative framework to condemn and/or designate hate and terrorism preachers. I want to be very clear: we do not want extremist preachers in our country. Hate preachers can be placed under house arrest and deported. There is a legal basis for this. Therefore, instructions will be given to apply these provisions at all times and we ask for an immediate and general screening of all preachers present on our territory. We must also fight the calls for hatred on websites. We will therefore propose a law that will enable such sites to be closed down. Freedom of worship is a constitutional right, but places of prayer cannot be allowed to spread jihadism. Such unrecognized and often clandestine places of prayer must be dismantled. There must also be transparency about the financing of mosques, and so must funding from abroad. The recognition of mosques should be clarified. Finally, the training of imams in Belgium should also be better framed. Those measures are necessary to avoid all forms of amalgamation. The federal government is asking the party to start consultations with the Länder on these important issues. Next to this first axis, which is to combat hatred and calls for violence, I turn to the second commitment that we must make. The aim is to focus resources on those identified as potential threats and to make every effort to be able to identify them quickly enough. We will continue to strengthen intelligence services through recruitment, new equipment and legal means. In concrete terms, OCAM has already made significant progress in establishing a dynamic foreign fighters register in recent months. This bank should allow for a better flow of information between the police services and between them and our partners. During each attack and each planned attack, the terrorist cells were composed of foreign fighters. Preventing young people from leaving for combat or training areas is not enough. We must also prevent them from returning to our soil when they are not Belgian. For us, the rule must be clear: the place of the jihadists who return is in prison. [[Applause]] For other persons who are identified by threat analysis services, an adversarial procedure will be instituted for wearing an electronic bracelet. This will be part of a probative approach, aimed not only at encouraging deradicalization, but also at ensuring public safety. To thwart the attacks, the exchange of information between intelligence services is vital. For several months now, we have been working with the ministers concerned to set up the NRP to check the identity of passengers on high-speed aircraft and trains. The aim is, in particular, to prevent a passenger from boarding if he or she is on a register of persons who pose a threat. We will implement this long-awaited project. We hope that it can then be incorporated into the future European system. We also want to develop an action plan to support local and regional authorities in their efforts to promote security and living together. I am thinking in particular of the necessary support to be given to the Molenbeek authorities. Initial preparatory meetings have already taken place. The aim will be to link prevention and repression in a cross-cutting approach. We must mobilize efforts against all forms of crime – in which I include the illegal economy. Colleagues, the third axis is the reinforcement of our security services, police, intelligence and justice. In addition to the additional recruitments, it is essential to invest in new technology, such as voice recognition or ANPR cameras for the recognition of number plates. Our security services have also made the fight against the arms trade a priority, but this fight needs to be stepped up even further. In addition, legislation on special research techniques is being revised to extend the use of special research methods, for example for the arms trade. We also need to support our detectives better. Specifically, searches are now prohibited between 21:00 and 5:00 in the morning. We will abolish these hour restrictions in the context of terrorism. In the future, it will be possible to conduct 24-hour searches. Moreover, the restriction of pre-trial detention to 24 hours is a brake on terrorist investigations. We therefore propose that a revision of the Constitution be carried out in order to bring this deadline to 72 hours. We also note that prepaid mobile cards can be used to mislead our services. In the future it will be impossible to purchase these cards anonymously. Finally, we also want to modernise the procedures for certificates and safety notices. Controls will be further developed. The procedural deadlines will be shortened. The validity period will be reduced and this is, of course, aimed at sensitive functions. We intend to evaluate and, if necessary, adapt the regulations in relation to the concept of a state of emergency. Under very exceptional circumstances, it must be possible for the government, under the control of Parliament, to take exceptional and temporary measures to ensure public security. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to act at home but also at the international level. War, armed conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Libya, insecurity and instability in the Sahel are destabilizing factors for the European project. In recent months, we have seen an unprecedented influx of refugees into Europe since the Second World War. In full agreement with international conventions, we fully assume our responsibilities, even when the task is difficult. Thousands of additional places have been created. We know in this House that the basis of the European project is peace, stability, free trade, the free movement of goods and people. Strict control of the borders of the European Union is the corollary of the Schengen area. I am well aware of the words I will use: the risk before us is the collapse of the European project if we do not fully assume our responsibilities. Solidarity between countries is essential. She's not always on the date. We've seen it. There is an urgent need to strengthen the external borders of the European Union. This is vital for Europe's future. We must therefore work to secure, to stabilize the neighbourhood of the European Union. I am thinking of our strategic relationship with Turkey. For example, work must be done to enable Syrian refugees to work in Turkey. At the same time, we must continue to strengthen our humanitarian support in order to allow quality reception in secure places, not only in Turkey but also in Jordan and Lebanon. It is our duty, our responsibility and we want to work on it. We must also fight Daesh. Daesh must be fought with complete determination. It is a terrorist group that controls a territory, has an administration and has funding. We must not only stop its expansion. We must eradicate this terrorist movement. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, this government wishes to take on its responsibilities. Two weeks ago, we decided to mobilize the frigate Léopold I for an escort mission of the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier. This mission, discussed yesterday in committee in Parliament, was also confirmed by the government on the basis of Article 42.7 of the European Treaty. We are calling for a broad international coalition, preferably within the framework of the United Nations, because we are convinced that the political dialogue between Europe and the United States and Russia and Iran is as indispensable as it is urgent. Colleagues, we also know that, in such an international context, the Defence Strategic Plan is an important issue for our security. This plan must ensure our credibility and loyalty at the international level. It must guarantee solidarity with our allies. European integration and NATO engagement are and must remain challenges that are of great importance to us. This plan is well advanced. Recent budgetary and other arbitrations are expected to take place quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, these are the four axes and the concrete measures which the government intends to implement, but this list is not exhaustive. It can be supplemented and improved on the basis of operational proposals from our security services, but also on the basis of a dialogue between majority and opposition. All democrats must unite to strengthen our security together. I take the initiative to invite the Prime Ministers to draw up a coherent action plan. That's not all. The government also calls for a special parliamentary committee to be set up in the fight against terrorism. In this committee, all democrats will be able to take initiatives, debate and adopt legislative proposals. Parliament is the beating heart of democracy. There is no better place to take action for security and our freedoms. ) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days I have also had the opportunity to have contacts with my colleagues, in particular French and British. I have conveyed to the French President our country's absolute support for France and the full cooperation of our services. Immediately, on the night of Friday to Saturday, the Belgian and French judicial authorities worked hand in hand. Yesterday, a few hours ago, in Saint-Denis, an attack was prevented, thanks in particular to the information provided by the Belgian teams. During my contacts with British Prime Minister David Cameron, I also confirmed our will to exchange information from our services. Also, I do not accept criticism of the work done by our security services, and I would like, with you, to thank our investigators, our magistrates, our intelligence officers, our police officers for their courage and their mobilization in difficult times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u6	Thanks to our security teams, 160 convictions for terrorism were decided in a few months, as many acts of violence stopped. Thanks to them, attacks have been thwarted, as in Verviers, for example. Thanks to them, lives have been saved. I do not accept that our security services are wrongly endorsed. I would like to thank them here for their work. It's because of them that lives are saved. Colleagues, we take full responsibility. We have the will to be a loyal and determined partner in combating terrorism and ensuring security. Ladies and gentlemen, as we measure it well, we are probably facing one of the most difficult, delicate and complex challenges. We must keep our heads cold, because it is probably a new page in Europe's history that is opening: enemies without faith or law, who hide, who strike cowardly and who want to impose a totalitarian model. The freedom to believe or not to believe, the freedom of conscience, the freedom to express oneself, the freedom to debate, the freedom to caricature, the freedom to work, the freedom to leave, the freedom to love, in a word, the freedom to live, is not negotiable for us. There are no possible accommodations! [[Applause]] We know: the battle is not over. We do not make a choice between security and freedom. We are proud of our fundamental values. We are proud of the values we carry, the values we embody. We will not choose between the right to security and fundamental freedoms. We want each other, we want each other! As we know, there will probably be other threats, there will probably be more attacks. There will probably be other sufferings and tragedies. But we will not give in! No panic and no tears between us! Nor will we yield to the spirit of vengeance! Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to act with dignity, with unrelenting will. We will carry high the universal values, those of the Enlightenment, those of human rights. We're standing and we're going to move on! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since Friday 13 November, our thoughts have been on the victims of the attacks in Paris. We keep them in our minds. We sympathize with the families, with the friends, with the Parisians, but also with all the victims of ISIS, wherever in the world. We are fighting for them, we must be fighting for them, and democracy must also be resilient for them. At the end of his speech, the Prime Minister referred to the values of the Enlightenment. The values of Enlightenment are indeed the values of democracy. The recognition of these values is a basic condition for participating in our society. What does that mean? This means that we first define ourselves as a citizen and then only as a believer or unbeliever. That has nothing to do with restricting the freedom of religion. It is true that we are citizens first and foremost in society. I repeat: that is the fundamental value of the Enlightenment. That is also what binds us all in our diversity. That is also what makes it possible for us to fully experience our values, such as the separation of church and state, the separation of powers, freedom of expression, the rule of law and equality between men and women. We also need to protect those values. Those who know only their religion as a basis of law, are placed outside society. Anyone who also participates in the abomination of IS, is also placed outside democracy. Let's not be silly. Let's not talk about poverty. Our society offers opportunities, but we must also seize them. Those who are now leaving for Syria know very well what they are getting into. He knows very well what values he denies. He is well aware that he is participating in a totalitarian regime which is outside any form of state and which is completely outside of democracy. Afterwards, return as if nothing was wrong, that is not possible for the N-VA group. We are therefore pleased to hear that the foreign terrorist fighters returning will be kept out of society. It has to be. Our democracy must be resilient. We must have the courage to respond to this. The legislator and the government have a duty to defend our model of society. We have already done so with the 12 measures announced in early 2015, which were adopted in July 2015 and are now being fully implemented. With the new measures I have heard, we are strengthening our resilience, which is very important. The adaptation of the BIM and BOM laws seems clear to me. A voting database is a particularly efficient tool. The extension of telephone tap and control of Internet traffic also seems to me to be a clear sign. Extending provisional detention to 72 hours will effectively allow police forces and investigators to complete their duties. With regard to the possibilities for a search, it is also strictly necessary that the limit to 5 o'clock in the morning jumps. I have also heard that, in addition to strengthening our resilience, we must also extend the possibilities to prevent terrorist attacks as effectively as possible. Keeping records of passengers travelling internationally is undoubtedly an important element. Keeping other data, such as biomedical data, from dangerous individuals also seems to me to be a particularly important element. A repair of the data retention law is actually an obvious fact. The deepening of security clearance for sensitive functions will undoubtedly also help us to strengthen it. In any case, I would like to thank the government for these measures, which are not excessive. A democracy must be resilient. A democracy must also dare to be resilient. We are not at war, but we are in a situation in which terrorists commit acts of war on our territory. We must respond to that. We must defend our civilisation, our democracy and our values. We shouldn't wait until it's too late. We must not wait until the 9/11 of our democracy. In that context, the announcement that the strategic plan for the defence industry will be there is a necessity. We must invest in our security. If democracy is in danger, as the Prime Minister said earlier, we must also be able to take special measures. I therefore believe that it is necessary that the government should take them under Parliament's supervision. The measures currently being taken are strictly necessary. It is clear that special detection methods and special intelligence methods will be different after IS than before IS. With an enemy like IS one can't do otherwise. That radicalized people are out here, that we don't know where they are, obviously can't be. People who sow potentially blind terror, decapitate potentially people, burn potentially people alive, throw potentially homosexuals off roofs or potentially sell women as sex slaves are strictly necessary security measures for society. That is not disproportionate, that is the resilient democracy. Let us no longer be blind and let us stick our hands in our own bosom, for we have indeed been blind in the past. I remember reports and press articles about Sharia4Belgium, it was almost about some kind of Islamic scouts, about innocent behavior, about pubic behavior, but at least not about something dangerous. The rectional court of Antwerp has decided that Sharia4Belgium was a terrorist group and has sentenced Fouad Belkacem to 12 years of effective imprisonment. This contrasts with what was said the first years that Sharia4Belgium was active. In this respect, the Prime Minister has announced a number of measures, and we must be more bold. We must act against hate preachers and expulsion and be house arrests in this respect for my group. I also think it is necessary to seek recognition for mosques and to see what happens in those mosques. The need to strengthen state security is also something that we have learned and that we must implement. Then there is also the Molenbeek plan, which eventually comes. In 1995, that was twenty years ago, there was the trial against the GIA, the Groupe Islamique Armé. That group was responsible for many deaths in France and Algeria. Once again, there were attacks in Paris, especially on the subway. In the late 1990s there was the GICM, the Groupe Islamique Combattant. An attack was foiled that should have taken place during the football World Cup in France. There was already a connection with Molenbeek back then. A few days before 9/11, there was the attack on Commander Massoud in Afghanistan. The unsubs had a connection with Molenbeek. Afterwards there was Nizar Trabelsi, who prepared an attack on the aircraft base of Kleine Brogel. Afterwards, the hate preacher Sheikh Bassam Ayachi was active in Molenbeek. The shooter of the Thalys stayed with his sister in Molenbeek. Charlie Hebdo also had connections to Brussels. The guns were supposed to be from Brussels. The brain behind Verviers and behind the attacks of Paris, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was born and raised in Molenbeek. Hardly a few months after Charlie Hebdo we see Molenbeek again making the front pages of the international press. Mrs Schepmans, you said a few days ago that Molenbeek lived a long time at the stage of denial. You're right. You're right. You're right. That is the least one can say. It is staggering to find out what was said and written about Molenbeek. In 2011, a party chairman writes that this is actually about a new proletariat. In that same year, how ideologically blind can one be, another politician explains that Molenbeek was a social laboratory, un laboratoire social qui dérange et qui continuousra à déranger. The words were prophetic. We noticed that after that. What ideological blindness. I hope that phase of denial is now over. I would add immediately that there is no point in stigmatizing a whole city. That's bullshit, we all know that. Most of the inhabitants of Molenbeek have no standing with terrorism and strongly condemn terrorism. There was another meeting yesterday that showed that. However, it makes even less sense not to face up to reality. There is a serious problem of radicalisation in some Brussels districts. The fact that the name Molenbeek is such a big deal cannot be a coincidence. I would now like to address Mrs Schepmans, the new Mayor of Molenbeek since 2012. I will do it exceptionally in French. Mrs Schepmans, Molenbeek is no longer in denial. You have the support of the government; you have the support of a majority in Parliament and you certainly have the support of my group. I wish you all the determination and courage to carry out this heavy mission. Hope will come back because, indeed, Molenbeek is no longer in denial. We must fully defend our values and continue to defend them. That is the idea of resilient democracy. Our values can only thrive in a democracy. In a democracy, we resolve conflicts through a political, parliamentary debate. Those who do not respect that must be fought with a hand and a tooth. That is the rule of resilient democracy. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I thank the government for the result achieved. The measures will make our democracy resilient. The EUR 400 million injection is an injection into our safety. It's also a necessary injection. On behalf of the N-VA Group, I would like to thank the government for this investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism knows no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no borders, no Paris, Beirut, Brussels, Aleppo, a plane in the sky, France, Belgium, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, everywhere, terrorists cross the borders of horror. The French people, the Syrian people, the Belgian people, the Libyan people, the Iraqi people, the Russian people everywhere are the innocent people who are hit by these terrorists. Everywhere, it's innocence that's trapped and blown up by these crazy radicals on the terraces, in a bar, in a concert hall, on a market. That's the life they're tearing away. That's the life they don't like. These terrorists who sow terror are the enemies of freedom, fraternity, solidarity, humanity. Colleagues, these are our enemies. They live and have grown up sometimes here or sometimes there and have turned into ignominy, in violence, in hatred of the other, in the refusal of mixing, in the refusal of freedom. Completely manipulated, these mediocre packs are now remotely controlled by Daesh. This weekend, Paris was the victim of acts of war that cost the lives of at least 132 people. Young, old, French, foreigners, parents, believers, atheists. In common, their innocence. Today, we stand alongside France, alongside all those who are determined to fight obscurantism and terror. To do this, Prime Minister, we have no right to weaken ourselves. Since the beginning of these horrific terrorist acts, irresponsible people have spent their time looking for scapegoats, stigmatizing, dividing or even commuting. These irresponsible ones, Prime Minister, are our weakness. I would like to thank you personally for not giving in to this temptation, for calling on national union and for working with the Communities and the Regions. On behalf of my group, I obviously do not want to participate in any attempt to destabilise today. But, of course, we have the right and duty to inventory, the right and duty to question our international, European, Belgian policies and the effectiveness of our services. As far as the international situation is concerned, I would like to reiterate that the PS Group has supported and continues to support, unambiguously, our participation alongside the French, in the international coalition that is fighting against Daesh. We have supported our air operations over Iraq, within a framework that respects international law and a UN framework. I would also like, once again, to commend the work of our soldiers in this fight. This military solution has now lasted for more than a year. If it shows some success, it must be remembered that it cannot, of course, be self-sufficient. The solution must be global. Diplomacy, defence and development cooperation must work hand in hand, not to mention the essential support for humanitarian aid. No bomb, however precise, can bring lasting peace, help refugees or provide any political solution. We must learn the lessons of the Bush era and not duplicate the mistakes we pay the price for today. The cure can't be worse than evil. It must also be recognized that the West has not been looking enough with some allies who have been the main donors of movements such as Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State. To this end, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to add that the European Union is making a mistake by focusing on Turkey only on a request for the control of refugees and Greek-Turkish borders and the maintenance of refugees on its territory, without also calling for and supporting an active role for Turkey in the control of its borders with Syria. This is where Daesh has many supporters: oil, trafficking, fighters. A European summit in Turkey will be held shortly. You will have to address this issue. Combating Daesh outside our borders is therefore also the use of diplomatic weapons. It is up to the entire international community to literally and resolutely cut off the oxygen to the Islamic State by halting its supply of money and weapons, freezing its financial flows and smuggling, which finance their plan for a massive destruction of our rights and peace. Secondly, we need a regional approach involving all the countries of the region, with the support of the international community, with the number one priority to combat the Islamic State. The pacification and stabilization of the post-Assad region can only be assured once this fight has borne fruit, but to learn from the past, the political transition must be planned in the medium term and the remaining Syrian state must not collapse. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at European level, important meetings are planned. Some have already taken place at the level of Defence, of course, and soon at the level of Internal Justice with extremely important items on the agenda, such as the control of arms trafficking. What a mobility! This is amazing in the information that is given to us day after day! There is, of course, a need for a much more effective European policy in the fight against trafficking in firearms, as well as in the control of external borders, as in police cooperation, as in the financing of terrorism. However, one theme is missing: the organisation in Europe of a real security agency. Together with my colleague Dewael, we had already argued this at the time at European level. I know, therefore, that this is difficult, since many States believe that their intelligence services are part of their sovereignty that they want to defend at all costs. On the contrary, I believe that we cannot live in a free space for the mobility of goods and people without, at the same time, having protection by a common security agency. It is about our freedom and our security. Nothing is confined to the limits of a state. I therefore ask you to put this issue at the heart of the future JHA meeting that you will hold this week again. This security priority should not prevent us from developing inclusive social policies, which are a real shield against desperation and anti-system radicalization. Before turning to internal issues, a reflection on the reception of refugees: being the continent of human rights also implies that Europe welcomes in dignity and solidarity those who are entitled to asylum and who flee this barbarity. Seeing in our walls what Daesh is capable of in the Middle East must allow those who still doubted to understand what these men, women and children who are coming to us are fleeing. Let's go to Belgian politics. Our country was shaken by attacks and terrifying threats; you had responded in a 12-point plan. An evaluation is required. Were these the right decisions? Are they sufficient? We need clarification and you gave some of them today. For example, we have criminalized travel for terrorist purposes. Just under 150 people have returned from Syria. You're announcing that they have to go through the prison box. This could already be the case since the trip for terrorist purposes was criminalized. How many are in prison? How many are in electronic bracelets? And above all, what individualized follow-up for each of them? It is from this that we can develop perhaps more effective measures. You have planned to put the electronic bracelet on everyone who is a potential danger. Is this an effective security measure? I don't know. Opinions are divided on the matter. As you know, a bracelet is unfortunately easily removed. We will therefore have to discuss this together in this well-known committee which you call for. At the time, you planned to remove the passport or ID card from candidates at the start. How many people are involved? What is their individualized follow-up? It is on this too that we will have to discuss. You gave priority to cybersecurity. You have just added proposals to ban sites that spread hatred. We will be with you with all our strength in these new proposals. You are also proposing new extensions to the possibilities of search, pre-trial detention for terrorist acts. We'll discuss it. We agree, on two conditions: that it is for acts of terrorism, since this is an exception to our rule of law which you have recalled, and that it is not within the framework of special powers and that it remains under the control of Parliament. I would like to insist on that. You have also proposed new measures to exclude preachers of hatred and to dismantle unrecognized places of worship that spread the call to jihad. We will be at your side in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond this assessment, we must also agree to question ourselves. Since Sharia4Belgium cancer, metastases have continued to progress. We have to face this reality. Belgium as a whole is one of the back bases of terrorists. According to the information that has been made public, about 800 people are on the lists as potentially dangerous, whether they are in and out with Syria or likely to leave or particularly radicalised. While some have had fun and continue, abjectly, to stigmatize a commune, we know that all major urban centres are concerned in each of the regions of the country. Ten communes in these three regions are more affected by these phenomena than others. In the light of this finding, how can we not consider it obvious that the police force involved should be increased? I am thinking not only of the specialized units of the federal government but also of the local police that must participate in the individualized follow-up of potentially dangerous people. We heard yesterday Johan De Becker, the head of the Brussels-West zone, who therefore also manages Molenbeek, who explained that he was sorely short of 125 policemen today. We heard Vincent Gilles, the boss of SFLP Police, who goes so far as to say that the federal police are almost in bankruptcy, that he lacks 100 million euros to ensure the security of the police themselves. You have to listen to them! You talked about $400 million. Belga dispatches announce 500 million euros. Whatever. You have made provision for additional resources. We will be at your side to grant these means, which, I say clearly, must be additional means. And so much so, if because of that, our deficit is increased by 400 or 500 million euros. In particular, inclusive social policies should not suffer from the necessary investment you need to make in security. At the operational level, you are right, and we applauded you in this regard, to acknowledge the extraordinary work of our intelligence, police and justice services. Without looking for culprits to delude or reassure, we need to know if there have been failures, mistakes and mistakes. We are already waiting for the report of the committees, in particular the R Committee, on returns by mid-December, that is, those who have left Syria and returned to our country. How do our services detect and track them? How do they share their information? What are the contacts with other Belgian and foreign services and with local authorities? A more specific investigation into the barbarians who acted in Paris will be launched. I understand, of course, that, in the immediate future, we need to wait. The services are looking for some of the terrorists involved. That's the priority. But, Prime Minister, and I am also speaking to the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, it is important that this investigation begins as soon as possible and that in two months – I ask from this rostrum – it can reach conclusions. Why is it so urgent? Because, if mistakes or mistakes have been made, we must understand the reasons for not repeating them, because these errors have immense consequences for the safety of the people. So, to take one example among others, how can we explain that one of the authors who blew himself up near the stadium of France had been removed from the registers of the City of Brussels on the recommendation of the federal police? Is it really because the services were convinced that they had gone back to Syria or that they no longer had the material and human resources for the individualized follow-up of a person considered dangerous? Not to mention these two terrorist brothers Abdeslam, recently considered by our services as having no signs of threatening radicalization. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a time for everything and there are two ways to deal with this crisis: to appoint those responsible for the past, which does not get rid of the problem, or to assume our responsibilities. In recent days, a lot of eyes, words, and final accusations have taken place in the Brussels region and Molenbeek in particular. Behind the personalities who refer to the ball, it is a commune and a population that is stigmatized. It's unbearable and it's unfair! The call for the union of the mayor, I support it and I applaud it. But I, who am secular as many of you, also want to open my eyes to what the Muslim community is experiencing, which, in its vast majority, is innocent of all the horrors we are going through, living and going to live in fear of being assimilated to barbarians. " It's very important to bring flowers to our dead people, " says Grandma Danielle on social media, referring to France, "but the same applies to Belgium. It's very important to read the Hemingway Paris book several times is a party. We are a very ancient civilization and we will carry our values higher. We will fraternize with the 5 million Muslims who exercise their religion freely and kindly and we will fight against the 10,000 barbarians, who allegedly kill in the name of Allah." [[Applause]] That said, you mustn't hide your face. Some policy choices have failed to meet our goals of mix and social progress. Whether they are suffered or desired, it remains in our neighbourhoods far too many socio-economic, cultural or relational exclusions, and I will add too many folds to it. For my group, we must therefore combine repression with prevention and social integration policy. It is this comprehensive policy that must be opposed to terrorists, from the neighbourhood agent who can spot a young person who goes into a spin and could fall into the claws of radical movements, including the creation of a European security agency or the strengthening of means of fighting poverty or the redefinition of a Europe of humanistic values rather than a market. It is a wide range of means and actions that must be mobilised to defend our model of society and our ways of life, based on freedom, conviviality and living together. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. It's our way of life that we wanted to kill. It is our conviviality, our will to be together, to mingle, men and women, young and old, believers or not, whom these deprerebated fanatics want to assassinate. It is our desire to party on a Friday night, to do the ola to support a football team or to throw in a concert hall that these terrorists want to assassinate. But they won't win. We won't let them win. Let us be lucid: we will not win the fight overnight. It would be to lie, to lie, to believe, to make believe that the threat will disappear at the same time as the Charles de Gaulle advances or that a European data bank is born. The threat is there today, tomorrow, in the days and months to come and for the time it takes, we will have to live with it. Yes, I insist: to live with the threat, while continuing to live as we like to do. But I say: we will win together around these universal values that bring us together: freedom, equality, fraternity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday, as throughout Europe and the world, we were able to pay tribute to the victims of the Paris bombing and to express our solidarity with France, the relatives and families of the victims. We also understood that the face of this terrorist group had changed. Their targets are no longer just institutional and community. Every citizen is a target, regardless of his or her origin, skin colour, religious conviction, nationality. The purposes of these terrorists are clear: the destruction of our freedoms, our values, our way of life. Prime Minister, while our national community was still in the shock of the Paris attacks, your government has mobilized and taken the necessary measures: the deployment of 300 military personnel, border control, the level of threat raised to 3, a requirement of vigilance to the local police and in particular the operational decisions related to the investigation and the ongoing research. Finally, support, support and assistance to France in the field of intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, this extraordinary plenary session is not the first we have on the terrorist threat. In January of this year, Charlie Hebdo's attacks, the attacks programmed from Verviers and thwarted by our services had already brought us together. We haven't waited until January or the last few days to react. It should be recalled that Belgium was the first European country hit by a French returnee, who had coldly shot four people at the Jewish Museum in Brussels in May 2014. Through the agreement of this government and the twelve anti-radicalism and anti-terrorism measures, the majority chose to turn their backs definitively on naivety, the political cowardice which, perhaps for too long, consisted in trivializing the threat of radical Islam, not sufficiently recognizing the bridges between radical Islamism and terrorism, bridges sometimes shorter than one imagined. These twelve measures, on the contrary, have made us look at the difficult reality and the threat in front of us. It was necessary to strike the departures of jihadists to Syria and Iraq of illegality. We have lost some time in this area, but this majority has done so. There was a need to establish a National Security Council at the State Summit, which, under the chairmanship of the first, could, in an urgent, effective and flexible manner, define appropriate measures to deal with threats. We did. Passports and identity cards had to be removed preventively when suspicions were sufficiently substantiated in relation to departures. We did. This has prevented dozens of departures. The mayors needed to be given the opportunity to create local cells to facilitate the exchange of information and to ensure effective follow-up of Belgian combatants returning to Belgium. It's the "foreign fighters" circular. We did. Legal means to freeze terrorist assets or financing were needed. We did. There was a need to broaden the scope of specific research methods. We did. For such extreme cases, provision should be made for the deprivation of nationality. We did. The army had to contribute to this security effort. Despite some scruples, we did. There was a need for a plan against radicalism in prisons. We proposed it with the MR already in 2010, with Minister Geens. We'll do it. Let's also say that justice is at work. You repeated it: 160 convictions for terrorist acts. Of these 12 measures, all those that were to go through the parliament were voted on. Let us say that most of the time, apart from a few exceptions, we have received the support of the opposition. We have managed, sometimes in a difficult context in terms of the confrontation of ideas, to obtain an essential gathering of political forces in their diversity in the face of the threat. Thus, beyond these twelve measures, like the warning received from the Secretary General of NATO last May, increased attention is being paid by Secretary of State Franken to potential terrorist infiltrations into migrant flows. In terms of resources, too, action was needed. There is a significant increase in security resources for 200 million, including half a million for the OCAM, nearly 7 million for the State Security, 15 million for our special units, 12 million for the military in the streets, and 1 million for the ten municipalities most affected by radicalism. The threat has been assessed. The time we are living in is not the same since the attack at the Jewish Museum in Brussels and the departure of thousands of European fighters to join the ranks of Daesh. Although the number of departures is decreasing, they are still continuing. We also know that radical Islamism has taken root in Europe, and that is not the case yesterday. Many warning signals were already on in our country several years ago. Mrs. Onkelinx, I heard you, I applauded you. You talked about the failure of certain public policies, you talked about metastases. You chose the term well. But these metastases go back beyond the Sharia4Belgium phenomenon. No doubt, as far as integration is concerned, we have not always been listened to enough. On communitarianism, we may not have always been listened to enough. On radical Islamism, we may not have always been listened to enough. Remember, it took this Parliament seven years to accept our proposal to ban burqa, the standard of radical Islamism in this country. It is really collectively, in the gathering, that we must turn our backs on this period of naivety. It is collectively that we must, in addition to catching up with a certain delay, take the lead and lead the way at European level, taking strong enough steps to deal with the threat. Prime Minister, you have outlined a number of strong, important complementary measures - beyond the twelve measures already taken, which are beginning to bear fruit - that must support our action in the face of radicalism and terrorism. I want to pin a few. Of course, the means (without the means, we do nothing), the participation of new technologies in the effort in this field, the extension of police custody to 72 hours for acts of terrorism, the monitoring of returns, the monitoring of foreign fighters, their deprivation of liberty, electronic surveillance, support for local action, screening for access to sensitive jobs, the exclusion of hate preachers. The proposals we are making today are in line with what we expect of this government in this regard. If this government does the work that is expected, the parliament – as you said, proposed – can set up a special committee to deal with these issues. The MR, and I think that a number of colleagues from the majority and I hope beyond – I have heard Mrs Onkelinx – share the idea of this committee to deal with this issue in depth with all the necessary rigour. In addition to the government's proposals and plans, it is clear that Parliament must also take its responsibilities and the place of its own strong proposals. That is why the MR Group has tabled a number of proposals aimed at strengthening the armament and protection of the police, proposals also aimed at the cross-sectional harvesting of weak signals in the area of radicalism. A proposal is needed to better combat the apology of terrorism, including on social networks. We need a proposal that seeks to strike a balance between rights and duties and also to preserve our public freedoms. Beyond what is being done at the federal level, as you pointed out, we need to be brought together and the consultation work you are planning with the Ministers-Presidents is essential. Here too, this fight involves overcoming a number of differences and putting into practice national unity in the face of terrorism for the fight we have to wage. This is obviously essential. We must work with the Regions, work with the Communities as regards their social skills, their preventive skills, and continue to work closely with a number of localities – not just one but several – that must see the federal support in their action against radicalism. Beyond this national unity, iron must obviously be brought to the European and international level. Let us not be afraid of words, at European level, today the European Union does not fully meet its imperatives regarding the security of Europeans in the face of this threat. Some in the European Parliament continue to block the NRP. However, this is a security requirement. It is also essential to open up intelligence services, strengthen Europol and control the borders of the Schengen area. It is also essential to move towards an intelligence system that is more integrated, as we need a system for exchanging data on listed individuals, at least harmonization. We need more Europe in terms of security. If such tragedies, a threat of such a level, fail to mobilise European governments and bring them together, Europe will simply have lost that unity. It is a federation that we need, not criticism aimed at referring one another to the responsibility of a weakness. We need much more ingrained collaboration. Mr Minister of the Interior, you will visit the Extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council tomorrow, where three topics will be discussed: the fight against arms trafficking, the NRP and the strengthening of EU border controls. You have our support to carry the voice of Belgium and to record concrete and operational progress, but also to convince the reluctant. We no longer have time to see some partners take theirs too much. At the international level, beyond the demand for a stronger Europe in the fields of security and intelligence, it is essential to continue the war effort within the coalition without weakening. The presence of the frigate Léopold I alongside Charles de Gaulle is a strong act. That of our trainers and the further rotation of our air deployment with the Netherlands are also necessary. Let us be certain that the action of the coalition, made up of sixty countries, among which we must say and repeat, a significant number of Arab countries, has already made it possible to limit Daesh's expansion and influence over the region. Let us rest assured that without this intervention, this grip would not only be exercised on two countries, but probably on three or four, that Daesh would also be richer than it is today. This naturally leads us to an approach that goes beyond military action. We must also continue to hit that organization in the portfolio and better address its sources of financing, whose wealth is equivalent to the GDP of some African countries. It is important to punish those who support them, finance them, buy their oil and trade with these criminals. Prime Minister, we know that zero risk does not exist. We told the Belgians. You told them. They're aware of that. They also know that, in the face of this threat, vigilance and resilience are everyone's responsibility. They know that our administrations, our justice, our military, our police, our intelligence services are mobilized and determined to minimize this risk and to best preserve our values, our public freedoms, our way of life. All parliamentarians and mayors join me in welcoming this mobilization, welcoming this determination and thanking them for their service to our national community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u10	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is the second time this year that we have met to express our condolences to the families of the victims of horrific acts in Paris. Yet today, this has a different meaning than after the attack on Charlie Hebdo. This was not about the specific target, this was about making the ambition as many victims as possible, regardless of their beliefs, regardless of their political beliefs, regardless of their origins. Innocent people. People like you and I wanted to enjoy a concert, a soccer game, or a glass of red wine. Prime Minister, we support your rightful thanks and respect for the policemen, aid workers and volunteers who risked their lives and committed heroics in very difficult circumstances. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Friday's attack was an attack on our way of life, on our open, democratic, pluralistic society. Yes, we have differences of opinion, but we settle them with words, with standards, with values, with laws and with justice. Not with attacks, not with kalashnikovs, not with bomb belts. That separates us from terrorists. It has to stay that way, and it will remain that way! [[Applause]] These attacks, whether they take place in Paris, Beirut or elsewhere in the world, are shocking experiences. They scare us of what might happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, do not let fear reign. How are we supposed to react? By remaining realistic, by nuancing and not radicalising, not by polarizing, not by turning people against each other, but by bringing people together, through dialogue and by reaching out to all those who, together with us, want to participate peacefully in our society. Colleagues, a few months ago we were rightly satisfied with our security people after their performance in Verviers. You were right to do that. Now that may not be the case. Now there are questions. The attacks in Paris raise questions, especially as there are links to, among other things, our country. All cameras are aimed at us, in the capital of Europe. Then it is right that we should ask ourselves about functioning, about the security, police and justice services, about the approach. Let us do our research, ladies and gentlemen, but not to look for black pricks, not to recover politically, but to learn lessons from these events and to prevent them wherever possible. We've already done that. Our services, the P and I Committees, have already produced several reports on the issues we are debating today. They have made recommendations to the government which has also responded. We will also offer those answers in the coming weeks, months and years. There are tough points, let's admit that. There are difficult issues with regard to the collection of information and the flow of information that are so crucial for the detection of terrorists and terrorist networks. Let's ask those questions. It is good that the P and I Committees will carry out spontaneous research. Let us wait and see what initiatives are still needed and how we can prevent repetitions. It is not just a question of gathering information in our country, but also of gathering information and flowing information in and between other countries. They should also be examined. The answer last Friday is more cooperation, more Europe, a better Europe, a stronger Europe and not less Europe. Prime Minister, your government reacted quickly and adequately after Charlie Hebdo. Once you have implemented 12 measures, of which 11 have already been fully implemented, you are also announcing new measures. You can do that so quickly because you, with your government, have already prepared for the Paris attacks with your Justice, Home Affairs and Defence Ministers. That is why you can now play briefly on the ball. You have rightly said that it is not just about laws. We can vote laws here in this House, but it is also a matter of people and resources. We support your ambition to table an amendment to adjust the budget and to provide additional resources for those services that are directly related to our security. That is absolutely necessary. It is also a good thing that there are 77 additional recruitments for the security of the State at times like this. That seems absolutely necessary to me. The measures you are announcing are good. They will also comply with our law, our Constitution and international law in this area. You rightly said, Prime Minister, that these measures are not exhaustive. On behalf of our group, may I add a few more? We all know that there is a problem in our country and in Brussels with illegal arms trafficking. That problem deserves a very firm approach. We all know that two years ago nine suspects involved in illegal arms trafficking were freed from procedural problems. I refer on this point to Mr Becq's proposal in which we are suggesting that illegal arms trafficking should also be investigated by telephone tap. This can be done with respect for privacy and the rights of the defense, through the investigator's filter. The illegal arms trade must be dealt with hard. Then I come to a not so easy problem, Prime Minister: the organisation of our police in Brussels. However, it is not because it is sensitive and not easy that we should leave it unspoken. With the sixth state reform, we have taken steps forward by giving additional powers to the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region. We're not deaf to the voices of local mayors calling for proximity police and community service. Nor are we deaf to the fact that Watermaal-Bosvoorde and Uccle are anything but Kuregem or Molenbeek. But that is also the case in Antwerp, with Berendrecht and Wilrijk on the one hand and Borgerhout on the other. London has more than eight million inhabitants and a police zone. New York has 11 million inhabitants and a police zone. It is perfectly possible to work specialized and more centralised and yet have a fundamentally strong local community. By the way, we now have six police zones. The argument put forward by some fellow mayors is that this community must be there. Well, reports by the P Committee have shown that very good police work is being done in Kuregem and in some of the districts of Molenbeek, and I would like to add the West zone to that. Let that be said. However, these six police zones do not guarantee good local functioning. Prime Minister, this does not require a law to be sluiced by Parliament. This requires an adaptation of a royal decree, discussed in the Council of Ministers after advice. You have just rightly said that we must consult with the regions and the Communities. You have reached out to the colleagues of the opposition. We want a better organisation of the police in Brussels and we want to do so in consultation with the Region and with the mayors. Tragic incidents such as these must be a reason to move forward. Our group calls for greater coordination and cooperation and for a merger of the police areas in our capital, Brussels. We are not doing this because we say that a zone would not have happened in Paris. Saying something like that would be a bit of a scratch. We are home to NATO, the European Parliament and the European Commission. There are regular European summits. We cannot afford to take risks, not for our citizens and not for all those who do important private and public work in this capital. [[Applause]] Mr Prime Minister, you spoke about consultation with the Länder. Security is indeed not the exclusive domain of police and justice. It's not just repression, it's not just law and order. It deserves an integrated approach and other authorities also play an important role in prevention and integration. May I make a suggestion on this matter to all politicians in this assembly who are active in Brussels and surroundings? In Flanders the integration of newcomers is mandatory, with language and integration courses. That is a good thing. This is not the case in Brussels. There is an administrative agreement in the Joint Community Committee which wants to take steps forward. I'll make an appeal to all of you. I even call for more, Prime Minister. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that there is a need for the Commission to take account of the fact that there is a need for the Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that the newcomers are involved in the process of integration throughout the Community. Give them the offer so that they can follow the example of so many Muslims and other immigrants in our country who have come to live here, work and share our values with us. Reach out to them, but also make integration mandatory and consultation about it. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. There is no such thing as absolute safety. There will always be security risks, especially in today's international context. However, we owe it to the victims of Paris, Beirut and all over the world to reduce the risks. There is no alternative but to continue with courage and perseverance, protecting the core values of our rule of law. Those who wish to combat these values must be treated hard. May I refer to the words of American President Franklin Roosevelt? The only thing we need to be afraid of is fear itself. With that thought in mind, together with the Communities and the Regions, together with the opposition, we must do what is necessary and what the people expect of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'Europe est and état de choc; Europe is in shock. The terror struck Paris again three hours from here, barely ten months after Charlie Hebdo. This time, as has already been mentioned, terror was not directed against freedom of expression. This time it was directed against ourselves, against the citizens and against everything people do in their free time and in the experience of their freedom. Colleagues, this time the terror had changed shape: the terror had gone blind. My deepest condolences go out to all those affected by the terrible drama. We are in solidarity with France. We are all Parisians. We're all Parisians. Prime Minister, such terrorist attacks are frightening. They sow fear and make our society stand firm. At that moment, everyone is looking at politics for a clear signal and for action. President Hollande announced the emergency. He closed the borders. He addressed Parliament and the people. He declared: "La France est en guerre." Prime Minister, we must be clear. We are at war with terror and terrorism, not with a country, a people or whatever. We are fighting against terrorists and a totalitarian delusion. The fight against terrorism requires a specific approach. The fight against terrorism is different from a conventional war. Colleagues, we must learn from the experiences of the United States of America and the United Kingdom after 9/11, after the attacks in London and Madrid and after the invasion in Iraq. Our own war is falling far from home and putting the rule of law on the rocks with us, is that what we want? I'm asking the question. I'll pass for that. That is precisely what terrorists are trying to do. That's the trap they're setting up. What we must do is do everything that is reasonably possible within the contours of a democratic rule of law, without undermining our own principles. It's about a story of checks and balances. Mr Minister, the package that your government is proposing, and I shall return to it, is in line with that story. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is looking at Paris and it has already been said here that the world is also looking at Brussels. We foiled an attack in January and then the work of our security and intelligence services was praised, but the Brussels links were now apparently missed. A lot of questions are pressing. How did it go wrong? It is almost a ritual: after each attack the muscles roll and follow very powerful explanations. Prime Minister, I am personally convinced that our security arsenal is working. Justice, security and intelligence services have very important tools at their disposal. The restructuring of the police and the security services with the police reform was carried out with great unanimity here. There was also the creation of the OCAD and there is an obligation to share information with each other. Today, it should be remembered that we were pioneers in the European Union with this architecture. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not call that into question; we will not throw that child away with the bath water. Mr Prime Minister, what we must do is, of course, continue to invest in this security device, both in resources and in people. Our intelligence services, it was charged with speaking or know not enough Arabic. The Computer Crime Unit is undermanned, in a digital age where hate messages are spread worldwide. Our special intervention teams are waiting for additional equipment. We also note, ladies and gentlemen, that I often hear this remark, namely that we are not or are not always competitive with crime and terror. They buy a kalashnikov on the black market, while the police, Mr Home Secretary, have to wrestle through European procurement procedures in order to strengthen its arsenal. Minister of Justice, when you seek additional capacity for state security, it sometimes takes many months before you can effectively recruit those employees. But I do not think I would stress once again that we are short of information or intelligence. Today, however, we still lack resources, manpower and tools to effectively cash them in. We often know who it is, the radicalized ones, the returned Syrian fighters, but what do we do with that information? How are we supposed to follow them? How can we bring them to justice faster? Prime Minister, we welcome your additional measures. We have also shown in advance that we fit in with a kind of Belgian Patriot Act. I believe that we must always be able to maintain the balance between the security, freedom and privacy of citizens. New additional security measures must always be proportionate to the objective pursued, on the one hand, and the rights and freedoms of citizens, on the other. We will continue to review all the proposed measures accordingly. However, I am missing an important measure, as Mr Verherstraeten has already pointed out. I am referring to the unification of the Brussels police force. I believe in a big zone, too. I believe that, on the one hand, specialised services are perfectly compatible with, on the other hand, the concept of proximity police. For years, successive Belgian governments have bitten their teeth. Brussels politics is still at odds here. I believe that by merging the six zones, the security forces can gain more power. My group will keep knocking on that nail. I believe that we should also express our views at European level, and I look forward to the next meeting of the JAI and the Foreign Ministers on relations with countries such as Saudi Arabia. That is still the promoter of radical Islam, including with us. I wonder whether the balance of trade is more important than our fundamental values. [[Applause]] Our conclusion is clear, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Our device works, but it requires permanent attention and investment so that we can keep up. This will also cost us money effectively, but for our group, a security pact is above the stability pact. There's no price on safety. Finally, there is the question of how we can ensure that this hateful and violent exodus of Islam no longer finds ground in our open society. We must give priority to our rule of law, our democracy, our enlightened principles, our fundamental freedoms, the separation of church and state, the equality of men and women, always and unconditionally. So there's no question of that, never and nowhere. We cannot accept that certain individuals simply ignore our standards and values. We must dare to acknowledge, by name, that such people reside in our society, people who allow their entire lives to be dictated by a literal reading of the Qur'an, by religious laws that do not conform to our principles, which do not comply with our rules of the game, which actually opt for some kind of self-egregation. It has to be clear. It's a small minority, but that small minority exists. We have also made many compromises in our country. We have made concessions for freedom of religion. We are hearing unacceptable statements today about women, about homosexuals, about unbelievers. In some schools people dare not even speak about the Holocaust anymore. We have even arrived at a stage where we are discussing separate hours in public pools for men and women. There are limits, ladies and gentlemen. In our society, secular laws apply. We must not give in to that. With people who cannot accept that, with people who consider their religion superior, we cannot live together. Let that be made clear. Mr President, we have a beautiful society, a society that is open, free, tolerant. It exists today only in the grace of a number of principles, of a number of rules of the game. Those who respect these principles are welcome. That's always been the case. That will always be the case, also for the people who are fleeing the horror of war and terror today. Whoever is out there or up there, we must put a strong stop to it. We must identify and guide radical elements, prevent them from slipping, condemning them, using all preventive means such as education, street corner workers, integration pathways and local police. Prime Minister, there is also a need for more repression. There must also be additional repression if it is to be necessary. We must invest in both directions to keep our society free, tolerant and safe, open to anyone who wants to embrace this society with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of our group, I would like to express my sincere and deep condolences to the victims of the atrocious attacks and their families. Friday was a day of horror in Paris: at least 129 deadly victims and many hundreds wounded by very bloody attacks with weapons of war. What should have been an evening of music, dance and fun became an evening of blood, bomb belts and machine guns, with victims who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, something that could have happened to us all. I heard the news Friday after a nice evening with friends, a cozy evening like the people in Paris who wanted to experience Friday with friends and family, at a football match, a concert, at a café, at a restaurant. I couldn't believe it. Again? Where's that going? Where does this end? My evening started out nicely and in Paris he ended up in horror for a lot of people. That's how terror gets close, very close, and everyone wonders whether this can happen to him or her, whether people are still safe here in our streets, concert halls and stadiums. The fear immediately crossed over to everyone and everywhere. Is that fear real, is that fear justified? Yes. When even children start to cry spontaneously, that fear is spread deep and wide among people. People are scared, people have a lot of questions. We must not deny people's fears, we must recognise them. The terror also came very close, of course, because of the link with Belgium. We must not deny them either, but we must acknowledge them. It's just a fact that with every act of extreme violence in the last few months, there's been at least a link to our country. In many cases it was even organized here. The Jewish museum, Charlie Hebdo, Verviers, the Thalys, Paris... the list is getting long, too long. Colleagues, just what makes our society attractive is under attack: freedom, solidarity and security. The freedom to go and stand wherever one wants, the freedom to relax and have a pleasant evening and the freedom to disagree, but also the connection in society are at stake. The word living together consists of two words: together and living. However, we must ask ourselves whether we really live together today. Is our society really inclusive? Has integration been successful? The answer is clear: there is still much work to be done. You know what I'm worried about? We are now in a situation where it is becoming even more difficult and we-they-think will be strengthened. Communities will be set up even more against each other. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not let ourselves be separated. We must not forget that the risk is all the greater after such attacks. What kept me from the testimony of a classitularist of one of the offenders is her remark that he radicalized even more after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo. Please don't let us forget that. Of course, a third fundamental right in our society is also under pressure: our security. Security is an absolute basic right that must be protected without taboos, radically and firmly. We will never yield to terror and terrorism, of any group. Of course, then, the question arises as to whether we are doing enough. Have we learned lessons from the past? Should and can measures be introduced? Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty, as politicians, not only to recognise the fear of the people, but also to join hands and take the measures that we must take. Great words must also be followed by great deeds. I would like to call on everyone to work together, across party boundaries, faith communities and policy levels. Only together can we face terror. We must unite all democratic forces if our rights and freedoms are at stake. We should not play political games and not play each other. We have to work together. Acknowledged the fear together, but not stirred them up. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister feels the same way, pleased that the outstretched hand of the opposition is being adopted and that a special committee is being set up across party boundaries. That committee must indeed discuss proposals, but it must also expose the problems. The incidents in Paris show that a lot is going wrong. That is why this committee should also invite the Security of the State, the OCAD and the Federal Police, because they can tell us exactly where it is going to go wrong today. In this way, we can also make the right decisions on the basis of the right information. So we need to learn lessons and do better quickly. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to take the initiative today to set up this committee. Because we can do better. This can be done in the first place by carrying out what is already on the table. An action plan by the federal government, an action plan by the Brussels government, 55 recommendations by the Flemish Parliament, all of which are measures to improve our freedom, solidarity and security. That's all on the table. So, please, let us work on this and implement these measures. We have already approved measures here in Parliament. For example, we have amended the nationality law and made the departure to Syria a criminal offence, but many measures remain unimplemented. Terrorists do not deal with national borders, provincial borders or municipal borders. There is therefore an urgent need for more coordination. Our governments and our security services are still working far too much on an island. We gotta get rid of those bulkheads. That is why we are once again calling for the appointment of a government commissioner, who must coordinate federal, regional and local policies perfectly, so that we have a genuinely coherent approach to counter radicalism. No one in Parliament thinks it is normal for a returned Syrian fighter to move from one municipality to another with an anklet, because he is less followed and less controlled in that other municipality. We cannot allow that any longer. A government commissioner should ensure that the information is passed on to all those who should know, but he should above all ensure that something happens to that information. It's his job to coordinate that. This improved cooperation and coordination should lead to a much better exchange of information, not only within Belgium but also within Europe. Apparently, the unsubs were blacklisted. Then why couldn't we have stopped them? Why could they just cross border? The flow of information between services and between countries is extremely important. That indeed requires resources, more resources than today. It is not normal that there is only one half-time employee who detects radicalisation on the Internet. I repeat, one half-time employee. However, the Internet plays a crucial role in radicalisation. More resources are needed, therefore, to strengthen police forces, to strengthen intelligence services and to support local authorities. The local authorities, the cities and municipalities, are very well placed to detect and address the problems. Many cities are already doing good work today, with results, but they still need more support than today in these difficult times. Cooperation also needs to be stepped up at the local level, especially in Brussels. Some now point to Molenbeek. There are indeed problems, but make no mistake, because other Brussels municipalities are also called: Anderlecht, Schaerbeek, Haren, Neder-Over-Heembeek, Brussels. Again, it really doesn't help us to play political games and pass on the blackbird. Like I said, terrorists don't stick to municipal boundaries. We therefore believe that Brussels needs a merger of the six police zones into a single police area that is transparent and modernly organised, one that operates in the smallest neighbourhoods and streets. One police area can better deal with the complex problems and better deal with the international problems that exist in the neighbourhoods. Mr Hans Bonte has recently tabled a bill for a real war on weapons. We can only combat violence if we also tackle illegal weapons. Weapons are far too easily available in our country today. This is not a new problem, but if we want something to happen against it at last, we need a judicial cell to analyse the weapons traffic, with an annual report to Parliament to follow up the problem in concrete terms. Every weapon less cares about human lives. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that our party is certainly prepared to cooperate fully to tackle the challenge we face. We're willing to help where we can. With regard to the Brussels police zone and the war on weapons, we have concrete proposals which we put on the table in Parliament. They cannot be accepted or abandoned, but can serve as inspiration, helping to tackle the problems in a concrete way. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as a world without violence or risk of violence. We cannot promise a world without danger, but it is our goddamn duty to do everything together, but also everything in our power. It is our duty to acknowledge the fear, but not to awaken it. It is our duty to act so that people no longer feel excluded, but everyone feels really at home in our society, so that people should not be afraid anymore, but can go out on the street again with peace of mind, with peace of mind for a gig, a football match, a café or a restaurant. The challenge is great, but together we can deal with them. Together across party boundaries, across religious communities and across policy levels, together with all democratic forces. Only in this way can we guarantee freedom, solidarity and security for now and for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we were all shocked and appalled by the events that took place in Paris last Friday. Nothing, absolutely nothing can justify such acts. Those who committed them are barbarians. They must be fought in France, Belgium and everywhere else on the planet. Let us not forget that before Paris, there were Beirut, the plane to Sharm el-Sheikh and many other acts. In the face of such barbarity, you are right, Prime Minister, we must not let go of anything. Not about our security, not about our values. Do not let go and implement the necessary measures. These measures concern both the police and intelligence services, as well as Justice and our foreign policy. We welcome your willingness to work in a special commission that can bring together majority and opposition. In each of the four axes that you have developed here in the gallery, the reading grid of environmentalists will be to see if what you are proposing is effective. If it's effective, we'll support it. If this is not effective, we will propose alternatives. In the face of the blind terrorism that struck in Paris and threatens our democracies, there is no room for symbolic measures, gadgets that would reassure certain consciences but that would not change anything in reality. Only effective measures, those that really enhance our security, must be sought. In this brief speech, I would like to highlight two measures which, for the environmentalists of the North and the South of the country, are central. On the one hand, the strengthening of human resources. It's your third axis. And, on the other hand, the fierce fight against illegal trafficking, against the illegal arms trade. We would like you to make this measure an integral axis. You have heard it, first of all, we want to insist on the necessary strengthening of the human resources devoted to our intelligence services, the federal police, the justice system, the state security system and the ability to exchange information between the various services concerned. I do not intend here to generalize the use of computer or mathematical algorithms. I aim to strengthen our human capacity to analyse the phenomena and actors likely to enter the spiral of terrorism, whether it is inspired by Daesh, Al-Qaeda or any other form of drift with a terrorist and fanatical connotation. This strengthening of targeted measures also requires greater control over the electronic exchanges of persons identified as being very dangerous. It is necessary to blow up the locks of WhatsApp, Viber, Facebook and other systems that are currently too little accessible, when the need for electronic monitoring is clearly identified. In the context of the debates that we will begin next week in the various committees on the 2016 budget, we will pay particular attention to ensuring that the needs identified for human reinforcements are translated, in the very short term, by amendments. As of next week, the signals you wanted to send here must be translated into concrete terms. We therefore await your amendments. This brings me to the second step and to our will that you will make it an integral part of it, as it seems essential to us in order to combat effectively the proliferation of terrorist acts. I am thinking of the fight against illegal arms trafficking. Last January, following the attacks on Charlie Hebdo, we had somewhat regretted that your plan of twelve measures does not, as such, have a cardinal dimension in our policy of combating terrorism. We would like you to make this axis a fifth axis in its own right. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Belgium is now regarded by many European countries as a hub for illicit arms trafficking and trade. This situation must be brought to an end. This struggle must be made a fifth axis, a top priority. It is not normal that the Inter-federal Committee to Combat Arms Trafficking should not yet be operational. If we really want to be effective against terrorism, we need stricter controls on the sale, possession, circulation, import, transit and arms trade. My colleagues will be putting forward proposals, but frankly, it would be worth a whole line. As far as our international policy is concerned, in order to be truly effective in our fight against Daesh but also against the Assad regime, we must have defined with the neighbouring countries, with the Arab countries, on the basis of what is happening in Vienna and within the framework of the United Nations, a diplomatic and political road map for the entire region. Prime Minister, if we are to win the war against Daesh permanently, we must first win peace in the Middle East. Mr Jambon, in view of the remarks you may have made about Molenbeek, by choosing the verb "clean up", you have stigmatized, you have cast reproach on the citizens, the families, the associations, on all those who are fighting for the concrete and who are doing difficult work on the ground. Let's be clear! I do not want to deny anything of the past, of the difficult situation and of the serious problems that can be encountered at times in this commune, as in other communes, but what Molenbeek needs is not to clean it up as others have wanted to karcherize certain neighbourhoods. What Molenbeek needs is to help him rebuild himself, to open up, to get out of the communitarianism, to meet the many challenges that this commune and others face and, as the Prime Minister said earlier, not to clean up but to support Molenbeek. I remain convinced that if we all do this, this task is possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a week later, we are still looking for the right words. If I take the floor here, it is still with 'Of course great sadness' but also with restrained anger. Of course, there are feelings of fear, uncertainty and even defeat everywhere in this country. With me too, including with us, many Members of this House. After all, we are people, people who are once again confronted with unhumans, barbarians and barbarians for whom many people are fleeing today. Colleagues, so much brutal violence and such arbitrariness to never forget, not to simply go to the order of the day, to get far beyond the condemnation, to really tackle the issue, to work together on solutions. Here with us, but also in the Middle East. Preventive, but also repressive. In our capital, at local level, with the Regions and Communities but certainly also in this house. In the field of domestic policy, but certainly also in our relationship with abroad, for example our relationship with a rogue state like Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult times of fear and uncertainty, we must also almost force each other to give hope to vote in this House. Hundreds of thousands of people around the world have expressed a broad sense of indignation and disapproval in recent days. All over the world, people say "no" to violent radicalism, "no" to a violent interpretation of Islam, "no" to intolerance. In our country too, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a great deal of solidarity and solidarity. The Muslim community expressed broad disapproval. People who don't see that are of evil will. In my own city, Mechelen, I have Sunday evening which may experience harmony in the flesh at the foot of Firehouse Dossin: united, firm, clear, human. For, ladies and gentlemen, our bullets, our most important weapons in this battle are called hope, strength and solidarity. That's what these terrorists fear most today. Today, Prime Minister, the world looks to Belgium as a country of jihadis and to our capital as a breeding ground of violence and terror. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, hope, strength and commitment must be our main export product. To all those people who over the last few days have managed to overcome their logical fear and have come out and risen together, to all our compatriots we are obliged to do what can and must be done, not just to talk but to do, to do more than has happened in the past. Prime Minister, security must be our first priority, it is a human right. Allow me to add three points from our group. Firstly, and I agree with your words of thanks to the people on the ground, the research must now be our priority, we must not rest until all the perpetrators and those involved have been found. Rather than greedy responsibilities, that must be our priority. It is a good thing that our question was accepted for an examination by the Committee I and the P Committee. Let us wait and see and let us give the people on the ground, for whom it is difficult to work, every opportunity, every opportunity to do their job. Secondly, there is the strengthening of our security and intelligence services. Our group is ready to put its shoulders on that, to approve these funds and to advocate greater cooperation, particularly in our capital. Thirdly, there is the fight against the illegal arms trade. My colleague Van Hecke had to ring the alarm very recently after Charlie Hebdo because people are stalling with action. Let us finally make this fight against illegal arms trafficking a top priority. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem is not going to disappear very quickly. We cannot and must not put the phenomenon of violent Islam radicalism into perspective. I think that has happened for too long. Wonder solutions are nowhere in the drawer, not even in mine, nor in ours, but failure is not an option, it is not trying at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Dewael has said in this regard, and this effort must be well thought-out, well-considered, proportionate and efficient. It is not important how smooth and popular a measure is, whether it works on the ground or whether it is efficient and effective. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the real agreement we have, there we must respect our house style of freedom, equality and brotherhood, it must and will be our firm ode to the values of the Enlightenment, to Paris, as a true City of Light, today and tomorrow. My party chairman, Mrs Almaci, made a clear appeal earlier this week to join forces. That too is connectedness, which is also what people are hungry for today. Working on solutions across party boundaries. Prime Minister, I hope that this time your outstretched hand is genuine, that this time we will really deal with it together. Our group is ready to cooperate. I would like to thank you very much for the tone of your speech. I hope that we will be able to find each other in this semi-round for security and solidarity, for freedom, equality and brotherhood in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, they were young and they were eating life full of teeth. They were killed coldly during the attacks in Paris. Defenceless citizens, innocent victims in the face of fanatical acts. No fewer than 132 dead and more than 300 injured, some of whom are still in very serious condition. It is first and foremost to them all and to their loved ones that our thoughts turn. Our thoughts also go to the many victims of Daesh all over the world, including Syria and Iraq. Three dead victims on Friday are Belgian. Prime Minister, the relatives of these victims have not heard of their deaths from the authorities. I would like to ask you to ensure that their families are closely accompanied by all the painful steps that still need to be taken. The victims fell under the bullets of war weapons of unprecedented violence, in a form of barbarism that is also a crime against humanity. It is also a serious attack on our values: life, our freedoms, democracy. The worst thing happened. The best, too. Quickly, law enforcement, relief, caretakers intervened. Citizens welcomed strangers to shelter them. Social networks have mobilized to help find missing persons. Every Belgian citizen is also deeply affected by what affects our French neighbours. Since Friday, the police, intelligence and security services are with justice in the footsteps of terrorists. Here, too, we would like to commend their investment in a difficult and terribly demanding job. The time has come for absolute firmness in the fight against terrorism on the part of our country, the European Union and the international community. As a result of the events on Friday and the information revealed since then, legitimate questions arise. What was the surveillance regime applied to each of the known terrorists who were involved in the attacks? Were we aware of their precise course since their return from Syria? Has any consideration been given at any time to depriving them of their liberty? Did this question arise when they were asked fairly recently? Do you confirm that one of the terrorists came back from Paris to Belgium, that he was checked three times by the French police and that the police let him continue his journey? Is it correct that the French police didn't know that this terrorist was registered with us? Was there a lack of information between Belgium and France and, above all, how do you explain it? How is it also that the suspected brain of the attacks is in Paris, when, it seems, it was believed in Syria? Finally, what are the first elements of the investigation into the range of heavy weapons of war possessed by these terrorists? All these questions, we all ask each other. Everything in its time, of course, but all these questions will have to be clarified in order to learn all the lessons from it. The attacks in Paris were carried out by terrorists based in Belgium, in particular in Molenbeek. Belgian and European counter-terrorism strategies have not been able to prevent these attacks. Other attacks have been thwarted, but clearly there are loopholes. They will always exist, but they must be minimized. Belgium must give itself the means to act effectively, and first of all, Prime Minister, it is a question of sufficient budgetary resources, because the threat has grown considerably, even more in recent months, and savings have been made. The State Security clearly states that it is not in a position today to effectively monitor all the jihadists who have returned from Syria. The fifteen judges responsible for terrorism matters are completely overstretched. The police unions also point out that today the standard for the recruitment of new police officers is around 1,000 or 1,100 per year, while it is expected to reach 1,400 per year. Prime Minister, you announced an additional 400 million for 2016. Yes, this additional envelope is indispensable. This is an overly important element. We are also putting on the table a series of proposals and measures, some of which have been echoed in what you announced today. First, systematic measures of deprivation of liberty against jihadists returning to Belgium, in order to verify, irrespective of their participation in the conflict or not, their level of danger and to take appropriate measures. Those who do not have Belgian nationality must be expelled. We cannot take the risk of having dangerous, unsupervised jihadists in nature. The question is what will happen to the 170 jihadists who have already returned in recent months or years from the Daesh combat zones. Some information on the jihadists seems to be missing. We plead to strengthen controls at the external borders of the European Union, since, at present, only 30% of the EU's entries are truly controlled and set itself, as in the United States, a target of 100% controls at the external borders of the European Union. You talked about the Belgian Passenger name record (PNR). It is, of course, also a European NRP that we need so badly to be more effective. Finally, cooperation in information-sharing must be clearly strengthened among States. We can no longer think like a state, let alone in our regions. We need to think in terms of territory. Having a European intelligence service would enable us to be more effective. Secondly, the fight against recruitment, complicity and the apology of terrorism must be intensified, whether in mosques, after-room cafés or on the Internet, which is the method of recruitment par excellence. In our group, Georges Dallemagne and Vanessa Matz tabled a bill several months ago to quickly remove the propagandist content broadcast on the web. We also wish to reflect on the problem of weapons of war and clandestine markets. Of course, this is primarily a matter of human resources. Specific research methods could be used to combat arms trafficking related to terrorism. We need to be able to talk about it again. Coordination is obviously essential, whether it be between the different services, the Regions and the Communities, the federal and the communes – since mayors complain of lack of information on the presence of jihadists and indications of what to do and the respective roles of the authorities. Are it the municipalities that have to deal with this problem or the federal services? These are important issues, Prime Minister. We'll have to talk to them. Finally, as I have pointed out in some examples, coordination at European level is insufficient. At the international level, we must ask ourselves about our policy towards States that have supported ideologies in complete contradiction with our values and have contributed to the financing of terrorism. Belgium must also provide an international coalition with diplomatic and military means to destroy Daesh. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of terrorism? Terrorism's sole objective is to create tension; its sole objective is to create division in our society; its sole objective is to create a climate of civil war between communities. Democratic forces must unite and confront adversity. That was the meaning of your intervention, Prime Minister. That is the meaning of my intervention today. This is also the meaning of the call made by Benoît Lutgen several days ago, which he had already launched a few months ago following another dramatic event. We are making proposals, but we will also support all initiatives that will remove the threat and preserve the humanistic values of our European society. The right to physical integrity, to security is the first of all rights and freedoms! It is the one without which other rights and freedoms cannot be exercised and it is to guarantee this fundamental right that we must work together!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone was bewildered and shocked by the blind terror in Paris on Friday evening. The indignation was rightly very great. But one cannot be surprised, ladies and gentlemen. Last weekend's attacks were yet another declaration of war from radical Islam to the Free West. After the attacks in London, in Madrid, against the Jewish Museum, against Charlie Hebdo, this is a new sad highlight in a row of ever more horrific acts of violence by Muslim extremists. It was indeed a French-Belgian operation, Prime Minister. The police were French, the centre of the terrorists was Belgian. For once, I wish my party hadn't been right. In recent decades, Flemish Interest has warned and made proposals to prevent these situations. We have repeatedly pointed out the consequences of mass immigration and Islamisation. We have pointed out the dangers of Islam fanatics. Dozens of questions have been asked in this hemisphere about anarchy, impunity and Muslim extremistism in Molenbeek alone. Last week, during Question Time, we warned of the potential danger of IS militias disguised as asylum seekers not fleeing war, but coming here to wage war. According to the Minister's reply, it would not be as rapid as this. But a few days later this turned out to be the case for two perpetrators of the horror in Paris. The other perpetrators were home grown jihadis, as the destructive foreign press described them. By looking away for years, by ignoring and minimising Muslim extremistism, by a politically correct discourse in which the problem should not be mentioned by name, it has come to this. Due to guilty negligence. You've all put your heads in the sand and wronged the messenger. I have heard several speakers here refer to Sharia4Belgium, which at the time was described by the whole establishment as a group of harmless carnival lunatics. You did not mention, ladies and gentlemen, that the Flemish interest was the only one at that time to warn of the danger. We were labeled as a bunch of troublemakers, racists and Islamophobes. One was blind and one has neglected the problems criminally. This government too excels in negligence. The necessary measures were not taken. Think of the half-time work force who alone has to track down Muslim extremistism on the net. Two weeks ago, Islam fanatics, who openly proclaimed the destruction of the West, were able to preach their jihadist message undisturbed at the Brussels Muslim fair. I asked Minister Jambon in this half-round to refuse them access to this country, but he did not go into that. The budget, which is being discussed in the Chamber this week, clearly shows that this government's priority is not to protect its citizens. You will receive less funding for the State Security Services in 2016 than for this year. The so-called security commission of EUR 200 million, which came in the aftermath of the foiled attacks in Verviers, is simply deleted from your budget draft. By the way, this year you used that extra budget to pay back invoices from the Justice Department. Some of the measures now proposed are too little, too late. With an anklet one can still handle a kalashnikov. Extending the powers of the intelligence services and the police can only be achieved if the corresponding resources and resources are provided for this purpose. The shortage of staff in the federal police force has only increased under this government. In the list of symptoms mentioned in the newspapers over the last few days, there was only one missing proposal on the menu for emergency calls with dial-up 1 for terrorist attacks, because we will certainly need that. I'll close with a positive note. I have heard today the Prime Minister mention for the first time fundamental measures that we have been proposing for years. Don't give hate preachers the chance to explain their message anymore; take off Syrian fighters' nationality, don't let them in on the territory anymore; put jihadists in prison; close the radical mosques and stop funding them from Saudi Arabia. Only a strict policy that takes firm action against anyone who adheres to a jihadist or salafistic Islam, who preaches or glorifies violence, can bring solace. I hope that at last there will be a turning point in the policy and that this time it will not be just announcements, after which people will continue to muddle until there is another attack, as has always been the case in the past. I really hope that this time something will come of it, that it is not purely an announcement policy. We will see to that, because indignation is no longer enough. The denial phase is over. The vast majority of Muslims are undoubtedly moderate, peaceful people who shun violence, who reject the attacks in Paris and all other jihadist attacks, but fellow Members, who today deny that this terror has its roots in Islam, denies the light of the sun.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks in Paris once again force government authorities and political decision-makers to question each other. By their violence and scale, these attacks announce a long period of uncertainty and threats. We must have the courage to analyse these attacks as acts of war. The French Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, announced this during his remarkable speech in the French National Assembly, following the attacks last January. Our democracies are facing war. Of course, this is not a traditional war governed by international law. But we are obliged to wage a war out of necessity against the worst of threats, cowardice and fanaticism that not only harm the lives of innocent citizens, but also seek to impose terror so that our democracies will tip into the camp of barbarism. We must say this to our fellow citizens so that they know how much effort we will have to make. If we do not wage this war, the Islamic State will have such a grip on the gates of Europe that it is the stability and future of our continent that will be seriously affected. As soon as your government decides to participate fully – some initiatives have been announced – and with even more commitment of military forces to the great coalition of states that intend to eradicate the Islamic State from its presence in Iraq and Syria, my party will be at your side, Prime Minister. I had to regret the return to Belgium of the F-16s of our air force when, for budgetary reasons, your government decided to give way to the Dutch partner. We therefore look forward to further clarification from your Government on military engagement in the great coalition. The security of our people will be ensured if the Islamic State is destroyed. But it is true that it is not enough to win this war. This region of Africa will need to be stabilized. It is time for European diplomacy to prepare for the post-war period and to offer the peoples of these countries the path of reconciliation. The United Nations will have to take the initiative of a major international conference, not only to assist in the reconstruction of these countries but also to propose another path, another democratic model combining respect for the authority of the State so often threatened in these countries, respect for fundamental freedoms and religious or philosophical beliefs. Tunisia's example can inspire this development. There is also a need for greater commitment to countries that finance international terrorism. Too many European governments, and our own in the past, have shown complacency with Saudi Arabia or Qatar. It is time to make it clear to the countries that finance international terrorism that they cannot claim to expand their activities in our country. It is time to draft a law that will prohibit the financing of cults by countries that directly or indirectly finance networks of international terrorism. We must be determined, and this is not an infringement of freedom of worship; on the contrary, it is refusing to allow this freedom to be diverted by obscurantist forces that distort its reality. Prime Minister, we will also be with your government if it has the ambition to give back to the State Security, to the specialized anti-terrorism services of the federal police and to all the law enforcement agencies the means of the objectives that you are announcing. For years, State Security has been one of the government's most forgotten bodies of authority. There is little thought and even less willingness to modernize the State Security and equip it with the human and technological capabilities that its missions warrant. Your Government has also done little to undermine the budgetary capacity of this service. Is it worth recalling that the 2015 initial budget reduced its appropriations from 50 million to 41 million before, by means of a budgetary amendment in March, you restored the initial amount? In the 2016 budget, until you announce this morning an amendment of 400 million, not just for the benefit of the State Security, your government is also proposing a further reduction in the means of State Security by reducing its budget to 44 million. We will see how you will disaggregate the amendment you are announcing. The lack of staff is soaring. All specialists estimate that there is a deficit of at least 100 people in external services and 20-30 people in analytical services. The deployment of the armed forces in the streets, the unannounced police controls: all these measures, useful as they may be, have a psychological effect rather than real effectiveness in the fight against terrorism. He is not a specialist who believes that static surveillance measures are the right response to dealing with mobile, well-prepared and well-informed terrorist groups. First of all, any war is won by a good knowledge of the enemy through efficient intelligence services. Prime Minister, the international press is stigmatizing our country as the back ground of jihadism. This is exaggerated, because Belgium is not the only country that houses dormant networks of jihadism. But we must not hide it, the weakness of the resources allocated to the justice, police and intelligence services has allowed many jihadists to pass between the meshes of the net. It is a collective failure and a collective responsibility to provide a more determined response. Citizens are tired of poor discourses that seek to bring responsibility to one party more than another. Similarly, it is painful to hear a party of your majority, the N-VA, point to a single commune, Molenbeek, which alone would be the home of all jihadists in Belgium. So, I'm saying, we're gonna have to choose from the majority. Either you're in Eric Zemmour's camp, this madman, certainly perhaps friend of Alain Destexhe, but it's another mistake, or you're in the camp of the mayor of Molenbeek but we can't be on either side at the same time. It is neither credible nor respectful of citizens. The International Centre for Combating Terrorism in the Netherlands rightly pointed out that many Belgian jihadists are also from Antwerp, Vilvorde and Malines, and I do not have the outrage to accuse the mayors of these communes of being responsible for this situation. The majority make clearer choices about responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week's dramatic events in Paris put us all together with serious responsibilities. I'm all saying, I'm targeting the political world, the associative world, the actors on the ground. The challenge is enormous in Belgium, Europe and the world. Today, it is important to remind the House that the victims of these barbarians, the victims of these terrorists, were of different nationalities. We are talking about a great many nationalities, but also a great many different countries. Whether in Lebanon, in Syria, in Afghanistan, in France, in Belgium, let us think about all the victims of fundamentalist jihadism in the world. Prime Minister, I share your willingness to find solutions aimed at putting a clear, definitive stop to these barbaric acts in Europe and around the world. I share even more your willingness to respond to these terrorists than, in the face of their will to divide them, we want to oppose a unity of all the components of our society. All of our people, of any origin, together we will not fall into the trap of the terrorists. After all, what does Daesh want? Daesh doesn't want a military victory or a military score today. Daesh really wants to make a point in our society and create polarization of the different layers of the population. Prime Minister, you called for national unity. I can share this requirement when it comes to taking concrete action, and I will come back to that. However, I would not like it to prevent a calm and fundamental debate on the initiatives to be taken against terrorism. We have seen where this national unity led to the United States after the 11 September attacks. The American company has indeed opted for false solutions. That is why we must dare to hold a substantive debate. If anything has been missed in your speech, Prime Minister, it is to dare to address what gives such power to Daesh. I want to talk about his rise in power in the Middle East, which is his rear base. This is where jihadists return to Europe to terrorize our societies. To be able to block Daesh in its momentum, we must be able to cut off all its sources of financing and weapons, preventing this organization from selling oil. This obliges the West to critically review what it has done in this region. Today, we must dare to point the finger at the United States, which, in 2003, razed all forms of state structure in Iraq. In addition, the United States itself has developed a strategy to divide the population between Shia and Sunni. It was the American strategists who wanted to do so in order to gain power in the region and to break all forms of national unity. Their reports, as well as those of the U.S. Senate, show this to us. We must learn from it. My question is why we are not doing anything in that region today to turn off Daesh's crane. We will, of course, end up in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. How is it that none of the majority here clearly shows that there is the problem? I hear that there is applause in Antwerp when Saudi families invest 3.7 billion in the port of Antwerp. For that they give applause, although they are well aware that there is money behind it and that these families are linked to Daesh and Al Qaeda. I can hear our economic missions going to do business and trade in Saudi Arabia. When will this two-speed policy be stopped? When are we really going to dare take the bull by the horns? It's time to dry up Daesh's finances. It's time to dry up Daesh's arms import into the area. It is time to take clear and clear measures to stop this hotbed of international terrorism. With regard to the measures to be taken at national level, I am pleased to hear that additional funds will be released, 400 million, as we have learned this morning. I am pleased, but I sincerely hope that this money will not be raised from other social budgets. Because I would like to appeal to invest 400 million in the sectors of society that are doing work on the field of prevention, on the field of education, on the social field, to break in the egg the soil in which terrorist organizations build the balance of power in our Western societies. I hope to hear the government propose such measures in the coming weeks. I will conclude with the question of the specific methods of research. You know, Prime Minister, that I am very sensitive to this type of measure, having been tapped for having organised a demonstration in Liège. I can follow you as to the need to organise today an increased efficiency of intelligence services in Belgium. Obviously, there have been some malfunctions in our services. I can support my colleagues' requests for research to understand what did not work. There is one thing that is certain, as many French specialists say, our intelligence services have a problem. Not that they have too little information, but they have too much. They have too much to digest, to dispatcher, to analyse. I can only plead before the House that the measures should be targeted at recruiters, at those who organise the transfer of these young people to Syria, at those who actually organise terrorist networks and not at too widespread a listening, as has been done in the United States of America, and as Edward Snowden has shown. This has not strengthened democracy in the United States of America, but rather restricted it. Together, let us be ruthless towards these terrorist networks, but let us also be ruthless to maintain a united and united society!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in France, nearly 500 innocent people have been wounded, maimed and traumatized for life. The worst is to come in Europe in view of the hegemonic will of radical Islam. They have human resources, money and the taste of death. Only our mobilization and determination will stop them. The fight will be long. No one can doubt that. Today, Belgium is being pointed out throughout the world for its laxism towards Islamism, the fruit of the complacency of the past thirty years, of the political and intellectual world and of the weakening of the State, which is failing to carry out its regal missions. We have been denouncing this fact for many years. It's time to react. To win this fight, a single principle should guide us: benevolence to those who respect our values and want to contribute to the common well-being, but implacable and immediate struggle against our declared enemies. Those who do not like our country and our values must leave it. Prime Minister, you have announced that you want to take firm action. As a member of one of the parties that contribute to the right in the democratic debate, I propose that your government adopt, within the framework of a national union against terrorism that you wish, a series of measures necessary to prepare our country for the fight and to face the immediate threat: the establishment of a national guard on the model of the American National Guard. The French President has just made the proposal. Our police force and the operational forces of the army are insufficient in the event of disturbances, since the end of compulsory conscription: the obligation for the police and certain members of the armed forces, the special forces, to carry their handgun at all times in a discreet manner, in order to face opportunistic terrorist threats. Experience in some countries clearly shows that armed and trained men are able to quickly stop terrorist actions, thereby limiting the number of innocent victims. The State Security must be strengthened by an immediate increase in its budget of 200 per cent, as a result of which it is unable to follow all the alleged cases of Islamism that it is supposed to deal with and control. There must be a ban on the return of Belgians with dual nationality who are going to fight in Syria and Iraq in the ranks of the Islamic State or other terrorist formations, immediately depriving them of Belgian nationality. Your government did not consider the bill in the sense that I had tabled in its time. We see today President Hollande proposing an identical measure. There must be immediate expulsion of the Wahhabi Salafist Imams who preach hatred, be they Saudis, Kuwaitis or others. The imam of Verviers, whose expulsion had been announced, always travels freely in our territory. There is a need to re-establish permanent controls at the borders of Belgium and to abandon the Schengen agreements, to be renegotiated at European level. The Islamic cultural centre in Belgium, financed by Saudi Arabia and the Salafist nerve centre in Brussels and all Salafist mosques, must be closed down. Let us implore preachers who are trained in our values! Hate preachers should be prohibited from participating in the Muslim fair in Brussels. Again this year, the fourth Muslim fair hosted Salafist preachers who publicly authorized suicide bombings in the countries of Dar al-Harb, non-Muslim countries, while banning them on Islamic soil. It was a week ago, before the attacks in Paris. There is a need for control of the Salafist community radio stations in Brussels and Antwerp, as well as the withdrawal of their licences and subsidies. We need a systematic blocking of Islamic sites on our Internet networks to counter self-radicalization. Mr Prime Minister, without these strong measures, alone in a position to reduce the terrorist threat and, more generally, the rise of fundamentalism, our democracies will not be able to face this relentless enemy and its inhumane methods. We are ready to lend our unconditional support to these measures. Mr Prime Minister, our fellow citizens would not understand that you were not at least in step with the measures decided by the Socialist Presidency in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u20	Mr President, we agreed with the opposition leaders that I would say a short reply. I just want to thank you all for the strong messages. Today may be an important moment in our parliamentary history. Everyone has delivered the same message in their own words. With different words, the message we have given is a clear message. The challenge we face is difficult, complex. It is a question of raising the values of freedom, fundamental values, universal values and resisting an approach aimed at creating oppression and, let us say, a form of totalitarianism. I call on all parliamentarians, all democrats to be brought together. We will still have a great deal of opportunity to debate, to discuss and not always agree on measures and means, but I am convinced that the quality of the democratic debate must be able to prevail. Now more than ever, with a word, let us be gathered, mobilized and, beyond speeches, let us move on to action. Let's get to work! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-19-54-plenair-ip081x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. I understand that there would be no more lines. This means that we will end and resume our work here at 2:15 p.m. on the oral questions. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 November 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 November 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
