ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the coalition agreement requires that the various market regulators, each in their own market today, will work together to ensure fair competition and consumers' rights. It will examine to what extent they can create a single authority for consumers and the market, as in the Netherlands. To this end, we will evaluate the powers, in order to create synergies and to strengthen their functioning. This initiative can provide a centralisation of expertise, a stronger specialisation and a more efficient functioning. I have already put a general question to your colleague, Minister Peeters, but the questions I address to you are more specific about the BIPT aspect in this story. Minister, what structure is the purpose of this operation? How do you see the BIPT evolve in that? What tasks do you think should be integrated across the regulators and merged operationally? What steps do you plan to take to achieve that new structure? What initiatives have you already taken in this regard to strengthen the synergy between the various regulators? What has already happened in the field of BIPT?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u2	Madam President, I have first, by means of a recently published law, strengthened the regulator's independence in order to stop the EU's infringement proceedings against Belgium. In a second phase, in consultation with BIPT, it will now be examined how its substantive, strategic, operational and financial independence can be further strengthened. In connection with the reform of regulators, an efficiency exercise was launched. On the basis of this exercise, it will be examined which structure is most appropriate and in which areas more efficiency can be achieved. However, it is still too early to move certain slopes forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u3	Madam President, Minister, your answer is a little vague and general. I had hoped that we would be a few steps further and that there was already a basis for an evaluation, a small part of a study at the BIPT. I hope that will be done soon. The first step, that independence, of course, is there. We have insisted very strongly on this over the last four years, and that is indeed a major step forward, or rather a step backwards from the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u4	Madam President, Minister, as you know, "triple play" refers to a type of commercial offer that operators make available to their subscribers by bringing together three services: Internet access, fixed telephone and digital television. In Belgium, three companies dominate this market: the two cable operators, VOO and Telenet, on the one hand, and Proximus, on the other. The IBPT, the Telecom Constable, recently published its third comparative study of the price level of telecommunications products. This study is an in-depth analysis of the tariffs of the various Belgian operators. It also helps to determine whether consumers in our country pay more or less than in neighbouring countries. As far as triple play is concerned, the IBPT's finding is without appeal: it is still too expensive in Belgium, especially if we compare the rates with those in force in our closest neighbours, namely France, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. The IBPT sees this as a consequence of very relative competition between the three companies mentioned above. An article in the weekly Trends-Tendances of 22 January 2015 shows that the finding is valid for all packages, that they are those with very high speed (although this type of subscription costs on average 74 euros in Belgium, it costs only 36 euros in France, or more than half), at medium speed (62 euros against 54 euros in the Netherlands, for example) and for the triple play "low cost" (55 euros on average in Belgium compared with 36 euros in France). Such amounts are obviously not to the benefit of consumers! Minister, in general, what does the latest IBPT study inspire you to do? Do you agree with the IBPT that the important price differences between Belgium and its neighbours are in particular generated by relative competition between our operators? How can we explain that the Dutch market, which is similar in size to ours, has more attractive offers for the consumer? Do you think that the Belgian legislation currently in force offers sufficient tools to stimulate competition and lead to lower prices in the field of triple packs? Finally, how do you think you can remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u5	Mr Friart, the IBPT study showed that telecom prices are on average, compared to neighbouring countries. This also applies in particular to triple play prizes. I believe that we should not just be on average, we should be ambitious and tend to the lowest prices. There are obviously not enough cheap offers in Belgium at the moment. The Netherlands is in fact cheaper than Belgium for bundled offers, as long as the costs of communications are not recorded, since they are much higher than in Belgium. If bundled offers are more expensive in Belgium, it is, on the one hand, because television rights are higher and, on the other hand, because Belgians are less inclined to change operators than the Dutch, which also reduces competition in the market. With a view to improving Belgium's position, I would like to make it easier to move from one operator to another in the future. I will present by the summer truce a royal decree that will govern the change of operator. The regulatory framework must also contribute to this. I refer in particular to the opening of Belgacom's IPTV platform and to regulated access to the cable network. With regard to the latter, the IBPT is currently working on a review of the conditions to which alternative operators may have access. All these measures are supposed to boost the market and stimulate competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u6	Minister, thank you. I note that communications are more expensive in the Netherlands and that television rights are higher in us. As you say, it is important that we can facilitate the transition from one operator to another. Thank you for your concern about this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u7	Minister, you have undoubtedly seen BIPT's investigation into the correct compliance with Articles 122 and 123 of the Law of 13 June 2005, the telecoms Act. This shows that both transparency on the part of operators and the way in which these operators deal with their subscribers' consent is inadequate. There seems to be uncertainty about the data to be processed and about the content of the processing. For example, one does not ask permission for processing, but assumes a supposed consent. There is also not always a possibility to withdraw the consent, or it is unclear. Finally, contracts with third parties do not provide sufficient guarantees that the communication data will be processed in accordance with the law. This concerns privacy in general, but it concerns matters that are specific and additional to the telecoms law, with specific telecoms provisions for operators. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, how long can an operator continue to process traffic and location data from a customer after he cancels his subscription? If I cancel my subscription with a particular provider, how long can it store or process my data? Secondly, how should operators notify their users of the processing of communication data? If this is to be done by means of standard forms, what exactly should be communicated to the subscriber in that document? What should the subscriber know about the processing? Thirdly, how should operators allow subscribers to withdraw their consent to data processing? I suppose we should always be able to withdraw that consent. In what way should this be possible and to what extent should it be possible? Fourthly, to what extent can operators rely on the customer's automatic consent to use his traffic and location data, by including it in the general terms and conditions of a contract? Fifthly, to what extent can an operator enter into a contract with a third party on the communication data of its customers, in which such data cannot be retrieved or destroyed, so that that third party can freely have that data? If I'm a customer with a particular operator, who sells my data to an advertiser, and I leave that operator, but my data stays with that advertiser, that seems to me to be a strange situation. Sixthly, in the context of the processing of subscribers' data, how do you intend to increase the transparency of operators? Seventh, how do you intend to implement the guarantees under Articles 122 and 123 of the law on electronic communications? Finally, these are separate provisions in the telecoms Act. They can, of course, deviate from provisions that apply elsewhere, particularly in the case of over-the-top players, not only in telecoms but also in other markets. To what extent do they differ for other sectors and what is the ratio behind a specific deviation for telecom operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u8	Articles 122 and 123 of the telecoms Act do not prohibit the processing of traffic data after the customer has canceled his subscription. For marketing purposes, however, the subscriber's consent is required and has the possibility to withdraw his consent at any time. The law does not prescribe how operators should ask for the consent of their customers. According to the articles cited, authorisation is only granted where it is freely, for specific purposes and sufficiently informed. It is essential that the subscriber has a real choice whether or not to give his consent without having repercussions on his subscription. The law does not prescribe how the consent can be withdrawn. However, there is no reason why the withdrawal of consent for the processing of personal data would be more difficult or complex than the cancellation of the subscription, which can be done in any written way, through a clearly disclosed address by the operator. The European Court of Justice states in judgment C-119/12 of 22 November 2012 that third party operators must conclude contracts providing for the lawful processing of traffic data. In other words, it must guarantee the same level of protection as that laid down in Article 122 of the telecoms Act and the operator must be able to verify compliance by the third party at any time. Moreover, this is similar to the provisions of the privacy law, in particular Article 21, first paragraph of that law, in which the export of personal data to countries outside the EU is permitted in principle only if those countries provide an adequate level of protection. The BIPT has found that both the transparency of operators and the way in which operators deal with their subscribers' consent are inadequate. The BIPT will therefore examine how existing shortcomings can be addressed in the follow-up to the study with the stakeholders. Articles 122 and 123 of the telecoms Act are a consequence of the harmonisation of Member States' rules on the processing of personal data in the telecoms sector. There is no harmonisation in relation to the processing of personal data in other sectors today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u9	Minister, there is indeed no question of harmonisation. That is, of course, a strange situation. One of the elements is perhaps that the level playing field between the over-the-top players and the classic operators leaves something to be desired. It is of course a very good thing that the BIPT has carried out a specific study on this issue. That was a step forward. Could this possibly be repeated in other sectors? The Privacy Commission is apparently a little less proactive in that respect than the BIPT. I assume she can take an example of this and I hope that the matter will be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u10	Madam President, Minister, my question dates from 10 February. In addition to the creation of your Digital Minds group, there is now the presentation of the Digital Belgium platform, with which you wish to boost the digital economy in our country. You are also talking very extensively about the starters. This seems very important to me. In this context, I have already called for a better legal framework for innovative procurement during the previous legislative period. In other countries, for example, with the SBIR programme in the United Kingdom, we see that a certain percentage of the volume of public procurement is specifically reserved for new products, new services or new businesses. Not so much because of the new for the new, but primarily to prevent public authorities, public administrations and public enterprises from focusing too much on proven technology and not being open to new things. I can give a number of examples from my time at iMinds, when in calls for tenders in these digital times they talked specifically about analogue CCTV cameras. Of course, that's a common disease, a mindset in the administration. No official will get a negative evaluation because he placed an order at Microsoft or IBM that went wrong. However, he must be afraid of this when he does this at a start-up company and this is very unfortunate. I think we really need to get rid of this. Moreover, a positive attitude towards products, services or companies not only contributes to a generally better environment for these companies, but in many cases they can be a first reference customer. They can be their first customer on which they may even make losses, but where they can perfect their technology, allowing the company to grow. The government agreement explicitly provides a legal framework for innovative procurement in order to give innovative start-ups opportunities and makes it clear that public authorities should be open to new products, new services and new businesses. I therefore have a number of questions. Firstly, what is the status of a legal framework for innovative procurement? Secondly, in addition to the theory, there is, of course, also the practice. I have just given an example. How can you change the mindset in this area in our public services, so effectively in the workplace, so that we are also open to new digital services and businesses? Thirdly, to what extent was the innovative procurement model for digital start-ups already discussed at the consultation of federal IT managers? What are the consequences of this? The IT managers see each other on a regular basis. I assume that this point has been discussed there and that there have been consequences. Fourthly, what will you concretely do to strengthen the mindset with the IT managers in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u11	Madam President, the new EU Directives 2014/24 and 2014/25 on public procurement allow Member States to provide that contracting authorities may use a competitive procedure with negotiation or a competitive dialogue for the purchase of works, supplies or services related to innovative solutions and that the innovation partnership procedure may be used to develop innovative services, products or works and subsequent procurement. In doing so, the contracting entity may decide to conclude the innovation partnership with one partner or with several partners with separate research and development activities. It is the Commission responsible for public procurement in the departments of the Prime Minister for the transposition of these directives. In any event, it is the intention of the Belgian legislature to include the scope of application of the Directive in the Belgian rules on public procurement. The FPS Economy wants to play a leading role in digital government by offering innovative applications to citizens and businesses, and by pursuing a progressive policy on open data and optimally digitising information flows, both within the FPS and between the FPS and its main customers. Fedict examines with the various parties concerned how this is possible in public procurement legislation. As soon as it takes a concrete form, the permanent ICT Steering Committee will be consulted. In addition, a proposal was made to the Vzw Startups.be to provide someone from the Fedict innovation cell for 12 to 24 months, who would specifically focus on the field of start-ups and open data in order to stimulate start-ups in this context. A vacancy was issued for this purpose. Public contracts awarded by Fedict are already taking into account start-ups and SMEs in the following ways. This can be done, for example, by minimising the administrative burden on access rights. It can also be done by limiting the requirements for qualitative selection, so that these companies can compete. There is also the possibility of concluding framework agreements with several service providers who can then compete on a contract basis. This can, I believe, serve as an example for the other public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u12	Minister, Fedict is indeed making good progress. Of course, as you say, this is an example for other public services. It is important that this applies not only to Fedict but also to all public services. Fedict is not the IT organization of the entire federal government, by the way. Finance is almost the largest IT company in the country. I believe that this issue deserves follow-up, but there is still work to be done for you. I am thinking in particular of a screening of tenders. Indeed, Fedict will not do so anymore, but all too often, tenders contain high thresholds that make it difficult for SMEs and start-ups. Sometimes people even demand that a company exists for at least three years. I think that's absurd. This explicitly excludes start-ups. Such demands absolutely must come out. So it would be good to have a proactive approach, not just with your own Fedict but with the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u13	Madam President, Minister, during your policy statement I made a statement in which I advocated a real mobile first strategy. I have also provided you with a chart of market data on media use in preparation for my question. You will notice clearly that mobile use is advancing exponentially and is undoubtedly the most popular and most widely used medium for the consumer in 2015. We must not be left behind in this respect. We must be present at least in this way and offer our services. You will notice that even today there is an increase in mobile banking, which is on its way to becoming number one. The need for such a mobile strategy that brings government closer to citizens and helps people across the digital divide through user-friendly and innovative mobile eGov applications is high. The threshold is the lowest. Such a strategy is a necessity. You will notice that less than 30% of families have a card reader for the eID, although the eID is already a few decades old, let alone those people can work with it and remember their PIN code. However, today the number of smartphones and tablets is increasing exponentially. The government is the last party to make that change. The banks have been ahead of us for a long time. People seem to have faith in those mobile apps, despite the sensitivity in our finances. To make that change, of course, the government must first have a mobile authentication system, which is much more user-friendly than the eID with the corresponding container. Through Belfius we now have a tray that is separate from the PC and with which there are no installation problems anymore. However, the user must still carry the tray. Someone who wants to look at something on the train usually doesn't carry that tray. A system without a tray, as is increasingly evident in the banking applications today, therefore seems essential to me. Apparently, you did bring your tray. I don't have that. With the arrival of Apple Pay and Konsorts, even decisive thought is being given to abolishing the bank card. That's a step further. Estonia is the forerunner in this respect. Every citizen inside and outside Estonia can now even request an Estonian eID, which can be logged into the Estonian eGov system as well as into the system of other Member States. I noticed that you also paid a work visit to Estonia during the crocus holiday, which is really the example in that regard. That's why I have a few questions for you. First, what is the impact of Regulation No. 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market today and in the near future for our eGov systems? This should allow Esten to log in to us with their user-friendly system. Is there a plan to make our systems compatible? How concrete is that plan? What about planning, implementation and costs? Secondly, what is our country's strategy for dealing with this regulation? Estonia is very proactive in this respect and opts for the flight ahead. What are we doing? Thirdly, already under Secretary of State Van Quickenborne the mobile eID was experimented with. How has that system evolved in the meantime? Are there plans to allow mobile log-in to the federal authentication system without eID and without a card reader? In what ways? What is your long-term view of this? What is the status of operating systems and encryption operations that can make implementation difficult? There are different ecosystems for smartphones. How can we make the eID compatible? What did you learn about mobile eID during your last visit to Estonia? Where do you want to be in this legislature in five years' time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u14	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, the European regulation of 23 July 2014 has direct effect in Belgian law. There are still a number of implementing acts to be adopted by Europe this year and a lot of Belgian legislation needs to be aligned. This exercise is currently under way. An inventory will be made of all government applications and of the corresponding level of security. For applications of the two highest security levels accessible to foreigners, Belgium will have to accept all European notified means of identification of the two highest levels. Our Belgian eID will also comply with this. Cooperation with other Member States is currently being developed within the STORK project. Belgium will notify its eID and await the experience of the first notifying Member States before taking that step itself. The authentication using the password and token username as a derivative of the eID is available on mobile devices. In the near future, the following authentication solutions are provided: Authentication with a single access code via SMS and authentication using a wireless card reader with the eID. This last authentication is considered equivalent to the authentication with connected eID. Other solutions for mobile authentication are currently being investigated. Both software-based and hardware-based solutions are being considered. For the time being, no conclusions from this study are available. The variety of equipment and the operating system are indeed a major challenge. The maintenance of such a variety of systems is very expensive. I have noticed that Estonia is very advanced in terms of e-government. The solutions of that country cannot be copied directly from us because the administrative, political and cultural context is different from ours, but they can certainly serve as inspiration. Actually, the opposite happened in the beginning. The introduction of the eID to us fifteen years ago has been an inspiration for Estonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u15	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. At the time, with the eID, we were indeed a forerunner in Europe and an inspiration for Estonia. In Estonia, of course, there has not been the law of the restraining edge. We have been able to develop greenfield, while the law of the restraining edge will lead us to a delay in the long run. We must pay attention to that. If I have understood you correctly, Belgium will notify the eID, but we will wait for some other Member States to do so. Where we used to be the first to start the eID platform, we will wait this time. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u16	We will wait for a number of countries to take the first step, but we will not wait until the last. We will look at a number of first countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u17	We are waiting for a number of first countries. We used to be the first, the leader, Minister. Now we're going to give up that lead position proactively. We say, as it were, that others prepare the way and we will follow. We are no longer becoming a trendsetter, but at best an early adopter. Apparently, we're not the frontrunner anymore. It is a pity that the level of ambition is greatly reduced. However, it is a good thing that different authentication systems are in place, including for the more accessible applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u18	In addition, we are still in the process of transposition. I'm sorry I've only been going on for six months, but I have to catch up sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u19	You do have a catch-up to catch up on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u20	Minister, during the budget debate in December, I quoted this message from the ACV-Transcom website: "BIPT staff received a day's exemption on Monday 8 December and did not have to come to work. With this, the BIPT Council shows its original support for the success of this provincial day of action. Staff do not have to stop and therefore do not suffer any loss of pay." In the meantime, I have heard that the BIPT was not amused with this message, which in the meantime has disappeared from the website of the ACV. In concrete terms, university staff could have done telework, while the other staff were granted a service exemption because trade union members blocked access to the building. You know that the Flemish government also houses in that building and trade unionists of the Flemish government or of the BIPT have blocked access there and caused the rest of the BIPT nuisance. I would have liked to have heard some more details about this. Firstly, how many staff could do telework on 8 December? How many employees took leave? How many employees were granted a service exemption? How many staff members indicated that they would stop? How many BIPT employees are in fact syndicated and are their union contributions reimbursed by the employer? What was the relationship between statutory and contractual? What did the rest of you do? Secondly, what was the total cost of the provincial day of action of 8 December for BIPT on service exemptions and on other cases? Thirdly, what lessons were taken from the strike day to improve the subsequent national strike day? Fourthly, what were the figures from previous questions for the national strike day? How was the follow-up to the lessons of December 8th? Fifth, how do you evaluate these strike days at BIPT yourself? What lessons do you draw from that? What measures will you take to prevent a repetition and provide permanent access to the building? You are also undoubtedly aware that the Brussels Appeals Court has confirmed that strikers should not be allowed to stop workers and to be given serious periodic penalty payments if they were to do so. Will BIPT use these possibilities in the future to enforce the right to work for its staff and to avoid the granting of service exemptions? Will the BIPT also announce these measures publicly in order to rethink strikers with blocking plans? What are the plans and what position do you take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u21	Mr Dedecker, on 8 December 2014, BIPT granted a full service exemption to the BIPT staff working at its headquarters in Brussels; the exemption did not apply to the people in the control centres and could not operate from home. This was done to prevent the BIPT employees from standing at a closed door. The BIPT had been confirmed by the trade unions that they would block access. Of the 209 BIPT staff, only 59 BIPT employees or 28 percent were prevented. They therefore effectively benefited from the service exemption. In addition, about 65 employees worked at home. In addition, 24 employees were present at the control centres, 46 employees were legally absent on leave, four fifths, half-time work, illness, etc. Nine employees have been infiltrated in the Ellipse building, one employee worked from abroad and five employees have stopped. The total cost of the full service exemption granted on the provincial strike day is EUR 12 033.63. On the national strike day of 15 December 2014, no full service exemption was granted to BIPT personnel, as no blockades were announced that would impede access to the BIPT building. In order to reduce the cost of such strike days in the future, BIPT will continue to work on facilitating and expanding home working for its employees, so that, in all circumstances, if access to the Ellipse building is blocked, BIPT staff can work from home.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u22	Minister, you could say that there were nine helipads among the BIPT staff. They absolutely wanted to put their hands up and even invaded the building, for which I respect. It is clear that there is a serious cost to the action and that it cannot remain without consequences. You say that BIPT will continue to focus on telework, but that will never be possible for everyone. We must go one step further and ensure that, on action days, access to the building is always protected. The BIPT must also assume its responsibility and, if necessary, go to court to impose periodic penalty payments on those who believe that it is necessary to decide on the right of others to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u23	Minister, this question dates back to mid-February, so a number of elements may be outdated. Eventually, she's dealing with the reduced government donation to bpost. In my opinion, Bpost is rightly receiving a public donation for the implementation of public services, such as the distribution of newspapers for 7.30 p.m., the distribution of election posts, the distribution of pensions and the maintenance of a network of 1 300 postal points, of which 650 offices, which means that there is at least one in each municipality. In the government's minutes on the decisions of the various budgetary conclaves, we read that in 2015 the government's donation will be reduced by EUR 6.5 million and by EUR 38.5 million in 2016. Apparently, the reduction would continue until 2017-2019. Minister, how much will the reduced amount be for the period 2017-2019? By the way, do the amounts I mentioned make any sense? What impact will a reduced dosage have on the company and its staff? What measures will bpost take to compensate for the reduced dosage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u24	Mr Minister, Mr Geerts has already asked a number of pertinent questions, which I would like to join. He has given a number of examples of the counterpart that bpost should do for his donation. I'd like to zoom in specifically on the mail points and post offices. The law requires bpost to maintain a network of at least 1 300 postal service points, of which at least 650 post offices, at least one in each municipality. These are difficult provisions, if you ask me. Moreover, the same article states that at least 95% of the population should have access to a postal service point located within a road distance of up to 5 kilometres and that at least 98% of the population should have access to a postal service point located within a road distance of up to 10 kilometres. That's a high density, isn't it? It goes without saying, therefore, that these arbitrary rules hinder the efficiency and efficiency of the service and that we should ask whether we need such legal requirements at all in a situation where the company is largely dependent on the demand and the spending pattern of the consumer, the citizen, for its income. Should we effectively impose by law that customers should not drive more than 5 kilometres? Is that still from this time of year? First, how much will the government funding amount for the period 2017-2019? Secondly, do you think it is appropriate to amend the obligations of bpost, which are laid down in the management contract and/or legislation, in parallel with the amount? Less obligations also give less need for dotation, that seems obvious to me. Thirdly, do you believe that the current legal requirements for the office network today are still appropriate for the services that we can expect from a commercial company? After all, a service with postal service points is a commercial service. Fourthly, I have a very typical question. Does the municipality of Herstappe, which according to the Statistical Directorate has 85 inhabitants, have its own post office, as required by law?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u25	The government needs to save money. It is also correct that the amount to be paid to bpost for the execution of certain public services under the management contract will be reduced. The savings will continue structurally beyond 2016. More specifically, it has been decided to save EUR 6.5 million in 2015. In 2016, a saving of 6.5 million euros, indexed, plus an additional saving of 38.5 million euros will be made. This will be extended for the period 2017-2019. On the other hand, it is unfair and premature to say that this will inevitably have a negative impact on the employment and quality of public service. In any event, the current management contract remains in effect until the end of 2015 and the new management contract is being negotiated with bpost. In any event, it would be premature to draw conclusions today as to the amount of staffing, employment or quality of public service. However, I would draw your attention to our declared ambition to ensure that public enterprises provide high-quality services at competitive prices for the benefit of all citizens, businesses, associations and public authorities. Public enterprises must be catalysts for economic growth. It is also important that public enterprises are financially sound and that they meet their profitability targets in a healthy social environment with respect for the quality of public services and with respect for the safety of workers, users and customers. In the context of the conclusion of the existing fifth management contract, a public survey on public services was carried out by a recognised external company. The results of the survey showed that all public services, including those related to maintaining the retail network, comply with the rules, needs and expectations of the population. As I said, the new sixth management contract is still being negotiated, so it is too early to make any comments on it. In this context, a further public survey will be carried out. It will be reviewed whether the population considers it important to maintain an extensive network of postal service points and post offices, including the minimum of one post office per municipality. On the question of whether there is a post office in Herstappe municipality, I can answer you in the affirmative. This is in accordance with the legal provision and the provision in the management contract. It is housed in the Town Hall in Dorpstraat 5 and is open on Wednesdays from 10 am 00 to 12 am 30 and from 14 am 00 to 18 am 00. By working together with the municipality and strictly aligning the opening hours with the possible demand, the costs of the office are kept to a minimum. I cannot, of course, comment on your question of taking a position on the possible privatisation of bpost and refer to the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, from which I understand that the amount of 6.5 million, indexed, will continue to apply in the coming years. Will the amount of 38.5 million also be indexed in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u27	Ja, due. Okay. In your opinion, it will have no impact, but this will be evident in the negotiations on the sixth management agreement. As far as the retail network is concerned, I fundamentally disagree with my colleague, Mr Dedecker. For me it is essential that every municipality... I may often wear a double hat, but I do not want the burdens to be passed on to the municipalities. We are talking about a public service. In the past, a number of offices were closed. You are also the mayor of the city and you know that this has a major impact on a municipality. For example, look at the municipality of Heist-op-den-Berg with 42 000 inhabitants. When a number of offices closed, that was rightly the subject of discussion, including in this Chamber. I remember that even specific committee meetings were held on this subject. Recently I asked a written question about the situation in Molenbeek, for example, on the proposal of my colleague Jef Van Damme. Well, two post offices were effectively functioning there for a population of about a hundred thousand people. Mr Dedecker, I believe that a public authority also has a duty to the municipalities to do something and that the burden should not be on the municipalities at all. I believe that otherwise your fellow N-VA officers who are mayors will provide you with questions that need to be asked here in order to maintain the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for confirming the post office of Herstappe. It seems really strange to me that we are imposing a legal requirement for a post office for the full eighty-five people. I would like to know the cost of that. Bpost is not allowed to carry out a cost-benefit analysis because of its legal obligations, but what is its price and what service does it offer? We are working with the municipality to save some costs at bpost, but this is where Mr Geerts has to get the money from somewhere and the question is whether this means that things will not be transferred to the municipality. These burdens cannot be passed on. Bpost has commercial orders. For me, it must never be a full post office, since the postal points prove that there are opportunities to offer a competitive service close to the citizen, and usually even better than a post office, given the increased opening hours of most commercial places where such a postpoint is located. I therefore find it completely absurd that the law imposes requirements on the availability of full-blown post offices, with all associated costs. You say that public enterprises must stand for a good service to the public at low prices. This can be done much better through competition than through absurd arbitrary requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 2396 question was converted into a written question. Mr Delizée, would you like to wait for Mr Blanchart on the attached issues under agenda item 12?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u30	Yes, I'll wait ten minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u31	At the end of February, Minister, we were able to read that there would be naked redundancies within the framework of the Alpha Plan. Unlike previous restructurings, the intention would now be to work with naked redundancies for the first time. In the past there was always a search for retraining or new tasks for the staff. Initially 3 500 jobs were intended, but in the end it was much less, if we can rely on the publications about the plan in the newspapers. However, I find it remarkable that naked dismissals should be carried out. The delivery of packages would create a new growth market. The question therefore arises as to whether retraining of the staff or reorganisation of the holding is possible. Even though my prepared text is already a few weeks old and may already apply a number of things, I will ask my questions, as I have submitted them in writing. Minister, when will social dialogue begin on the consequences? Which functions are correctly endorsed? Exactly how many employees should be discharged? What is the budgetary impact of this? Is there any possibility of using these staff internally after retraining? What is the actual timing? My combined question is about the profits of bpost and the impact on staff. The net profit of bpost has risen to 297 million euros and was never this high. The rate, if I am correct, has been 63 % higher in recent months. In fact, bpost is a successful company and, for the record, that can be welcomed. In our committee, there sometimes sounds a different tone in relation to some state-owned companies and we are talking about their debts. In the light of that profit, I shall continue to refer back to my previous question - the question of restructuring and retraining under the Alpha Plan. Minister, bpost plans a profit-sharing scheme for such results. Does the profit-sharing also benefit workers? The workers' organisations sound positive after the profit reports, but, on the other hand, they still have questions about the consequences of the rising workload. Apparently, the medal has a downside. Minister, how big is the staff turnover? What's the absence rate? Can this be divided into short and long-term illness periods?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u32	Bpost's management intends to develop a new organisational structure for the support services, with some 320 functions being abolished, both at servant and management level. The reorganisation will be implemented gradually and should be completed by the end of 2016. The reorganisation is part of the company's strategy to cope with the fall in the traditional mail volume. This strategy proved successful in 2014, with a positive result for the eleventh year in a row. However, the positive results of recent years do not guarantee future results, given the further decline in the classical mail volume. Nothing can yet be said about the exact number of employees required to leave the company, as there are internally declared vacant posts that can be filled by them. It is absolutely premature to talk about, for example, 300 naked redundancies. By the way, the social dialogue is now in progress. The accompanying measures and possible departure conditions for employees who would not be selected at the end of the selection process will be communicated as soon as they have been adopted in accordance with the applicable rules. In any case, the bpost mobility center job will provide the staff members concerned with the necessary support, among other things, depending on the preparation for the selection process. It goes without saying that all accompanying measures will respect the legal framework applicable to each occupational category. The Bpost Act of 6 July 1971 provides that 5% of the annual profits are allocated to bpost staff each year. In addition, a non-recurrent bonus, linked to collective objectives, has been awarded in recent years. In 2014, 2 387 employees left the company due to early departure, sickness or pension. The absenteeism rate is part of the confidential business data and is no longer communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true, of course, that the postal market will always be a volatile one. I have been studying it for ten years and I see that bpost is one of the few companies in the whole world, which can bring forward such results, but it is of course a market in motion. On the other hand, I must also point out that, in addition to good management, staff have always shown the necessary flexibility to achieve these results. That is why I am counting on good social consultation so that the atmosphere in the company can be preserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u34	Mr. Blanchart won't be able to join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u35	Minister, the public bpost company has undergone a major restructuring of its organization over the past decade, particularly with regard to its outlets. This modernisation was undoubtedly necessary in view of the emergence of new communication technologies, but it seems that not all Belgians - and especially Brusselsers - are equal in terms of access to the public service that bpost represents. On the one hand, the press points to the fact that Brussels was the most well-served major city in terms of post offices or stamp shops and, on the other hand, the fact that within the region itself, geographical disparities are enormous depending on the communes. Therefore, Minister, how does bpost management explain these disparities for the Brussels Region? Do you consider that bpost should take into account an equitable geographical distribution of its services according to population density? Is this not something that should appear in the new management contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u36	Minister, I tabled this question about two months ago. We do not have a very frequent pace of encounter, which is sometimes problematic. In two months, a lot of water sank under the bridges and what I was writing then is no longer quite current. I will therefore adapt what I was writing in the state of information that was mine, while regretting not having a more frequent contact for this type of question. My question specifically concerns post offices in rural areas. In recent years, the postal sector has undergone major changes, notably as a result of the gradual liberalisation of the sector by the European Union. Thus, the network of offices has been reorganized with postal offices - some with full services, others with basic services, but still with the financial services of the post which, in my opinion, are at the heart of the problem; Post Points installed in private shops or, once, postal stops, the latter having disappeared today. In the fourth management contract concluded between bpost and the State, the so-called ten-kilometre rule allowed the preservation of small rural communes, decentralised and often geographically isolated, as well as their population. Indeed, the rule of one post office per commune was far from sufficient in rural areas because it was necessary to cover very often extended territories. The aim was to ensure access to postal services for the citizens of these isolated villages. Minister, how many post offices were protected by this ten-kilometre rule and how many were allocated by Region? I imagine that was not the case for the Brussels Region. In the fifth bpost management contract covering the period 2013-2015, Article 18.1 states: "At least 95% of the population must have access to a postal service point offering a basic assortment within five kilometres, by road, and at least 98% of the population within ten kilometres, by road". Is this rule being respected, Minister? What is the current coverage rate of the country, whether or not taking into account the small postal offices I have just mentioned? I must say that the situation has changed since my question was tabled. As a first step, I was informed of the decision to close some of its offices in rural communes in the near future. Thus, for example, the office of Cul-des-Sarts in the entity of Couvin and that of Oignies-en-Thiérache in the entity of Viroinval would be threatened, the deadline for next June seems to have been set. The respective municipal councils have tabled a motion in this regard. In addition, I have personally sent you a letter to which I have not received a reply. This motion calls for the continuation of these offices. It is also intended to ask how many offices are covered by the possible bpost decision and whether their closure will change the 95 and 98 per cent geographical coverage rule. If bpost persists in wanting to close these offices, can you confirm to me that it must first put in place alternatives, such as Post Points, as has been the case in previous management contracts, to my knowledge? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, if these closures are confirmed, there is a great risk that the quality of postal services for the population concerned will be mortgaged. It should be recalled that in these regions services are already less developed, while alternatives in terms of mobility are lacking, the lack of public equipment, the digital divide, etc. The situation is well known by those who are somewhat familiar with the issue of rurality. I would also like to stress that the postal service remains an important service for all. Continuity and accessibility must therefore be ensured. In general, what is the government's position regarding the maintenance of postal services in these small municipalities? Does the government have the will to defend this public service in the rural communes I mentioned, to guarantee the citizens concerned quality and accessible services? Would you support, as the appropriate minister, the safeguarding of these small offices? Finally, today we are talking about the negotiation of the sixth management contract. Can you guarantee that I will maintain the principle of a post office per commune, including in rural communes? Indeed, their inhabitants have fears about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u37	Madam Chair, Mr. Delizée, bpost has transformed its one-dimensional network of post offices into a multi-channel network for better accessibility of services. The fourth management contract provided for a presence in each of the 589 communes. In addition, at least 95 per cent of the population must have access to a post within five kilometres of the surrounding road and at least 98 per cent within 10 kilometres of the road. This coverage is calculated at a national level and monitored regularly. Currently, 96.6 per cent of the population have access to a post office or post office within five kilometres, while the rate is 99.8 per cent within ten kilometres. Since the entry into force of the fifth management contract, this coverage rate has never fallen below 96% to five kilometres and 99% to ten kilometres. Several other factors are involved in geographical distribution: population density, socio-economic parameters, potential clientele and commercial considerations. The provision provided for in the fifth management contract allows bpost to close the following four post offices: Oignies-en-Thiérache (comune de Viroinval), Cul-des-Sarts (comune de Couvin), Villers-devant-Orval (comune de Florenville) and Mouscron. The closure of these offices has not yet taken place, since bpost is still seeking to compensate them with the opening of a Post Office, despite their low attendance, the problems of staff organisation and infrastructure, which is no longer suitable. bpost undertakes to make every effort to have their closure preceded by the opening of a Post Point. In the event of the closure of Post Points, the impact on the national coverage rate would be less than 0,05 %. Compared to other major urban agglomerations – Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège – there is no significant difference in the Brussels-Capital Region. It has an average population of 32,000 per post office, the average for the five entities being 30,000. The average number of inhabitants served by a post office or post office is 9,000 in Brussels. This is slightly higher than the average of the other agglomerations, namely 8,500. Brussels has an average population of 3,700 per point of sale, while the average population is 3,900. The number of monthly contacts per point of sale in Brussels averages 1 800, while the average for cities is 1 600. With regard to the sixth management contract, negotiations are under way. So I can't tell you the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u38	Minister, thank you. I could get all the figures for Brussels if you want to make the comparisons. These are still in disrepair from Brussels compared to all other agglomerations, if I have heard your figures: 32 000 against 30 000, 9 000 against 8 500, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u39	Except for the number of inhabitants per point of sale which, in Brussels, is less than other agglomerations. The difference is still quite small, always less than 10%.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u40	But 10% in the queues... I know the lines at the post offices. I would remind you that in Brussels there are also 400,000 commuters who attend Points Post and Post Office, because theirs are closed when they return home. If only the inhabitants are taken into account, there are difficulties in Brussels. I believe that Brussels, Liège and other agglomerations are not taken into account. Tourists and commuters must be added to the population. Today, Brussels is already at a disadvantage compared to the inhabitants. If we add people who travel in Brussels all day and who legitimately use public infrastructure there, this poses difficulties in Brussels and in post offices. You did not talk about the distribution between municipalities according to the north/south and east/west axis, which is much less coherent. There are disparities between municipalities. I'm not soothed by your numbers. These are raw figures. Statistics is one thing. To say that a city must have the same service as another city is another thing. I can understand it in a global way, but it seems to me that for the Brussels Region, bpost should think differently. I'll ask the managing director when he comes to parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u41	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his answers. Like you, I'm not soothed. I didn't get all my answers. To say that the reduction in the number of offices has led to a better accessibility of the client... These are things that have been done historically and accepted. But where we have replaced offices with Post Points, the service is not the same. Service quality and accessibility have not been improved by closing half of the country's offices. That is the first point I wanted to make. Secondly, I take note of your responses to the coverage rate. You tell us that the coverage rate is guaranteed and that, if I understood the figures correctly, the impact of closing four small offices would be 0.05% and would therefore not affect the overall objective. I do not know if your answer was written two months ago or if it was updated. Can you tell me if the Dottignies-Mouscron office would still be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u43	That was one of my questions. Will these offices be closed? To my knowledge, among the four offices you mentioned, one would be maintained. Could you confirm or invalidate this in a written answer? The fact that we are talking about maintaining one of the four offices means that internal reflection has been carried out, but I am not aware of the criteria or statistics that would lead to this decision. My next point is that this is not just a statistical problem. The situation in Antwerp and Brussels can be compared, but the four villages concerned are obviously different situations. The problem that I raise, which has arisen up to the fourth management contract, concerns service in geographically isolated areas. This is the question of a certain sharing of costs so that, in these villages, a service is maintained. This is not a purely statistical question. With regard to the sixth management contract, I asked you for a commitment that – and this is a fundamental political issue – a post office should be maintained in the country's 589 communes. You didn't even answer me on that point. I didn't think we could go any further in this matter! So I hear you're not committed to maintaining a postal office in each of the country's 589 communes! Finally, for those village offices that would be closed, subject to Dottignies-Mouscron, can you help us plead for an ATM, in addition to the Post Point, which would be complementary and more or less equivalent to a post office? Minister, can you answer me on the sixth management contract and the replacement by an ATM?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u44	This is not a debate! We are trying to respect speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u45	If the minister wants to answer me, he can do it! We can't stop him.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u46	He said he would not discuss the sixth management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u47	I'm even more worried after hearing the minister's answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u48	You will have a written answer to your specific question about the closure of post offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u49	Minister, the postponement of the abolition of roaming charges has already been dealt with side by side in this House. Roaming charges would not be abolished until 2018. Apparently, a coalition has been found of a number of telecom companies from the "Club Medlanden'. There is a fear that, by abolishing roaming charges, these countries would pass on the additional costs to home users from, for example, Belgium and the Netherlands. You said that in the press, too. Last week, in the context of a debate in the Chamber, Mr Van den Bergh asked whether it would be possible to work on this in the Benelux context. Mr Minister, I have some very specific questions. We have read your vision, but it may be interesting to know it before the Minutes of this House. What position has Belgium taken in the Council on this postponement of abolition? What are the arguments for postponing the abolition of roaming charges in Europe by three years? Is that a final decision or are negotiations still possible within the Council? What would be the financial impact of charging the abolition of roaming charges for Belgian families? What is the estimated loss of income for Belgian operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u50	Mr Minister, the European Council has just determined its positions on the draft regulation on telecommunications, as Mr Geerts pointed out. This project had the ambition to tackle two important themes, which are fundamental to the 500 million European citizens: net neutrality and roaming. However, in the opacity that characterizes it and as one might expect, the Council has chosen its side: that of the operators, of the large companies. The ambitious text of the European Parliament, which, I would remind you, had been adopted by a large majority, in particular by the parties which make up the Belgian government today, has been reduced to a grudge by the European Council. Europe is therefore missing its meeting with history at a time when the United States has just affirmed the neutrality of the net. This is a principle that any modern democratic society should adopt. The Council is thus fleeing its responsibilities by allowing Member States the option of regulating the management of Internet networks or not. As for maintaining roaming, I agree with what has been said by my colleague. He too is being reduced to grief and the European Council's proposal is rather ridiculous. This position of the Council is symptomatic of a liberal view of Europe: the right wants a single telecom market, of course, but only for its large companies. This is once again a real missed meeting of the Council, the one that could have brought European citizens closer to this Europe and perhaps the European Council of its European Parliament. Mr Minister, as my colleague has also asked, what position have you taken in this European Council? Have you followed the one defended by the leader of the Liberal Group of the European Parliament? Has the Belgian Government supported the Dutch Government to which it has recently declared itself close? As you argued for the European uniformity of the rules on net neutrality, how do you appreciate the choice of allowing each Member State the option of regulating or not regulating the management of networks? Finally, should we understand that you will no longer oppose a Belgian initiative on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u51	Madam President, it seems that Question No 2881 has been added. You have already spoken about it. My questions are as follows. What position has the government taken on this dossier? When will a decision be effectively rolled out at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u52	Madam President, in the European Council, Belgium has called for the abolition of European roaming, provided that domestic prices do not rise. It is by no means intended that the ordinary man on the street who does not travel abroad would subsidise the frequent traveler. Costs at wholesale level should be reviewed as soon as possible. Otherwise, operators will increase their prices to compensate for the loss of revenue when roaming is abolished. However, the decline in these wholesale fees is very sensitive to the southern countries, where many tourists go on holiday. They fear losing income while having to spend extra money so that tourists could use their mobile phones without difficulty. There was no majority within the Council to present the review earlier than 2018. However, the proposal is not yet final. There is now consultation between the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission in order to reach a consensus on a final version. It is my hope that the positive forces and Parliament can ensure that these roaming charges are abolished as soon as possible, together with the European Commission. I believe that we are stronger together with the European Parliament in order to be able to argue for a faster introduction. It is almost impossible to calculate the impact of abolishing roaming for the Belgian telecoms sector and consumers. It naturally depends on a number of factors, such as travel behaviour. As for the Internet, Belgium is in favour of a European net neutrality regime, where the general principles are laid down in a uniform manner in all the countries of the European Union while preserving the possibility of future innovation. I am in favour of a European initiative in this area, since, given the international nature of the net, it is the best level of power. It is important to avoid each Member State promulgating different regulations. In my view, net neutrality is an essential element in maintaining the attractiveness of entrepreneurship on the Internet. There is no way that today's very low entry threshold, which I believe is the great attraction, should be lost. If we are to reach an agreement on net neutrality, it must include the basic principles of what we have done, for example, in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for both your answers. I would like to talk about one more aspect. I believe that this discussion may be outdated in a number of years' time. I can already see that many people, including myself, have installed applications to call abroad via the Internet connection. Data roaming is now more expensive in the subscription price but we are talking about traditional telephone traffic. I believe that this may be an outdated discussion in 2018. I believe that the aspect of data roaming should certainly be taken into account, because it is likely to be the future in view of the WhatsApps of this world.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u55	Mr Minister, as far as net neutrality is concerned, I have the impression that Europe has completely abandoned this principle! I can hear you well and share your vision that this is a fundamental principle, which the United States has understood well. This is indeed a fundamental principle for research and development, for innovation, for start-ups, for businesses and for economic dynamism, I am convinced. If many European countries do not adopt national legislation in this area, Europe will do nothing because the lobbies are far too strong. We saw him for roaming. National initiatives, like those taken by the Netherlands, are important in sending a message to Europe. Citizens want net neutrality, which is an indispensable principle. You must not be complacent in this matter, and this debate must take place in the European Parliament; indeed, I believe that Europe will not be working on this issue for many years, in any case, not the European Council, which has postponed this point to the Greek calendia.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u56	Minister, you have recently convened a group of experts on the digital economy to help you prepare an authentic digital agenda. This committee brings together, in the words used in the media, "about twenty technological CEOs, academics, venture capitalists and opinion makers". This initiative echoes the digital plan of your Walloon counterpart, Mr. Marcourt. That several levels of power are looking at the future of digital technology in our country is particularly gratifying. However, here more than anywhere else, there is a need for cooperation between the authorities, as the competences of some are intertwined with those of others. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you very specific questions about the implementation of your plan. Does your Digital Agenda initiative concern only federal jurisdictions? How do you intend to involve federated entities in the digital agenda? Furthermore, how is it that no member of your committee, at least to my knowledge, comes from an institution established mainly in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u57	Madam President, dear colleague, first and foremost, we will focus on federal jurisdiction. However, in implementing the federal digital agenda, we will be careful to maintain double coordination. For example, for Europe, Belgium published in February a document highlighting its priorities for the new European Digital Agenda and the Digital Single Market announced in May 2015. The federated entities were involved in the development of this non-paper. We will be careful to maintain this coordination and to weigh in the European digital debate. As regards coordination with federated entities, they have key competences related to digital development, such as education, training or economic development. Some federated entities such as the Walloon Region have also announced the development of a regional digital strategy, which we welcome. My firm has already had informal contacts with the offices of the federated entities on this subject. For example, last week I attended a first meeting with the three Ministers of Education to discuss how the Digital Belgium initiative could support the efforts already made at the level of education in the Communities. The objective of the Federal Digital Agenda is to activate digital development levers at this level of power, in good coordination with European levers and federated entities. This brings me to the question of the presence of an institution implemented mainly in Wallonia. As a federal minister, I have never made a distinction between the Regions. If the CEO of Google Belgium is part of Digital Minds for Belgium, it is in Mons that the biggest implementation of Google Belgium must be found. If the CEO of Proximus is present, this company is also present throughout Belgium. The same goes for Base and Mobistar. In my view, it cannot be said that one Region is overrepresented in relation to another. In general, I have tried to select people who could raise Belgium up, within the framework of federal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u58	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a sector with real economic potential. It is therefore important to work in the same direction, to collaborate and to coordinate. I was pleased to hear that you had contacts with the Regions. But I regret, however, that you first drew up a plan before consulting the federated entities. This practice is regrettable. Indeed, you are well aware that the main competences in digital matters are the responsibility of the Regions and the Communities. I know that your government has a bit of a problem when it comes to consultation, but it is an essential element, all the more so because in the key there is job creation. I understand that you are working at the federal level, but I think that in this area it is important to have a more balanced representation, if not proportional, and that there are representatives from each of the regions. It's essential. According to my information, the countries of origin were represented and not necessarily the location. I don't want to sneeze on this aspect, I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that if we want everyone to take the train in motion, and to leave no one at the edge of the road, it is important to continue to make contacts and to take this parity into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u59	It was not because I saw the Ministers of Education the day after the presentation that there were no contacts before. There have been contacts between the firms before but I am already happy to have managed to bring together the three Ministers of Education in Belgium because the agendas are complicated!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u60	It's not just the Ministers of Education! I will come back later on this subject of the future!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u61	Question No 2785 by Mr Blanchart is postponed because he is at a funeral this morning. We come to Question No 2862 by Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u62	Madam President, Minister, in the past we have talked about the Belgian DNS blocker which blocks access to sites but is very easy to circumvent in practice. In the short term, according to measurements made by the Belgian Entertainment Association, it seems to have some effect. The question is, of course, what that gives in the long term, because certain content may be illegal, but it is sites that people seem to want to surf, even though they are illegal. We may regret that, but if they want to, they will do everything they can to circumvent the blocker and the long-term effectiveness of that measure is completely undermined. Moreover, nothing changes about the illegal content offered on the blocked website. In addition, DNS blocking also lacks an opportunity when it comes to sensitisation and referral to legal alternatives. One gets just a stop page from the FCCU, without further information and possibly a reference to something legal. In the United Kingdom progress is being made. The Police Intellectual Property Crime Unit (PIPCU) uses domain suspension, for which there is a collaboration with domain recorders and hosters. In doing so, the domain of a site is claimed, temporarily stopped and in some cases even completely closed. In addition, the PIPCU also works with online payment systems and advertisers. Indeed, those advertisers do not always know that their services or advertising are used and displayed on websites with illegal content, and they are often not too keen to be associated with them. Cutting off the funding is therefore a very good way to dry the place and tackle the trade at the root. Finally, there is also a collaboration with the providers and search engines. In an earlier reply, you referred to further steps against the providers and a more sensitizing approach to the downloaders. Therefore, no downloaders are brought to justice, but it is the providers who are endorsed. To what extent is the first part of this in line with the activities of the PIPCU? How do you evaluate the actions of the PIPCU? Has there already been cooperation with services in our country from the PIPCU, as these are illegal activities that transcend national borders, because they can be used. be-domain names and Belgian hosters? Is the PIPCU active in our country and are we working with them? Conversely, do we ask such questions to the PIPCU? DNS.be, that's it. Domain and it. eu domain is an autonomous non-governmental non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making association. To what extent does she cooperate with the PIPCU? In what way does the PIPCU have a legal basis in Belgium, on which basis does the PIPCU base itself? Is the FCCU able to set up similar activities and cooperation in order to carry out such domain suspension in practice? What legal basis is there for this today and which one might be missing? Is there any consultation in this area between the various services involved in our country? What plans are there for this? How do you see the legal protection of the domain registerers and the hosters? In particular, they should be protected from damages claims from customers whose domain or hosting they unduly bring down at the request of the authorities, which must of course be strictly defined. If an error occurs, should they not be liable for it? How do you see the further application of that DNS blocker in the future? What extension, sensitization or other adaptation do you see possible and desirable? Blocking a domain is only symptom control and can still result in a cat-and-mouse game. One is already a little closer than a DNS blocker, but one has to tackle the root and then funding is crucial. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u63	The FPS Economy is currently working on a preliminary draft law. It is too early to say in what direction the regulatory framework will evolve. We are not currently cooperating with the PIPCU and are therefore not placed to assess their actions. DNS Belgium reports that it has not yet been contacted by the PIPCU. If the PIPCU would notice certain illegal activities related to. be-websites or domain names it seems appropriate to report this to the competent Belgian authorities, who can provide instructions to DNS Belgium through the usual procedures if necessary. In this context, I would ask you to consult the Ministers for the Interior and Justice, who are responsible for this matter. However, I can tell you that the Economic Inspection actively uses the legal possibilities to withdraw domain names. For example, in last year's European anti-counterfeiting campaign, 226. domain names blocked by customs and the Economic Inspectorate. For example, the Economic Inspectorate may ask the King's Attorney to draw up an order in application of Article 39a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Economic Inspection shall cooperate with customs and other control authorities at Belgian and European level. In general, hosts and internet domain registration agencies can provide contractual protection. Community rules may also give them protection. For example, the host provider cannot be held liable to his customer for the measures taken by the prosecutor of the King. The infringement of the contract resulting therefrom cannot be attributed to him. The DNS blocking, which can be bypassed, is undoubtedly effective for websites mainly dedicated to counterfeiting. The importance of this effectiveness, including over time, is taken into account by the FPS Economy in the preparation of the preliminary draft law cited above.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer to a preliminary draft law on which you do not yet give details. I do not expect precise details either, but I would have liked to know the main lines and direction of this draft. Perhaps you could tell me something about that? It is strange that we do not get an answer. It is also strange that there is no cooperation with the PIPCU yet, but I can understand that. That will be an evolution that is yet to come. I would have liked to have been given further information on the direction of the preliminary draft law, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u65	In general, if it is part of the digital agenda to ensure that the Internet is there for everyone, then we need to ensure that there is sufficient trust. Trust has to do with a number of things. It has to do with payment systems. If people buy something on the Internet, they must also have sufficient elements to assess whether or not something is illegal. We must also have the opportunity to take illegal cases out of the air. This is in line with developments at European level. Things that are clearly known to be illegal must quickly be denied access. I know I've been very general, but we're still working this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u66	I just wish I could have known the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the largest Belgian operators apply a rate differentiation based on speed and download limits. Entrance subscriptions have low download limits while more expensive subscriptions speak of free or unlimited download. I am, of course, talking here again about the biggest operators. The little ones, some alternative operators, also profile themselves specifically around that unlimited download. With the big one, it seems that unlimited is not always unlimited. At Proximus unlimited means 500 GB, after which one arrives at a ridiculously low surf speed of 128 KB per second; 128 KB might remind you of the 56K modems that squeak and squeak. It's from that time. Otherwise you have to order free volume packs. I think that's something weird, ordering free packs. At Telenet they use free download. They advertise with that. This means, however, that since an adjustment of 300 GB............................................................................................................................................................................. It is still better than 128 KB, but 5 MB is not what one expects from a 160 MB turbo line. However, that is information that should be searched in the lowercase letters. One advertises with free download, but in the lower case it says that there is indeed a limit. I have no problem with price differentiation, quite the contrary. It can help create a low-threshold product that is cheaper to close the digital divide. However, it is important that the information is clear and that terms such as "unlimited debt securities' are only used if they are genuinely unlimited. Especially in times of Netflix and other streaming services, data consumption increases and one needs to know clearly in advance where one is going. So I have a few questions for you. Firstly, what are the rules on the transparency of the specifications of an Internet connection? Is the use of terms such as "unlimited' and "unlimited' downloads, followed by a nuance somewhere in the fine print accordingly? Secondly, what can or will you, or the BIPT, do to increase transparency and clarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u68	On the basis of the telecoms Act, Article 108 (1) (d) and Article 111 (1) (f), operators must be transparent and clear about the services they offer and the tariffs they apply. Since the term "unlimited' clearly means "without restrictions', an offer where a particular service is offered as unlimited while in reality it is not, may be considered as not transparent to the consumer. The BIPT currently controls the unlimited offers for consumers, which operators offer, both in terms of telephony and SMS and in terms of data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u69	So, Minister, I can only hope that the results will be announced soon. I'm looking forward to it. However, a number of things can already be identified today. It is good that there will be an in-depth investigation into all the elements, including telephone and SMS. In the area of the Internet it is simply seen. You really shouldn't wait for an investigation. I expected a stand in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u70	Madam President, Minister, universal service in the telecommunications sector ensures that all end-users have access, at a reasonable price, to the communications network and to the provision of telephone services. Social rates are available to persons with disabilities, persons over 65 with low incomes, RIS beneficiaries, etc. These rates are not limited to the fixed telephone line. They have also been in force for mobile telephony since 2005 and internet subscription since 2012. However, the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice considers that our country has gone too far by extending this advantage to mobile telephony. I don't know what he's saying about the internet subscription. It would appear that this decision would not be compatible with the text of the European directive on universal service. The maintenance of social rates for mobile telephony could therefore soon be undermined. Minister, what attitude are you going to adopt with regard to this decision of the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u71	I would like to thank Mr Clarinval for his introduction and questioning, and I would like to join him. In its conclusions of 29 January 2015, the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice stated that mobile telephony does not fall within the scope of universal service. In our current system, the large operators must offer social tariffs for fixed telephony, mobile telephony and the Internet. The opinion of the Advocate General may not be binding, but it clearly calls into question our principle of social tariffs for telecommunications and confirms what I said earlier in Parliament when discussing the telecom package under your predecessor. The Advocate General concludes that the possibility of imposing reduced rates is only allowed to guarantee certain services. Mobile telephony is not included. Firstly, how do you evaluate today the extension of social rates under the previous legislature, in particular those towards mobile subscriptions? Secondly, do you intend to await a ruling by the Court with a probable conviction? The conclusion may not be binding, but it may be indicative. We can have a serious suspicion of what the verdict will be. Or will you anticipate, as we did in the file on the independence of BIPT? We were able to avoid a conviction there. Which steps will you take? Will you withdraw the social charge for mobile subscriptions? Finally, you said earlier that social tariffs often result in heavier and more expensive subscriptions being chosen than necessary, or that discounts are spent on paying by-products such as video on demand. I have always made that statement. What steps will you take to investigate, evaluate and correct the issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u72	Mr Minister, my two fellow Members have already given an introduction. My view differs from the previous speakers, which only makes the debate richer. A number of dates were mentioned: 2005, 2012 and 2013. On these dates, operators would be required to apply the tariff reduction to the offer that is most interesting to the beneficiary financially, taking into account the services to which the beneficiary wishes to subscribe. I have not yet heard anything about the 2004 resolution, but it called on the entire Chamber, with the abstention of the Flemish Interest, to give an ambitious European dimension to universal service, including the extension of social tariffs to broadband and mobile telephony, and, in the event of an extension of universal service, to ensure technology neutrality at all times. We have always played a leading role in this respect. It is true that the Advocate General has said that the social tariff is no longer possible for the mobile phone. How many right holders have a social telecom fare today? How many rights holders make use of that right for mobile telephony? Will the government continue its efforts at European level to modernise universal service by removing obsolete obligations and incorporating new applications, such as broadband Internet and mobile telephony? Will the government continue to support technological neutrality in social tariffs for those entitled to it? Does the government agree with our view that those entitled to take their social discount on mobile telephony today should still be able to do so in the future? Finally, will the government support a proposal whereby the right holders can continue to receive a discount on the mobile phone, albeit outside the universal service, if the European Court follows the Advocate General's conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u73	As far as the scope of universal service is concerned, I must stress that the social tariffs granted in Belgium must comply with European legislation in this area. If the European Court of Justice opposes the qualification of the mobile social tariff as part of the social component of universal service, it is necessary to adapt national legislation. However, it should be noted that universal service is an evolving concept, with the European Commission carrying out a review every three years of the need to review the scope of universal service. The European Commission launched such an analysis in April 2014. It will focus, inter alia, on the importance of broadband access and mobile services. As regards statistics, at the end of 2014, there were 305 913 beneficiaries of the social tariff, of which 92.72 % for fixed telephony, 5.86 % for mobile telephony and 1.42 % for internet. For mobile telephony it is about 17 912 subscriptions. The technological neutrality to which Mr Geerts refers means that the legal objectives must not oblige the use of a given technology and must not discriminate in favour of a given technology. If the European Court of Justice follows the Advocate General, the current social charges for mobile internet are not directive-compliant and therefore illegal. This implies that, if the government wants to maintain the social charges for mobile telephony, it must organise those charges independently of the universal service, which means that the State will have to guarantee its financing. So the issue is not so much about maintaining technological neutrality as about balancing available resources and meeting certain social needs. Mr Dedecker, you ask me how I judge today the extension of social rates under the previous legislature, particularly in the area of mobile subscriptions. In doing so, you referred to the risk that the beneficiaries would choose more expensive subscriptions than necessary. I believe that the social tariff for telecommunications services should at least be evaluated with a view to improving it. This evaluation cannot be separated from developments in the sector for mobile services, which, moreover, have a very limited success in terms of social discounts. It should be noted that, among other things, the successive price studies carried out by BIPT show that mobile phone charges have fallen significantly. I believe that operators should be encouraged to provide, above all, an accessible basic offer. In general terms and in order to answer Mr Clarinval's question, it seems to me necessary for a reform of social tariffs in the field of electronic communications to be carried out once the European Court of Justice has delivered its judgment in the case referred for a preliminary ruling, after which the Constitutional Court will itself issue its judgment. This reform is part of the IBPT Operational Plan 2015. Mr Dedecker has questions about the possibility of anticipating the judgment of the European Court of Justice by revising the list of services subject to social charges. It is unclear when the judgment will be dropped. This case cannot be treated in the same way as the issue of BIPT's independence. The scope of universal service is constantly evolving. I would like to refer to the fourth revision, which is currently being carried out and which is subject to interpretation. The approximation of the law is now being considered within the wider context of the reform of social rates, as mentioned above, and the possible evolutions at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u74	Madam President, I take note of the Minister's response, and in particular of the reform to be undertaken as soon as the Court has rendered its decision. Allow me to make a suggestion, minister. There are public service obligations in this area. However, you are aware that some remote areas in Belgium do not have access to internet or mobile telephony at all. That is why you should bring these regions in full compliance with these obligations. As a result, these unserved pockets would finally be included in the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u75	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Only 5% of social tariff customers, or 17 000 people, apply this discount to the mobile offer. That is indeed very limited. One may indeed wonder whether the sop of such a comprehensive system is worthy of the coal, especially if it involves additional risks relating to the legal framework and the side effects we have already mentioned. I do not think it can really be the intention to create a system outside the universal service, in which the State is responsible for financing. We need to address the risk of poverty rather than set up a system for every possible policy area with general policies and resources. That's a drop on a hot plate. That doesn't really seem like the way to work. I believe that we are using resources more specifically rather than having each department carry out individual checks and set up its own system. That would be awesome. However, I notice a sentence. You say that you will evaluate the universal service and social rates with a view to improving them. I'm also in favour of improvement. Change for progress, we always say. I hope that means the same thing. Everyone can give their own definition of improvement. You have already referred to the reduced rates, without being very clear. You're welcome to be more specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u76	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm also a little surprised by the low share. I am not convinced that the social tariff has no interest anymore. I think that within a number of years we will have to have a substantive debate on the packages that are being offered, but that is another question that I will ask. I think it will be possible for the government to regulate it. We have also seen the study of BIPT. It is true that prices have fallen sharply in themselves. This is good for the consumer, but I think there will be another problem with the packs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u77	Mr Minister, Mr Blanchart having arrived, can we conclude with his question No 2785, knowing that you must leave at noon? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the next question-and-answer session with the Minister is scheduled in committee next Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u78	Madam President, since I have just arrived and I have two questions about the future of bpost, one about the offices of Thuin and Lobbes and the other more general about outsourcing of services, could you tell me which one I can ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u79	Your question No 2784 on rural areas was attached to Question No 2958 by Mr Delizée and to Question No 2529. These have been asked and you will therefore have the answer to this question in the record. I therefore invite you to ask your question No 2785. As for your question No 3176, it is postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u80	Madam President, Minister, bpost has outsourced some of the services it offers, notably via Post Points in the supermarkets and bookstores partners. In these cases, the bpost staff is not used to manage this task, but that of the partner concerned. In addition, some services have also been made available online. These approaches affect employment. I am particularly concerned by the fact that today, as part of a reorganisation of the service, we are witnessing the abolition of functions which will lead to an unspecified number of redundancies in the sector. We are also talking about economies of scale projects to be carried out, notably through the merger of certain services in the sorting centres of Fleurus and Liège? Minister, can you inform us about this proposed merger? What is it? What are the objectives to be achieved? What are the services and people involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u81	Mr Blanchart, bpost is putting in place its strategic plan 20/20, in which five industrialized sorting centres will become Industrial Mail Centers (IMC), which will be responsible for sorting and preparing mail. The BMIs in Brussels-Gand and Charleroi will be dedicated to national sorting and regional sorting, the BMIs in Liège and Antwerp will only be dedicated to regional sorting. The processing of packages and recommendations will be centralized within a single BMI, in particular that of Brussels. It is therefore not a merger project, but a shift of activities between sorting centres. Changes in the framework of the 20/20 strategic plan will be implemented gradually, in consultation with the social partners, with intensive support and without redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u82	Minister, thank you for reassuring us that there is no dry lay-off. I hope that the bpost authorities and managers, in their reorganization, will take into account your wish not to dismiss the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic147x.u83	Minister, I hope to see you next week to exhaust the stock of outstanding issues.
