ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u1	Mr. President, Prime Minister, this issue is somewhat dated. On 19 November 2014, in Berlin, you met with Angela Merkel to discuss relations and cooperation between Belgium and Germany. In particular, I was able to read in the press that you had addressed the issue of TTIP with the German Chancellor. Could you tell us more about the content of your discussions in this context? Have you also had the opportunity to address CETA or a comprehensive approach to the framework (social, environmental, health standards) of such mega-free trade agreements? What is your will and that of Mrs Merkel with regard to these treaties? I also asked you about the recognition of the State of Palestine, a subject that was being debated in parliamentary assemblies at the time. But I will ask you in more detail about this in my next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u2	Mr President, dear colleague, I met with German Chancellor Merkel on 19 November 2014 in Berlin. Our discussions focused on bilateral relations between Germany and Belgium and on European affairs. In this context, the issue of TTIP has indeed been addressed. This is an ambitious draft agreement for which the Council of the European Union gave a negotiating mandate to the European Commission in 2013. It is certainly a plan to liberalise our trade which will have consequences that can be positive for growth in Europe, and therefore also in Belgium. The aim of this project is to boost investment on both sides. Together with Mrs Merkel, we shared the ambition to see the European Union quickly conclude such an agreement with the United States, while recalling our concerns about the need for transparency in the negotiation process and respect for our social and environmental standards. To be quite clear, I believe that such an agreement cannot be reached at any price. We must remain vigilant in the promotion and protection of our interests. In the context of TTIP, we have also discussed the dispute settlement mechanism, the so-called ISDS, which has generated much debate both in Belgium and in Germany, and for which we are awaiting the results of a public consultation launched last year by the European Commission. We have also talked about the European Free Trade Association, the Growth and Stability Pact, the deepening of the euro area and, of course, the issues surrounding the Juncker Plan have been mentioned in this context as one of the tools for reviving investment. At the international level, we have also reviewed the situation in Ukraine and the fight against Ebola. The question of Palestine was not discussed with Angela Merkel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u3	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. This is indeed an important agreement. I am concerned because you are telling us of your will, your ambition to move forward with the Chancellor on this agreement, whereas today we have no assurance that transparency and respect for social and environmental standards will be respected. Nor do we have any assurance regarding the withdrawal of the investor-state arbitration clause from this agreement. Moreover, and unfortunately today, we have no guarantee that this agreement will, as you mentioned, have a positive economic impact for Europe and Belgium. We are talking about an increase in wealth of just 0.5% for the European Union as a whole. It's very marginal. Moreover, this does not allow for a detailed understanding of what each State will benefit from. We therefore have no guarantee that Belgium will be the biggest winner in the conclusion of such an agreement. That is why I am very worried about your answer. Therefore, in these circumstances, my group cannot support such an approach. In the Committee on External Relations, we have asked for an in-depth discussion of this issue. I hope that the majority will accede to this request and that we will indeed be able to hear from all the experts who will reassure us – I doubt it, but imagine that this is the case – of the elements of this agreement which seem to us to be still obscure and problematic today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, this question also dates back, so I had to adapt it in view of the developments that have taken place in the meantime. Today, 135 countries formally recognize the State of Palestine, including Sweden. Other parliaments have also adopted proposals to this effect, such as the European Parliament, but also the French, British and other Parliaments. Meanwhile, in Belgium, the parties of the majority have procrastinated at length, even rejecting recommendations tabled by the PS which explicitly demanded this recognition. Nevertheless, the notable exception of the CD&V, which abstained at the time, was noted. In fact, Belgium would seem to prefer communication operations rather than concrete action. Indeed, on 4 December, we were all able to read in one of our main daily newspapers that "Belgium was finally going to recognize Palestine and that a text was ready". Unfortunately, behind this announcement effect, the reality is quite different. First of all, we had to wait until the plenary on 19 December to finally discover this text on our benches. Parliament therefore did not have the earliest opportunity of the document: it was already known to the press. It was therefore on 19 December that we found the actual existence of this text and that our fears about its content were confirmed. The majority's motion for a resolution seems to us to be a decoy. Of course, it plans to initiate steps towards the recognition of the Palestinian State, but states that this will take place "at the appropriate time". This time will be determined on the basis of three conditions: - "the positive impact of recognition in order to revive or support an inclusive political process of negotiation between Israel and Palestine; - the development of cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and the efforts of the European Union to support the peace process with a view to a definitive and comprehensive solution respecting the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian and Israeli peoples for peace, security and prosperity; - the existence of a full-fledged Palestinian government with authority throughout the Palestinian territory." I agree with you at least on one thing: it is essential to pacify the region and allow Israelis and Palestinians to live in security and peace. But if the objective really sought by your majority, Prime Minister, is really that one, then we must stop waiting for an opportune moment that will never arrive and make a strong diplomatic gesture. We must stop making this recognition impossible. On the contrary, the conditions must be put in place for the impossible to happen. The recognition of Palestine is a sine qua non for the resumption of the peace process, which now exists only in the minds of those who want to drag things on and thus allow the continuation of colonization. Recognition is the condition for the resumption of political negotiations, which is the condition for a full-fledged Palestinian Government and for its capacity-building. The opposite is not true. So, Prime Minister, can you clarify what your real intentions are? My group is thus the author of a motion for a resolution which has been taken into consideration, clear, and which has only one request: immediate recognition of Palestine, unconditional, alongside the State of Israel. So how do you position yourself against this text without conditions? Why does the majority not support it if they are so convinced of the merits of such recognition? Why did she prefer to table this puppet text, without scope, which is at the opposite end of what the region needs today, namely a strong diplomatic gesture? Unfortunately, the events of the past few days have confirmed to me that it is essential to find a viable peace solution in this region. I am really desperate to read this text, which is before us and which certainly will not allow us to reach this solution of peace and security in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question, which is very nuanced in its expression. The situation in the Middle East is a matter of constant concern and the tensions we are still witnessing between Israel and Palestine remind us, if necessary, of the urgent need to put a real peace process back on track. In the government agreement, the majority committed themselves to consolidating, through bilateral initiatives, the policy of the United Nations and the European Union in the Middle East. This question of the recognition of Palestine as a State falls within this framework. Today, 135 countries out of the 193 members of the United Nations have recognized Palestine as a State, including 9 members of the European Union. Since 30 October 2014, Sweden has been the EU Member State which, most recently, has taken a decision to do so. Elsewhere in the world, several national parliaments have spoken out on this recognition. The House of the United Kingdom and Ireland adopted a non-binding resolution on the recognition of the State of Palestine. A motion calling on the Spanish Government to recognize the Palestinian State was adopted in Spain. In France, the National Assembly voted on 2 December last to invite the French government to recognize the State of Palestine. Belgium has not remained passive in this international debate. In 2011, it had already voted in favour of the accession of Palestine as a full member of UNESCO. In 2012, it voted in the United Nations General Assembly in favour of a resolution by which Palestine changed its status from an observer entity in the United Nations to a non-member observer state. In 2013, the Belgian government took the decision to enhance the diplomatic status of the Palestinian Authority in Brussels. Belgium has always supported a solution of co-existing two States and establishing a sovereign Palestinian State living in peace and security with and alongside Israel. This principled position means that recognition will take place sooner or later, even though it is a matter of determining the appropriate time because this instrument can only be used once. The European Union is very committed to the Middle East and the new High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, has, as soon as she takes office, expressed her willingness to work to relaunch this peace process and to affirm the role of the European Union in this process. The General Affairs Council is very regularly seized of this issue and Belgium is also in favour of the very rapid appointment of a special representative of the European Union for the peace process. I'll be clear. The Government wants to recognize the Palestinian State as a State and a subject of international law when it deems it appropriate. This opportune moment can be determined not by conditions, as you have said, but by parameters – it is a little different – that must make this recognition a useful tool for relaunching the peace process and the efforts of the international community. The positive impact of such recognition must therefore be considered in order to revive or support an inclusive political process of negotiation between Israel and Palestine. In this reflection, we must take into account the evolution of consultations between the Member States of the European Union and the efforts of the European Union to support the peace process with a view to a definitive and comprehensive solution, respecting the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian and Israeli peoples for peace and security, and we must also consider, among those parameters, the existence of a full-fledged Palestinian Government with authority throughout the Palestinian territory. At present, several motions for resolutions have been tabled in Parliament. There is therefore a nuance between a resolution and a draft government. I guess you didn't miss it. They have been taken into consideration and the government will follow with interest the parliamentary debates on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u6	Prime Minister, I am sorry to say that for my group, the right time is now! The time has come for our country to impose this strong diplomatic act. This region deserves it. We cannot constantly hide behind a peace process that is completely stuck behind negotiations at European level. We also have our role to play at European level. We have done so in other cases and I think that we could be a precursor to this project at European level if we really wanted to. Belgium should be the driving force behind the peace process in the region and which supports the principle of this negotiated and definitive solution, based on these two States so that they can live effectively in peace and security. As you said, we have done before. We assumed our responsibilities in 2011 in relation to this accession to UNESCO and, in 2012, in recognizing Palestine as a non-member observer in the United Nations. We must continue in this direction. The government must take this strong diplomatic action. This parliamentary support is needed to act as well. I know there are resolutions today. However, if the government took on its responsibilities, it would have no difficulty finding strong parliamentary support in parliament. The groups of your majority must support the resolutions which are on the table today and which propose this unconditional recognition, without waiting for hypothetical negotiations which, unfortunately, are now completely entangled. I repeat that I am asking for a clear act: do we wish, yes or no, to recognize the State of Palestine now and unconditionally? The announcement effects are a first step, which requires action and the majority groups must take their responsibilities. In any case, at one point, everyone will be forced out of the woods: motions for resolutions exist, they will be discussed, they will be voted on. It is then that we will know who really wants to make a positive change in the situation and who wants to promote the settlement process still under way in Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u7	Questions Nos 677, 796, 910 and 917 by Mr Georges Gilkinet have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I wish you good wishes for this year, which I hope will be used for the well-being of all Belgians. I have questioned your predecessor many times on this subject. Sometimes I feel like I'm stuttering about cybersecurity and cyberstrategy. My question was tabled before these heinous attacks in France last week. It is all the more urgent in the light of French and global news. As we know, information and communication technologies are truly the backbone of our economy, but at the same time an element of great fragility due to criminal activities, threats to our governments, to our industries, to our society, to our privacy, to our public freedoms. Belgium is a clear target for spies and criminals of all kinds who use our country not only to gather information about our companies – the most striking example is Belgacom – and about Belgian institutions, but also as a gateway to sensitive information about international companies based in Belgium or about international institutions such as NATO, the European Commission or the European Parliament. This cyber espionage, this cybercrime has a cost to our economy. Several figures are circulating, but we regularly talk about EUR 3 or 4 billion a year, i.e. 1% of our gross national product. These attacks also sometimes threaten our most fundamental interests and values, I said. Let us recall the role of the Internet in the field of terrorism. It is time to act quickly on this ground too. Why, for example, do some sites remain open when they call for hatred or murder? I saw today in the press that some police officers preferred to leave Facebook because messages from the Islamic State group calling for the murder of Belgian police officers and police families were circulating there. I find it intolerable that this type of message cannot be thwarted today in Belgium. Prime Minister, everyone comes to make their own spying market in Belgium, including friendly countries. It is therefore time, more than long time and even very late – others say it is already too late – to ensure effective protection of our critical information and communication infrastructures, as well as of our businesses and citizens, in order to fight this cyberterrorism more effectively. The financial and structural resources available to cybersecurity bodies are largely insufficient to recruit, to keep the right profiles capable of ensuring the security of our cyberspace and to develop the necessary equipment to deal with this threat against our society. Prime Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask my simple questions, but I want us to move forward immediately. How many attacks were recorded in Belgium in 2014? Which departments/enterprises were targeted? A report may have gone unnoticed, as it was produced in the summer of 2014: the report of the R Committee.It shows that in terms of espionage, in 2011, we went from 193 investigations meriting special research methods to 561 investigations. I do not know the figures for 2014; perhaps you have them? In terms of terrorism, in 2011, we went from 371 cases to 1,086 cases in 2013; I also do not know the figures for 2014. It is therefore a threefold increase in the number of files that deserve specific investigations and research methods. Is this increased vigilance, is it an additional threat? Thus, the web, i.e. the Internet, is a major element in the spread and the call for terrorist activities. Recently, Mr. De Croo announced that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is conducting an in-depth investigation into Belgacom's espionage. But how many cases have they been the subject of a legal complaint? Members of Parliament sometimes announce that they want to file a complaint, and we never know how to deal with it. We do not know what has happened and whether anyone has been punished as a result of a possible complaint. To my knowledge, no one in Belgium has been punished for cybercrime or cyber espionage. Do you have any information in this regard? Have any prosecutions been successful, have criminals been punished? In addition to the judicial reactions, what were the reactions of a political nature? I saw that the US ambassador was summoned a few months ago at the time of this case with the NSA. We couldn't do anything else. Angela Merkel was furious and we couldn't show that we were letting things happen. But I did not see the same approach towards the Russian ambassador. However, it is known that Foreign Affairs have been massively attacked and infected with a virus coming from Russia. I have not seen the same approach towards the British Ambassador when it is known that Britain and other Commonwealth countries are more than likely involved in this Belgacom case. Prime Minister, have you taken or intend to take political steps towards these states, some of which say to themselves our friends, our allies, but which nevertheless take advantage of them to spy and take data without our knowledge in our companies or departments? As part of the budget discussions at the beginning of the year, you have indicated that the Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium will be operational in 2015 and that the budgets will be entered at the latest during the budgetary control. I confess that I was extremely disappointed to see that there was a budget line but that there was zero euro allocated to cybersecurity! Frankly, I think it's time to stop these delays. I have given such a frank speech to the previous government. It is not a question of opposing each other, but of saying that it is necessary, useful and indispensable to move forward in this area. What will be the legal basis? I have the draft royal decree for the establishment of this cybersecurity centre which had been deposited with the King at the time but which had not signed it on account of current affairs. For me, a royal decree is too light! We do not see the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat exchanging data with a centre whose legal basis would be so fragile. We also know that, if they are not obliged by law to exchange confidential information, the SGRS and the State Security will probably not do so! It therefore seems to me legitimate to be careful in this regard. When will this centre finally be in place? With what financial means? I have already read what you said in the budget, but it was rather brief and not detailed. I wish I'd known a little more. What adaptation of the legal framework have you envisaged in order to be able to work better in this field? How can the action of the different services be further strengthened? How can private companies and individuals be made aware of the problem of cybersecurity? We see how important it is for everyone to be vigilant in this area. What good practices can be taught, for example at school? I think there is a real need for an industrial cybersecurity strategy. We have an industrial defence strategy because it's a critical area. We are involved in the construction and maintenance of aircraft. We have a defence strategy. We don't depend entirely on the foreign side in terms of defence. I think the same must be true with regard to cybersecurity. We are not going to build computers, but we have brains, research centres, specialists who today have no means to develop software that will allow us to better identify the people, the governments, the institutions that attack us and threaten us in order to neutralise them more effectively. Prime Minister, what are your intentions at this level? Finally, Prime Minister, could you give me some information on terrorism and jihad, since it is current. You hear that there are a series of measures that can be taken quickly. You have to talk to Google, Facebook and ban certain sites. We must not let Anonymous do the work we can do in relation to certain hazardous sites. I think, for my part, that we must also prevent anonymity on the Internet, from the moment we are in a public space, which is the new public space of an entire generation. Today, young people, among others, communicate mainly through the web. We must not allow anonymity because some people, behind this anonymity, call for holy war, hatred of the other, offer training in the handling of weapons, the manufacture of explosives. Here too, we must be able to work and act quickly, especially in a legislative way. I'm sorry I've been a little long, but the subject was important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u9	Mr President, Minister, first of all, my best wishes for the new year. This is my first oral question in this assembly and immediately to the Prime Minister. It's an honor for me to do this. I share a great deal of the same concern expressed by Mr Dallemagne. I believe he will also have been satisfied when he read in the coalition agreement that cyber security is a very important priority. I believe that cyber attackers are often not obscure groups of IT technicians or a gang of nitwit, but that real terrorist groups and intelligence services from other countries are active in this area. We should not be naive in this respect. I therefore believe that there is a need for a sound policy in this area to ensure the safety of our country, our public services and our businesses. The coalition agreement also explicitly states the optimum protection of critical infrastructure and the need to get a clear picture of it. I believe that a number of facts have recently come to light that prove that there is a real need for such a policy. Let us think of Sony's system that was probably hacked by North Korea. Today we also read in the newspaper that the Twitter account of the US Central Command, the US military command, was probably hacked by IS. In fact, we should all not go so far as to look for it. They also referred to Belgacom and recently there were problems with the FPS Foreign Affairs. My question goes a little deeper into the events at Belgacom. In September, this was published extensively in the newspapers. By the way, Belgacom's hacking has assumed greater proportions than was originally assumed. For two and a half years I would like to speak in the conditional manner because I do not know the investigation in this respect. have gathered information from Belgacom and Bisk from the British intelligence service, and it was able to retrieve data from thousands of customers worldwide, including NATO and the European Union. To my knowledge, this is an unseen fact of state-sponsored hacking. From the documents that Edward Snowden leaked, we can also review seven status reports and three power points which indicate that the intelligence service would have passed intelligence from March 2011 to March 2012 to friendly intelligence services, the so-called Five Eyes, namely the intelligence services of the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Great Britain. I have a few specific questions about this. As far as I know, there has been no official response from the British intelligence service or the British government. I understand that you have no intention of calling on Britain and that you wish to await the judicial investigation. Why do you do that? Why does it react in such a wait-and-see way? Can we expect a response from NATO or the European Union, which apparently have also been the victims of this attack? We also know that Minister De Croo has made a number of announcements about certain investments. Presumably this is about building the center for cybersecurity, which has already been announced by the previous government and is also explicitly stated in the government agreement. I have a few specific questions on this. What is the timing for the establishment of that centre? The centre would have a dozen employees, led by a director and a deputy director. Do you have any idea how many employees are coming? What is the timing for the recruitment procedure and how does it work? Are the academic world and the business world involved in that centre through a kind of advisory body or a consultation procedure so that there is a good interaction? Furthermore, I think it is relevant to know how it is financed. Finally, as far as I know, that centre is not yet there. In the meantime, however, there are threats. What action does this government take to ensure that cyber security is guaranteed pending the establishment of that centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the questions that relate to important priorities. Over the last two to four years we have faced new threats of terrorism. We recently saw examples of terrorism in Paris and in the Jewish museum in Brussels a few months ago. Cybercrime is a new threat to European countries, including Belgium. I note that the previous government adopted a policy paper at the end of 2012, a strategy for the fight against cybercrime. A few weeks ago, after the formation of the new government, the royal decrees were published. On behalf of the whole government, I can say that the fight against cybercrime has a strong priority for us. It is not by chance that our coalition agreement states that cybercrime can do real damage to our country. Mr Dallemagne, we have confirmed this in recent days. You have given figures which may be correct and which indicate a significant potential damage for our country and for Europe in general. A strong approach is therefore necessary, and we must implement a strong political will. However, I am very pleased if MEPs from both the majority and the opposition want to follow regularly in the committee the efforts of the government in the light of the fight against cybercrime. I was going to say that as an introduction. Finally, Mr Dallemagne, I will give you a number of answers to the many specific questions you refer to regarding the number of attacks recorded in Belgium. For 2013, CERT.be counted 6,678 incidents with respect to computers certified by CERT.be. This probably only represents part of the incidents. The actual number is probably much higher than that recorded. Indeed, the total number of attacks has so far not been fully statistically monitored since not all incidents systematically give rise to a complaint. As far as the Belgacom hacking is concerned, a judicial investigation is under way. You will therefore understand that, like you, I must respect the secrecy of the instruction. We are following the situation very closely with the minister concerned, Mr. From Croo. At the diplomatic level, we are also following the situation closely. Initiatives have been taken by my advisers and myself to ensure that all countries potentially affected by this case can guarantee the full cooperation of their official departments. Again, as the investigation progresses, it is with pleasure that I will come to Parliament to provide relevant information on this subject. The Centre was formally established by the Royal Decree published on 21 November 2014. Immediately after the establishment of the government, we published the Moniteur belge. In a first phase, the staff will have a maximum of ten persons, namely a director, a deputy director, two project managers, a lawyer, a communication adviser and two secretariat staff. In addition, two other informants will be attracted. The Director and Deputy Director shall be appointed following Selor's selection after consultation of the KB in the Council of Ministers and after consultation of the Ministerial Committee on Intelligence and Security. I also want to confirm that, in the work of the Centre, we want to involve the members of the academic and economic community as closely as possible. They must be very directly involved in the strategy to be implemented. All staff will, of course, have to comply with the standard Selor selection procedures for the public service. As a national cyber security authority, the centre will mainly coordinate, manage and inform project management. It will also be responsible for crisis management in cooperation with the Government's crisis centre. Finally, it will become an interlocutor for various actors in the government, the business community and the scientific community, as well as the coordinated Belgian position on supra- and international fora. It does indeed play a coordinating and supporting role, in which the various existing services and authorities will continue to play their role. Their effective resources will also be strengthened. Through the follow-up of projects, the Centre will work with them to achieve the strategic objectives and cybersecurity. There are a few priorities. The establishment of a secure and reliable cyberspace that respects the fundamental rights and values of a modern society. Security and optimal protection of critical infrastructure and public systems against cyber threats. The development of own cybersecurity capabilities so as not to be dependent, Mr Dallemagne, other countries, on experts outside the Centre. It's obviously important. For the implementation of the Cyber Security Centre, budgetary resources of up to €900,000 will be provided immediately this year. These resources will have to ensure the start-up and establishment of the Centre at the level of both the necessary staff and the level of investment. In order to show the will to move quickly, I would point out that the premises are already identified, a few tens or hundreds of meters from here, that the function profiles are finalized. There is the will to go very quickly to be able to actually launch operations on this subject in the next few weeks. At the same time, the operation of CERT.be is ensured by a new agreement signed with Belnet. Funding for the continuation of the CERT service is thus provided for 2015 and the CERT framework will be expanded in 2015 with an investment of 1.7 million euros in addition to the 900,000 euros I have just mentioned. Among the first initiatives, there will also be information campaigns on the use of enhanced passwords, which is one of the basic points in an attempt to improve the situation. Mobilization of all actors will also be organised. In addition, I can give the following up-to-date information in response to the additional questions put by Mr Dallemagne and Mr Buysrogge. Firstly, the control of social networks is important. I have a meeting with the people of Google in a few days in Davos. I am aware that this is an opportunity to explore how to bring together the states and the big companies with a view to better coordination and strategy. The meeting in Davos on cyber security will be important. This is a new fundamental problem which exists not only in Belgium but in many countries around the world. I will try to be as active as possible in this area, including at international level. This can be done in Belgium, but there is also a strategy at international level that can be supported together with the partners. Secondly, the National Security Council. Better coordination of our security services is a priority for this government. Following the attacks in Paris last week, I immediately took the initiative, with my colleague in charge of security, to call together all our security services to take the first concrete steps in relation to safety in Belgium. We have to work very quickly. On Friday, the nuclear cabinet will hold a first reading on the establishment of a National Security Council. Mr Dallemagne, you have spoken of royal decrees and you fear that the law is not sufficient. I can assure you that the legal situation will be guaranteed and that the National Security Council will integrate into its coordinated approach the whole issue of cybercrime, which is an integral part of the overall security strategy. I also want to say it formally. We are undoubtedly at a time when, in all European countries and in Belgium too, budgetary resources are being counted. But the government intends to protect as much as possible the means for security and the fight against terrorism in order to guarantee the full operational capacity of its services to combat radicalism, terrorism and raise the level of protection. I want to conclude by telling you that I think these issues can go beyond the conventional framework of majority/opposition democratic debates. We are faced with new problems and incidents. I hope that it will be possible to have a positive and constructive dialogue between majority and opposition. I hope that it will also be possible to get the support over the next few days and weeks, not only from the majority but also from the opposition, for the first concrete measures proposed by the government At such important moments it is important that a broad consensus can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u11	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for responding and, in particular, for expanding your responses to the news. I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that in Davos you were going to meet with these great internet operators, notably Google. I think it is indeed time for governments to have close contacts with these operators. Large industries, large companies have daily contacts with Google, Facebook, etc. to defend their interests, their economy, their image. Governments, on the other hand, have still not found this path and I therefore think it is important to tell them that it is time that these networks are no longer vectors of hatred, terror, threats to our security, and that we must act together, between these great entrepreneurs and governments, so that this is no longer the case. Secondly, I understand the steps you are taking through the new National Security Council. It must be said that there was already a College of Intelligence and Security, that there was already coordination. Today it will be under your authority; yesterday it was under the authority of two ministers. Above all, I hope that beyond these devices, we are moving really fast now. Don't take it personally, but I've been revolting on this issue for a very long time because it's never been a political priority. Your party was in the previous government, mine too, and so I don't make it a question of majority or opposition. My formation did not have the role of the Prime Minister who at that time had the impetus in this area. What I would like to see is that we stop paying for words and that we really move forward on this issue and that we really give the budget money. I must confess that the amount of 900,000 euros does not seem to me to be very consistent for a Centre that has such a responsibility for our security. I hear it's a first move. I hope he will be followed by other gestures because of the ten people you mentioned, there are two computer scientists. The others are there for communication, etc. I believe it is important that we have experts who understand what is happening, who can actually expose and uncover these threats and who can produce services to better protect us in this area. Unfortunately, you did not answer the question of sanctions and did not say who had been punished today. You said the Belgacom case was under way. There's been a lot of cases like this before. The Just Lipse case was twelve years ago. No one has ever been punished in this case. There were the incidents at the Prime Minister's Chancery. I remember questioning the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. De Gucht, at the time, in 2008. He said, "Yes, you're right, I'm being cyber-attacked, I've been attacked." We never knew by whom, how, and who had been punished. I therefore believe that Parliament has the right to know whether at any given time someone has to answer for his or her actions on these crime issues. I think it's important. We can no longer content ourselves with a reply that the case is under way and that it is not appropriate to speak on this subject. We have the right to know whether people have been punished in these areas. On political reactions, you say that there are. I think it is appropriate to give them publicity. Citizens must know the follow-up given by Britain, Russia or the United States. Earlier, I took the example of the United States: following the meeting with the then Prime Minister, Mr. Di Rupo, Ambassador John Kerry and Mr. Obama had promised to amend their law. This was not the case: after the debate, the law remained unchanged. In fact, the debate in the United States was whether to better protect American citizens from computer intrusions; Belgian citizens were never mentioned. That is why I believe that follow-up is essential. Finally, in terms of terrorism, beyond these dialogues with these operators, we should be able to make arrangements ourselves. That is why my group will table a bill to prohibit anonymity from the moment we speak in a virtual public space. This is the same phenomenon as for burka: we have banned it in order to remain identifiable in public space. The canvas is a new public space and it is also a question of being recognizable. This will help to prevent some from unleashing, hating, calling for hatred, calling for jihad or calling for racism on networks, as it happens today. We see how this threatens our society, our youth, our children. It is time to act in this area at the legislative level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for your full answer and for stressing once again that cyber security is a top priority of this government. You mention the figure of over 6 000 attacks, registered by the CERT, and you say that this is just the tip of the iceberg. This demonstrates the need for a strong policy in this area. My reply consists of four comments. Firstly, in view of the current legal procedure, you do not want to comment on Belgacom. I understand that, and I'll settle for it. You also say that you are doing the necessary things in this area by diplomatic means. I think that is really good and I think it is necessary because we cannot tolerate such a thing from a friendly country. Secondly, the creation of the CCCB is a good thing. During the previous term of office, a period of time has passed to achieve that establishment. The fact that this is now accelerating is, in my opinion, a good thing. You can certainly count on our support. I can only welcome the fact that you wish to involve the academic and economic world as far as possible. Thirdly, more towards the future, I believe that it is useful to keep us informed of the results you have achieved in relation to the Davos meeting. If it is easier for you, I would like to come back to that with a follow-up question to find out what happened and what initiatives are being put forward. Fourthly, regarding the National Security Council, I can only welcome the fact that cybersecurity is a full part of an effective and complete security policy. I really think that's necessary. You call for a consensus across the boundaries of majority and opposition, and you will not be surprised that you can count on our support in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u13	For some years now, Prime Minister, appropriations have been entered in the budget of the French Community for the purpose of subsidising a non-profit association but above all to finance a French-speaking private school in Voeren. This has probably been the case since 1992. We have had this in black and white since November 2005, because it has been a fixed heading since the 2006 financial year. Under this heading, the 2015 budget of the French Community provides a further subsidy for the Centre Sportif et Culturel des Fourons. For those who don't know the non-profit association, the following. It is a non-profit association with its registered office in Saint-Martens-Voeren, and I have once again snorted up its statutes. The social objective is very clear and consists of four points. Firstly, the creation of a cultural and sports centre in Voeren. Secondly, the management and operation of this cultural and sports centre. Thirdly, the provision of assistance to all cultural and sports associations in Voeren with French as language without distinction. Fourthly, supporting French-speaking education in Voeren. The association may, inter alia, rent and acquire premises and goods as well as cover operating costs in order to enable French-speaking education. The non-profit organisation therefore benefits, among other things, a French-speaking school in Voeren. The subsidising of French-speaking education in Voeren by this non-profit association has a very long and turbulent history which I will not repeat within the time frame of an interplay, but it is clear that all these years have been constantly trying to get that education to take place by the French-speaking Community. If we add the judgments of the then Arbitration Court, there is no doubt that the granting of a grant by the French Community to that non-profit organisation for the organisation of French-speaking primary education is contrary to the Constitution. Under the Constitution, the French Community does not even have powers under special laws to subsidise institutions located in Flanders. In other words, the whole situation has been a flagrant example of a violation of federal loyalty by the French Community for many years. I understand that in the coalition agreement, you hold that federal loyalty in high esteem. I therefore have two specific questions. I hope my first question will turn out to be a rhetorical question. Do you agree that this method of action by the French Community is contrary to the Constitution and to federal loyalty? Secondly, the logical consequence, what will you do about it? What initiatives are there to stop this illegal flow of subsidies? Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court has been given new powers, including to review decrees against the principle of federal loyalty. Will you take an initiative to challenge this at the Constitutional Court or will you take other initiatives to stop this illegal flow of subsidies? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I can tell you that this matter has not been the subject of discussion in the federal government which is not competent in this matter, since it is the competence of the Communities. In the event of a conflict of interest, the Consultation Committee may be convened. However, no such action has yet been brought under the 2015 budget of the French Community. On Thursday 8 January 2015, I met with the Prime Ministers of the sub-areas, informally and in preparation for the forthcoming Consultative Committee. They have confirmed that they wish to be loyal to the federal level, regardless of their political colour and their region of origin. Finally, in order to ensure a constructive dialogue between policy levels, we agreed that the Consultative Committee would meet at least once a month. This was not always the case in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, but in fact I have not received an answer to my first question, whether you agree that this situation is a flagrant violation of the Constitution and of federal loyalty. I am confident that all your partners in the Consultative Committee will say that they are loyal and that they are also committed to this federal loyalty, but you could at least present the situations in which the Constitution is flagrantly violated there. You're hiding behind the fact that you're not qualified. However, you can rely on the Constitutional Court, which has in the meantime been given the powers to do so. This is quite apart from the fact that my fellow Members in the Flemish Parliament can put forward a proposal for conflict of interest, which would not be the first time. I insist that you can take initiatives in this area and will therefore table a motion of recommendation to call on the federal government to appeal against the provisions of the French Community because subsidies are being granted to institutions located in Flanders, which is flagrantly opposed to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u16	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to the 2015 budget of the French Community, in particular to the item in which a grant of EUR 415 000 is entered for the non-profit organisation "Centre sportif et culturel des Fourons' (French Community, document 49 (2014-2015) - No 49 (2014-2015) 1 (annexe 2), p. 236 and 239, programme 7, activité 76, 33.05); - having regard to the fact that this non-profit association operates, inter alia, a French-speaking school in Voeren; - whereas the French Community is not competent to subsidise educational or other institutions in Flanders; - having regard to Article 143 of the Constitution as regards respect for the federal loyalty which the Communities and the Regions must observe in the exercise of their powers, - whereas the French Community does not respect the federal loyalty; - having regard to Article 1 (3) of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court; - whereas the Council of Ministers may bring an action before the Constitutional Court on the basis of the abovementioned provisions, asks the federal government appeal against the provisions of the 2015 budget of the French Community providing grants to institutions established in Flanders." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to the 2015 budget of the French Community, in particular the item where a grant of EUR 415 000 is entered for the ASBL "Centre sportif et culturelle des Fourons" (French Community, document 49 (2014-2015) – No 1 (Annex 2), pp. 236 and 239, programme 7, activity 76, 33.05); - Whereas this ASBL operates, inter alia, a French-speaking school in Fourons; - Whereas the French Community is not entitled to subsidise education or other institutions in Flanders; - having regard to Article 143 of the Constitution concerning respect for federal loyalty by the Communities and the Regions in the exercise of their powers; - Whereas the French Community therefore does not respect federal loyalty; - having regard to article 1, paragraph 3, of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court; - Whereas, under the above provisions, the Council of Ministers may lodge an appeal with the Constitutional Court, asks the federal government to bring an action against the provisions of the 2015 budget of the French Community which provide for the granting of grants to institutions established in Flanders." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Philippe Pivin. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Philippe Pivin. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, when he took office as President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker committed himself to launching an investment plan before the end of 2014. The importance of this investment plan must not be underestimated because it must once again boost the European economy to ensure that we get out of the negative economic spiral. It is therefore important for Belgium to take part in this investment plan and adopt a proactive stance on this issue. Meanwhile, the Flemish Government has listed some twenty-eight projects worth EUR 24 billion. I also understand that the Walloon Government has put forward priority projects worth EUR 3.6 billion. It is now up to a working group, composed of representatives of the various Member States, to define the criteria for investment. Of course, the biggest investments are with us, with the Länder, and not with the federal government. My question is how will Belgium coordinate the main investment plans for the total Belgian economy, both the Flemish economy, the Brussels economy and the Walloon economy? In what way will we be able to emphasise the criteria? For us, the criterion is above all a sustainable and effective economy for the future. For us, this cannot be one-off projects without a future perspective that do not contribute to a sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, a task force has effectively worked on a project list that could possibly be supported by the Juncker Plan. This list was presented at the Ecofin informal meeting in September 2014 and approved by the Member States, the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. The task force was to identify the investments at European level, which had not yet been achieved by any reason, and to analyse the obstacles to this. The task force focused on the following sectors: research, innovation, digital economy, energy, transport, social infrastructures and environment. The task force's work provided a list of some two thousand projects worth more than EUR 1 000 billion. The Belgian projects, which were compiled in close cooperation with the sub-areas, account for 77 billion euros. The full list was shared with Parliament. As far as Belgium is concerned, projects from the following sectors were presented: transport, energy, social infrastructures, ICT, environment, health, research and development. This long list now forms a dynamic basis, a pipeline as the European Commission calls it, which can be modified. In order to implement the list, the European Commission still needs to do preparatory work. It is now necessary to determine how the European Fund for Strategic Investments will work, i.e. on the basis of which selection criteria and under what management. The European Commission will present a draft regulation on this matter this week. The selection criteria for the projects remain to be determined, but I can say that I am not in favour of a geographical distribution of the fund. Projects will have to be evaluated on the basis of their merits. The European Council also asked the Council of the European Union, Ecofin in particular, and the European Parliament to reach an agreement on the fund's legislative framework by June 2015. Only then can investment policy and, as far as we are concerned, Belgian projects be revised to analyse the feasibility and eligibility of projects under the Fund. Consultations with the sub-areas will continue in this light. As you understand, Mr Juncker's project is still under way. My government will work dynamically with the European Commission and the EIB during this first semester so that concrete results can be presented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I am concerned about the criteria. You yourself say that you are not in favour of geographical criteria. I believe that it is a good starting point for the projects to be screened on their merits, but criteria still have to be laid down. I hope that Belgium will choose criteria such as sustainability. I mean, among other things, sustainability in relation to the social aspect, but above all, sustainable projects that the European economy and, consequently, the Belgian economy can bring forward. I hope that there will be a discussion on this with the Länder to see what criteria Belgium will support in assessing these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-13-54-commissie-ic051x.u20	All the oral questions on this morning's agenda have been put. I have seen the lights on and off a few times here, although I thought that the switch-off plan would only be carried out in extreme cold conditions and between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. Maybe it was someone who didn't know the switches well. Our next meeting will take place this afternoon at 3 p.m.
