ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are starting with a little delay and with the Members who are already present. Debates of the European Parliament 2366 by Mrs Gabriels has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, the new Afghan Minister for Refugees and Return would have called in a letter to several European countries to stop the expulsions to Afghanistan. According to the Minister, the situation in the country has recently deteriorated considerably. At least 80% of Afghanistan would be unsafe. The ambassador in London would have confirmed this message. My question is whether our country has also received such a request from the Afghan authorities, or perhaps via Europe? What is our country's attitude to this request? How is the current return to Afghanistan going in practice? Does the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless otherwise assess the applications from Afghanistan in the light of the deteriorating security situation in the country, or does this happen when assessing a return? What is the rate of recognition of applications? Have any deportations to Afghanistan taken place recently? Can you give the figures for 2013, 2014 and the first months of 2015? What do you expect in the coming months? What policy does the Commissioner-General, yourself and the government have in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I am in favour of efficiency, so I will not repeat the questions that Mrs Lanjri has asked. I had put about the same questions. I'd like to ask an additional question. What is the status of the Memorandum of Understanding, the readmission agreement between Belgium and Afghanistan? Are there still clear agreements on expulsions? How many Afghans were effectively deported in the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has not received a request from the Afghan authorities. We haven't received a letter either. Each individual dossier shall be thoroughly analysed. If there are no elements preventing the return, the person concerned shall be repatriated to Afghanistan. Each repatriated Afghan can volunteer with a local partner and receive support to provide the basic necessities. In 2013, 46 Afghans were repatriated, in 2014 13, and in January and February 2015 only three. With regard to the MOU, I can tell you that, since there were presidential elections in Afghanistan in 2014, a new government had to be formed. The new Minister for Refugees and Repatriation has been known since January 2015. Since then, there have been no new developments regarding the conclusion of an MOU or an agreement with Afghanistan. Belgium respects the oral agreements reached in the past with the competent Afghan authorities. This isn't going too bad. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say the following. The CGVS has long considered the situation in Afghanistan to be particularly problematic. This is also demonstrated by the relatively high level of protection. The policy of the CGVS on Afghanistan is based on the following guidelines: Firstly, irrespective of the region of origin, refugee status is granted, taking into account the individual situation or the profile of the applicant. This also applies to persons who, for example, come from Kabul. Secondly, if there is no reason to grant refugee status, it will be examined whether there is reason to grant subsidiary protection status in view of the general security situation. A distinction shall be made according to the region of origin of the applicant. The situation in Afghanistan appears to be very different from one region to another. Thirdly, there appears to be no reason to grant protection to every Afghan simply because of its origin. This has already been demonstrated by UNHCR guidelines on Afghanistan. Fourthly, and finally, it is wrong to say that the CGIS would regard certain regions as safe. Protection status is also granted to persons from Kabul, for example. In this case, account shall be taken of the individual situation and the profile of the applicant. The CGSS is constantly monitoring the situation in Afghanistan. The situation has recently been re-evaluated. At that time, there appeared to be no reason to change the policy described above significantly. Questions have also been asked about the number of awards. I will provide you with the statistics requested, although Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that you should actually submit a written question to this effect. The number of asylum applications, including multiple applications, was 1 907 in 2014 and 266 in January and February 2015. The number of multiple applications for asylum was 1 259 and 88 respectively. So there are a lot of multiple asylum applications. Then I give the number of recognitions granted by the CGVS in 2014 and 2015. For 2014, refugee status: 512 decisions; subsidiary protection: 438 decisions; total: 950 positive decisions. During the first two months of 2015, refugee status: 58 decisions; subsidiary protection: 56 decisions; total: 114 positive decisions. I have more figures, I do not know if you have much, but I am happy to give you the rate of recognition, Mrs Lanjri. The percentage of recognitions compared to decisions on the substance, i.e. excluding multiple asylum applications, was 75.7 % in 2014 and is 86.3 % in 2015, i.e. an increase of 10%. With the figures of recognitions including refusal of consideration for multiple applications, one has to be careful, we prefer to use the first percentage, because when one counts the multiple, one always has some pollution in the figures. In any case, these percentages are 57.3 % in 2014 and 60.9 % in the first two months of 2015. The Commissioner-General communicates almost always only those first figures because these are also the figures given internationally. Then I'll give you the numbers for voluntary return by IOM. In 2014, 21 people returned voluntarily and four people in the first two months of 2015. Afghanistan policy has remained the same, it is viewed individually and there are no safe zones. Each dossier shall be examined individually by the independent Commissioner-General.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is true that a long time ago we took the decision to have an independent body take these decisions, which is a good thing. The fact that the Afghan Refugee Minister called not to point out people to Afghanistan points to a problem. But perhaps that does not apply to our country, or even to our country, when I look at the figures. I note a high degree of recognition and I note that this case is considered on a case-by-case basis. Perhaps the problem was that in other European countries the expulsion rate was much higher. I don't know if you have any comparisons between our country and other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u6	Compared to Norway, our numbers are very low. You didn't ask me about that, so I'm not there, but you can find it online.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u7	I note that a general appeal has been made to the European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u8	We didn't receive a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u9	Perhaps this is because the number of expulsions decreased in 2014 compared to 2013. Of course, we still have to wait for 2015. I also hope that the Commissioner-General will continue to examine the applications with due care, first in the context of asylum or subsidiary protection, and that we will be very careful to refer them back to certain regions where neither one would be given either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I find it strange that a newly elected minister of a particular country should send letters to European countries asking that Afghans flee here not to return. I'll probably be the only one who thinks that's weird. Secondly, he sends these letters to certain countries and not to other countries. I would like to know what is behind this and whether this is being discussed at European level. You are making a comment about Norway. Apparently, the Netherlands also received such a letter. With me, something like this raises more questions than it provides answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u11	I hadn't thought of it that way, but I'm sure you're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u12	Maybe we should find out. Can they, as new ministers, not guarantee security in their country? I find it interesting to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u13	Mrs. Smeyers is not here for the time being. Hopefully she'll come. I shall pass the floor to Mrs Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you know and despite international conventions prohibiting these practices, female genital mutilation (FGM) remains widespread, mainly in some African countries. It is estimated that the number of women excised worldwide is 130 million. Since 2006, asylum applications for female circumcision appear to be on the rise. Moreover, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) believes that female genital mutilation (FGM) is third after sexual orientation and forced marriage in terms of asylum claims only on gender-related grounds. In 2014, CGRA reportedly handled 701 cases concerning these mutilations, compared to 554 cases in 2013. Of the cases processed in 2014, the agency reported that 518 decisions on the merits had been taken and 355 cases had been granted refugee status, or 68.5%. The main countries of origin of these women are Guinea, Djibouti and Somalia. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm these figures? Are there any special conditions for the reception and support of these women applicants? Is psycho-medical-social follow-up planned in the event of a finding or suspicion of FGM? Is a relay to specialized services planned? Do the various actors in asylum procedures based on this FGM motive benefit from specific training and awareness programmes? Finally, is there an effective prevention of FGM among first-time arrivals, particularly as regards the prohibition of such practices in Belgian legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you are asking a very good question, because it deals with a delicate and very serious subject. I have the honour to provide you with the following information. CGRA provided me with several statistics. For 2014, this proceeding took 701 decisions based on the FGM ground. In 2013, the number of decisions based on the same ground was 554. Of the 701 decisions in 2014, 183 were based on multiple applications, 140 were considered and 43 were rejected. Of the 518 cases dealt with on the merits, 356 closed on a positive decision, i.e. a protection rate of 68.7%. In 2013, the protection rate was 38.4%. Of the 510 cases dealt with on the merits, 196 had given rise to a positive decision. The number of FGM decisions increased by 26.5 per cent in all decisions, while the recognition rate increased by 30 per cent. The main country of origin of persons claiming the MGF motive is Guinea, which with 419 cases far ahead of other countries. Following are Somalia, Djibouti, Nigeria and Sudan. The fight against gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation, is one of the components of Fedasil's reception policy. For several years, Fedasil has been working closely with the Group for the Elimination of Sexual Mutilation (GAMS) and INTACT, two specialized organizations in this field. GAMS is fighting the practice of female genital mutilation. As for INTACT, it is an association that ensures the legal support of the victims of excision and other genital mutilation. At the CGRA level, protection officers responsible for examining asylum applications based on the FGM motive are adequately supervised to carry out their missions in this area. They have all the useful information about the actual situation in the different countries of origin of asylum seekers. They are required to undergo in-depth training on this issue and are provided with clear guidelines for the investigation of such cases. Through collaboration with these organizations, Fedasil is able to work on awareness-raising and on the provision of appropriate training covering all aspects of female genital mutilation: definition of such mutilations, extent of the problem, socio-cultural aspects of such practices, medical and psychological aspects and legal aspects. The training is intended for both social workers and medical staff in the structures of the Fedasil reception network. The risk of genital mutilation is therefore always a focus in the day-to-day accompaniment of asylum-seekers from regions of the world with an increased risk factor. Asylum-seekers who are victims of genital mutilation are regularly referred to GAMS for more specific support. Preventively, contact is made with GAMS as soon as there is a risk of mutilation of young girls hosted in the host network. It should be recalled that the practice of FGM is prohibited in Belgium and is liable to criminal prosecution. In addition, CGRA goes further than simply reviewing files. While refugee status protects the mother and her daughter from expulsion to the country where they are at risk of being subjected to the practice concerned, it is also important to protect the girl in Belgium. This is why CGRA established a follow-up mechanism in 2008. Through this procedure, CGRA draws the attention of the girl's mother or parents to the fact that this practice is severely punished in Belgium. It raises awareness and empowers on this point. The girl's mother or parents must sign a commitment to honour, by which they undertake not to practice genital mutilation on the girl's person or to practice it by third parties. The young girls concerned are subject to an annual medical examination, which must be submitted to the CGRA, and where it is found that the woman concerned has not undergone genital mutilation. To date, more than 500 underage girls have been involved in such follow-up. The deterrent effect of this follow-up is undeniable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I welcome the policy in this area, because in such situations women are the first victims. Both recognition of status and follow-up are positive. I would be interested to know the reactions in case of refusal. I assume that there are, and that in such situations, the mother has been examined and there are certificates available, but I will come back with another question on the subject. I will be attentive to the follow-up, and I have no doubt that you too will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u17	Mr President, I still have the right to reply. Mr Secretary of State, after hearing your reply, I can only be satisfied that the guidance is being given. There have been figures for some time now, to the extent that they are all clear and above the radar there is mutilation taking place here. So prevention and sensitisation are certainly needed and it is good that this is used.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u18	Please excuse me for just now, Mrs. Smeyers, but I did not understand you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u19	Minister, on 9 March, on the occasion of International Women's Day, I was pleased to be invited to a conference-debate on tightening the rules on family reunification and its impact on the situation of migrant women. The conclusions of this meeting with associations, officials and the public concerned show that more and more migrant women are becoming vulnerable as a result of this tightening. For example, a working group was established to propose a local plan. The aim is to better combat discrimination against women. However, it is important to remember that domestic or domestic violence can occur in various forms: psychological, administrative, financial or sexual. It is not the prerogative of a group, nor is it determined by age, origin, culture or social affiliation. It mainly affects women. The tools to combat such violence apply to all women, regardless of their origin or residence permit. Migrant women are no more victims of domestic violence than Belgian women or women with a situation established in Belgium, but they face difficulties of a different and more specific nature. These include isolation due to the absence of a family or social network in Belgium, administrative and financial dependency or language dependence on the spouse, fear of addressing the authorities in a context of suspicion of migrants. While Belgian legislation on the residence of aliens provides for a mechanism whereby these victims may request the maintenance of their right of residence in the event of separation with their partner, these provisions are unfortunately very little known and not always properly applied. Obstacles to their implementation remain numerous. The gaps in the protection and treatment of such persons are a real obstacle to the full empowerment of such women. Fear and the risk of expulsion are major obstacles to the protection of these precarious women. Mr Franken, I had also addressed my question to Mrs Sleurs and she gave me a number of answers which I will briefly remind members of the committee. In her replies, she explained to me the existence of this operative paragraph in paragraph 4. 4 of the law. The Institute for Equal Opportunities carries out work at this level. She stressed that victims of domestic violence were being given special attention by the Institute, which was preparing to make recommendations and proposals in the framework of a draft 2015-2019 plan to combat violence against women, among others. It also stressed the administrative burden discouraging victims from taking steps and encouraging them to stay with their partner until the end of the five years. Today, as a result of the proposed amendment, it is no longer three years of cohabitation with spouses that are required, but five. Mr Secretary of State, in addition to your Government's stated commitment to the practical implementation of Resolution 1325 and the implementation of the second National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security, what concrete measures are being taken to ensure that migrant women who are victims of domestic violence can be effectively protected and are no longer victims of this double violence? Do the various actors involved in asylum procedures benefit from specific training programmes and awareness-raising to accompany these migrant women who are victims of violence? What dialogue is in place between the various federal public services, federated entities and local authorities to provide specific solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u20	Mr President, honourable Member, as regards the training of staff, pursuant to Article 13 of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2003 laying down certain elements of the procedure to be followed by the services of the Office of Foreigners responsible for examining applications for asylum on the basis of the Law of 1980, officials of the competent service receive specific training on the application of the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951 relating to the status of refugees, the legal provisions relating to the status of subsidiary protection, the human rights conventions which bind Belgium and the other bases of protection provided for in the law. Asylum-seekers' hearings and intercultural communication are also part of the training programme, as well as basic information on the specific needs of vulnerable groups. Pursuant to Article 3(2) of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2003 laying down the procedure before the CGRA and its functioning, a centre for knowledge and learning has been set up within the Office of the Commissioner-General in order to provide staff with basic training and in-service training relating in particular to the application of the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951 relating to the status of refugees, the legal provisions relating to the status of subsidiary protection, the human rights conventions which bind Belgium and the other bases of protection provided for in the law. As for the concrete measures taken by the Government, the Institute for Gender Equality has drawn up a draft strategy for the future multi-year national plan of action to combat gender-based violence, which is currently being submitted to the members of the various Governments. The Office of Foreigners participated in the working group set up within this framework. The Foreign Office has appointed a Family Regroupement Counsellor as a contact point to set up a network of agents specialising in the various subjects generated by the Foreign Office and will define the guidelines and possible measures in accordance with the priorities set by the hierarchy and the topics concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u21	Mr. Secretary of State, you are making progress in French, but I am not satisfied with the answers I am getting. I'm sorry to have to say that. Of course, I am pleased that you are organizing basic intercultural training for agents. I am also pleased that there is a specialization at the Foreign Office to deal with this type of situation. However, the problem that we pointed out in committee, when you tabled a bill in your presence, is the difficulty for the migrant woman to be able to draw up a file immediately when she arrives before the administration of the Office of Foreigners. That's impossible. The exception exists in the law to protect women who are subjected to violence, but in reality a person who is subjected to physical or psychological violence is unable to produce documents from a doctor or the police because he or she does not know the ways and means. The idea we are working on in the context of this bill is to say that we must change the law to allow a time for the creation of a file that obviously corresponds to the spirit of the law that had been considered at the time of the amendment, namely, the protection of migrant women. On this aspect of things, Mr. Franken, I have not heard anything from you. The Institute for Equal Opportunities, as well as the actors in the field, are discussing administrative problems to be dealt with. I imagine we will have an opportunity to come back to this in discussions about our bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u22	Mr Kir, I also have a question from Mrs Lanjri in which she asks for figures. However, they show that it is possible to draw up a file. Cases are recognized. I think the truth is mixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u23	Secretary of State, however, the actors on the ground all say the opposite. The Institute itself says the opposite since it explains that there is a problem of training front-line workers such as police, administration. This is reflected in the reports of the Institute for Equal Opportunities. On the occasion of the conference-debate in which I participated, it was something that was again explained. The law exists, but people don't necessarily know it. And above all, we have to establish a fairly thick file. It's impossible for someone who's never been out of the house and never been able to file a complaint. What is needed is not to change the law from the bottom to the bottom, but to allow time to build the case. When you have to apply for an urban planning permit, when you are in breach, the municipal authority will give you some time to enter the file. Such accommodation should be introduced into the law to deal with as many situations as possible on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Flemish press has largely echoed your comments on hundreds of criminal regularizations by Belgium. Already, while you were a Member of Parliament, you and our colleague Sarah Smeyers had tabled a number of parliamentary questions to successive competent ministers, namely Melchior Wathelet and Maggie De Block, concerning this challenging practice. At the time, you advanced the figure of 81 regularizations of this type. Today, a report from the Office of Foreigners tells us that this number is far higher as it shows 669 documented cases. You have singularly broken with past practices by removing any tolerance for crime with regard to the issuance of a residence permit. You also declare that you want to review these 669 problematic cases resulting from the massive regularization campaigns conducted by the CDH. In concrete terms, how do you intend to carry out the screening of these cases? What will be your criteria for ordering the withdrawal of the residence permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u25	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. I asked the Foreign Office to review the 669 files on a case-by-case basis. First, in the case of persons authorized to stay despite the presence of previous acts of public order, if new facts disturbing public order have been committed after obtaining the residence permit, it shall be examined, in the light of the facts committed, after examination of articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and of the regulations in force, whether the residence permit may be withdrawn and, where appropriate, the person concerned's return to his country of origin or residence abroad. Secondly, for persons authorised to stay and who have committed acts of public policy after obtaining a residence permit, it will be assessed in the light of Articles 3 and 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the regulations in force if the residence permit can be withdrawn and, where appropriate, the person concerned can return to his country of origin or residence abroad. Each file is being reviewed on the basis of the elements on the administrative file of the persons concerned. This is a long-term task for my administration, because it must collect information from the judiciary. By the end of August, this enormous task is expected to be completed. I hope that we can correct this measure which I do not support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. My reply will take the form of sub-questions. What will be the consequences of the withdrawal of residence permits? Will these be direct administrative sanctions? What, for example, are the social benefits granted to these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u27	The result of the loss of residence permit is that the individual finds himself or herself in illegal residence. The result is a loss of all social rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u28	However, prison guards have informed me that people who have completed their prison stay often receive an expulsion order, but without anyone waiting for them when they leave prison to tell them the way to go. They find themselves left to themselves, without any means. The only way they can survive is to commit a new crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u29	This is another category. They are people who are incarcerated and who do not have a residence permit. In any case, I am always willing to answer your questions. This problem is indeed a priority for the government. We have doubled or even tripled the figures since October, that is, since the time I was sworn in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u30	Question No 3227 by Mr Friart is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 3246 is also converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Wilmès' 3375 was postponed. As Mrs Matz is not present and has not informed us, her question No. 3405 considered withdrawn by application of Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 3435 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, according to the press, four Yezidi women, who were due to testify in the European Parliament in Brussels on 24 March of the abuses committed by Daesh in Iraq, did not receive a visa from the Belgian administrative authorities, which led to the cancellation of the event, to the shock of the European Parliament authorities. These four people came from the Erbil region of Iraqi Kurdistan and were reportedly blocked in Istanbul on their journey to Brussels. The Belgian consulate in Istanbul would first have agreed in principle to the issuance of these visas, but ultimately did not. According to officials of the European Parliament, as reported by the press, the Office of Foreigners, on which you have the tutelage, finally notified them on 24 March that the visa was refused. The spokesman for the Office of Foreigners stated that "there was a migration risk reported by the Belgian consulate in Istanbul." The lack of coordination between your department and those managed by your colleagues in charge of Foreign Affairs and the Interior seems obvious. It is all the more deplorable that one of these four women was able to express herself, three days later, on 27 March 2015, before the United Nations Security Council in New York, where she clearly obtained a formal visa. Mr Secretary of State, could you elaborate on the political and administrative reasons why these four women were unable to come to the European Parliament? Why did they refuse a residence permit to these four women, while the American authorities granted it to them? However, it cannot be said that in the area of migration, the United States has lessons to learn from you. Have any of the Belgian authorities apologized to the authorities of the European Parliament, which is an important institution here in Brussels and of course to those concerned themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of March a delegation of four Jezid women was expected in the European Parliament in Brussels, including Vian Dakhil, the only representative of that population in the Iraqi Parliament, to speak and testify at a conference. However, that delegation was stopped at the airport in Istanbul, because the women did not get visas for our country. However, there would have been a basic agreement from the Belgian consulate on the spot. However, these visas could not be delivered, because this would have to be done for Iraq through the Belgian Embassy in Jordan. There was some ambiguity, but on 24 March the Foreign Office informed the services of the European Parliament that the visa had been refused. The reasons for this would not have been clear, but the result was that the conference was cancelled. According to certain media, this decision was not very well received by Parliamentary President Schulz. Mr Secretary of State, the truth will be somewhere in the middle. Can you tell me exactly what happened? In the meantime, you were briefed on that? How come the visas weren't delivered to the delegation of four Jezid women? Is it true that there has been some discontent in the European Parliament? Has anyone been in touch about that after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u33	Honourable member, I have the honour to provide you with the following information. Here's a quick history of the case. On 12 March 2015, the Consulate General of Belgium in Istanbul was informed of the invitation to testify, addressed to five members of the Yezidian community of Iraqi Kurdistan by the delegation for relations with Iraq of the European Parliament and asked the SPF Foreign Affairs about the way forward. On March 13, 2015, the FPS Foreign Affairs instructed the Consulate to forward visa applications to the Foreign Office for decision. He considered that the risk of asylum applications seemed high. On 18 March 2015, three women and one man came to the consulate and applied for a visa. On 19 March 2015, the applications are transmitted to the Office of Foreigners, which immediately realizes that it has no information on the conditions under which these persons will be staying in Belgium. However, they apply for a visa valid for ten days to attend a meeting of one hour and thirty on 26 March. On 23 and 24 March, the Foreign Affairs Office, my administration, repeatedly tries to reach the President of the European Parliament delegation and its representative, without success. It should be noted that the employee's telephone number, mentioned on the invitation, contains a figure too much, which is not really a sign of serious or professionalism. A visa application shall be submitted. There's no information. We must simply approve it. The State Department's sending it to my administration. Eighty percent of visa applications do not reach us, only if there is a high risk of migration or an abuse. So the file comes to us. We see virtually no information in the file. It does contain a letter from the European delegation chairman. That letter contains a telephone number for an employee to obtain more information. My records are trying to call, but it's not a correct number, because there's a number too much. Yeah, well, it's gonna be hard, of course. In this context, a very careful advice was given to the FPS Foreign Affairs. Because of the lack of information about the circumstances of the stay, my administration is quite rightly refusing to issue visas. This regrettable outcome could have been avoided if the invitation had also included information on the conditions of the reception and residence of the persons concerned, as should normally be the case. However, if we do not receive information from the applicant or from the applicant through the European Parliament, then we cannot know either. I also emphasise the exceptional nature of the decision to refuse visas to respond to an invitation from the European Parliament. I believe that the European Parliament will be able to confirm good cooperation with Belgium in this area. We work very well with the European Parliament. If the European Parliament asks us to give a visa to persons in the context of a hearing, a project or a parliamentary activity, then we will always try to accept it, but we must provide the right information and telephone numbers if we want more information. Finally, I would like to make one final point. It is the same European Parliament that issues a certain number of directives, including the issue of visas. These include deadlines. In itself, it is striking and remarkable that the same European Parliament is always asking for these deadlines to be reduced. Certain directives are adopted and then the European Parliament asks the Member State to grant exemptions from the directives adopted by Parliament itself. All right, we are always at the disposal of the European and other international institutions in our country, and we will continue to do so in the coming years. However, it must be played correctly and I must say that I was a little shocked by Mr Schulz's reaction. I think that perhaps he should have been better informed about the correct state of affairs in the file, rather than using my administration and my services directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which I find incomplete. You yourself said that there was structural cooperation between your services and Parliament. These Yezidi women are not the only people who have to testify before a committee or even a plenary in the European Parliament. There are hundreds of guests in the European Parliament every year and you have to give an opinion on visa applications every day. I think the excuse you're making (the number too in the phone number) is a little short. You have dozens of telephone numbers to reach the European Parliament and if necessary, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of the Interior could call directly Mr Schulz or his chief of staff to obtain information or the correct number of the collaborator who manages this file. In addition, it is Yezidis, minorities in Iraq who are threatened, who are in danger. It is so well known that your government is fighting against Daesh with fighter planes (six today) to protect these people! There must be a positive a priori for visa applications from individuals who come to testify to situations that other members of government are also managing. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that our country must have a proactive view of this issue by acting without prejudice to a possible asylum application. Even if they did, Secretary of State, it would be normal for them to be granted!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clarification. In fact, everything has taken place in a two-week period, from passing on the information that a European conference would take place until it cannot deliver the visas. I cannot fully follow Mr Hellings' view that the reply of the Secretary of State would be incomplete, because his initiatives would be insufficient. Mr Hellings, if the request, which was submitted very shortly before the conference, had immediately contained the right information, there would have been no problem at all and you might not even have known about the conference. In that case, the visas would have been delivered without delay, just because, as you yourself say, this happens regularly. Many people are coming to European conferences from visa-free countries. In fact, I can only be pleased that the principle of caution is applied in this case, even if it is in the context of a European conference. I therefore welcome the clarification. I think the folds are smoothed. I believe that the President of the European Parliament has learned his lesson and will be more complete in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u36	Mr President, allow me to add the following briefly. However, there was a person in the group holding a diplomatic passport for whom the granting of a visa was not a problem. This person obtained a visa and could attend the testimony planned in the European Parliament but preferred not to make the trip. This to be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u37	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is currently meeting in another committee, perhaps she will come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u38	Mr President, please excuse my absence. I was also coming here and next time I'll announce that. Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the fee measure you announced. Those who apply for a residence permit in our country have recently had to pay a fee. For an application for family reunification and a stay as a student, this amount is 160 euros per person, for migrant workers and regularisations it would be 215 euros per person. At first there was talk that this would also apply to scholarship students, but I have read a statement from you which shows that this would have changed, so I would like to explain it a little more. It is difficult to deny that this measure has caused a wave of protests from various deans, the Rector of the KU Leuven and VLIR-UOS, the University Partnership for Development Cooperation. All these people and organisations have made quite convincing arguments. They pointed out the financial threshold. For many people, especially from non-EU Member States or developing countries, 160 euros is a lot of money. Moreover, the measure could harm our country because it reflects a narrow vision of migration and certainly international mobility. The fact that the measure would be used to finance a strict policy of expulsion has been misplaced by many. We are concerned that this measure will soon cross the study plans of quite a few students from third world countries and fear that, if it continues, only the richer students in Belgium will be able to study. Mr Secretary of State, first of all, what do you intend to achieve with this measure? How much money do you want to raise? Secondly, how do you relate this to your vision of active migration? Thirdly, are you prepared to review the measure at least for students from developing countries in the light of these arguments? Fourthly, are you prepared to reduce the measure and make an exception for all students, as for some other groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have adapted my question to what I have read in the press in the meantime. It is complementary to Mr De Vriendt's question. I read that you intend to amend the royal decision on the EUR 160 foreign tax introduced in March. At least that's what VLIR-UOS says. I am very pleased about this, but I would like to hear whether the news of VLIR-UOS is correct in the press. Will it be adapted for international scholarship students? Why this new attitude? What's the timing? Is this measure extended to all foreign students? Why is that? Why is that? A fee of 160 euros is a lot of money. For a lot of students, that's a month's pay. The European Court of Human Rights has previously stated that a fee should not exceed the applicant's financial capacity. It is clear that this tax does so in certain cases. How does the fee in administrative simplification and the announcement of study cards with automatic right of residence work?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u40	First of all, it's not a foreign tax: it's about fees. I find foreign tax a horrible word. So it's not, and I won't use it either. Everyone is free to use the words they want. In the preparation of these measures, an estimate of 9.2 million euros was made from the total fee, of which 1.5 million euros as a fee for student residence applications, based on the 2013 figures. The regions have the power to issue work permits to foreign workers and to issue professional cards to foreign self-employed persons. Belgium will work at European level, inter alia, for a framework that fully exploits the potential of economic migration. Since economic migration was transferred to the Länder under the sixth state reform, the government is no longer exclusively competent in this area. It will do the necessary in consultation with the Länder. Among other things, the conversion of the permis unique had to be done for years. We're working on it. In cases where the federal government pays the student's fee, an adjustment of the KB is possible to avoid one federal government paying to another. It doesn't make much sense to have a pocket-of-pants operation. There are consultations on this matter with the Minister for Development Cooperation. However, this is not a general exemption from students. The planned amount of EUR 160 is not such that only rich students would still be able to study in Belgium, as is wrongly raised. The various, often much higher amounts in our neighbouring countries also indicate that EUR 160 is not unreasonablely high. This was confirmed by both the Council of State in its opinion and the Finance Inspector. The legal procedure was completed. This was discussed on 19 December in plenary session and then went to the Council of State. The Royal Decree laying down the amounts and the process of collection was also submitted to the Council of State. Again, there were no comments on international rules of law cited here by some. This has all been tested legally. Certain organisations are bringing proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and that is their right. We will see what the Constitutional Court thinks of that. I'm pretty comfortable with it, as usual. At the moment, I do not envisage a drastic change as a total exemption from all students. I would like to remind you once again that such amounts are requested in almost all EU Member States. Very often they're a lot higher. I have a list of a number of such countries with me. I can tell you that further discussions will also be held on this subject. We will adapt the royal decision for the trade fairs related to development cooperation, because I do not think that a cardigan-pockack operation would be very useful in this respect. However, a sudden exemption for all students for payment for something that has just been voted on and which has just been introduced, I have never promised. A quote was also read with the questions, but I don't know if it's really a literal quote from me. I read something about this in Veto, but I can't remember having Veto on the phone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You say that the Royal Decree will be amended by providing for an exception for the grants granted to Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u42	That is what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u43	You are discussing this, but it is your intention to exempt the students for grants linked to development cooperation? If I am not mistaken, it is not even about all the scholarship students, because you are talking about a very specific part, namely the grants awarded in the framework of development cooperation. This certainly does not cover all students who are financially vulnerable and who may be eligible for other grants. In this sense, this adjustment is far from sufficient. In any case, I do not understand why this threshold is being set for students. What's the ratio of that? Apparently, this is a purely financial measure, because you have not really put forward any other arguments. Why should we not encourage the international mobility of students and thus create as few financial thresholds as possible in our country? I believe that globalisation, the globalised knowledge society, will also benefit our country. We need expertise, Brains. Actually, you should get an exemption, at least for all students. It is quite disappointing that you do not want to comment on that suggestion. And course the route, after the previous debate I got an email from someone who talks about a Brazilian student who will not only have to pay that fee fee, but also has to pay costs at the consulate in Sao Paulo. It is about EUR 300. That's another thing. In addition, other documents are required, such as medical certificates. So it's not about 160 euros, it's about a lot more money.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u44	Mr President, I would also like to call on the Secretary of State to exempt at least all scholarship students, whatever the grant, from these registration fees. This sends out a signal as a small country that it must have contacts with the outside world, including in the long term, in the social, economic and cultural fields. That signal would be respectable, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u45	Mr President, first of all, nothing has yet been definitively decided. The meeting's still going on. Let's get that straight. Secondly, we are talking about EUR 160. You say that it keeps students away, but do not forget that more than 80% of all international brains go to Anglo-Saxon universities, where the average enrolment is several times higher than that of reputable institutions on the continent, as we have a few in our country. The prize story is only a small element that plays a part in whether or not to register at a certain university.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u46	Let the Anglo-Saxon countries be no example to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u47	In the field of active migration, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u48	Certainly not in the area of democratization of education. In any case, the challenge for Belgium in terms of international mobility of knowledge is greater than for the Anglo-Saxon countries. We need as few thresholds as possible to attract knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u49	From my experience as OCMW chairman, I know how much 160 euros can be for someone. I notice that more and more thresholds, including financial ones, are being raised in general for young people who want to make a dream come true. It is not because one comes from a poor family that one has no potential. Belgium should distinguish itself precisely in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u50	Mrs Lanjri has not yet returned to her question No. 3604. Debates of the European Parliament 3628 by Mrs Smeyers has already been answered in the combined question. Questions Nos 3645, 3646, 3647 and 3648 by Mrs Gabriels have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, the constraints of the agenda mean that the text of my inquiry, as I tabled it, is already widely debated, but the subject is still very topical. The events that you developed when you were last present in committee, your statements and those of your European colleagues or those of Mr Juncker, the President of the Commission, are likely to fuel the debate. This is particularly the case with regard to the important issue of European solidarity. Indeed, it was on this stone that the meeting ended, as you put it in committee. It seems to me particularly difficult to hear and to admit that the weight, or even guilt, of the management of the migratory flow, is presented as based first and foremost on the countries that their geographical situation predisposes to be the first step in a long journey from areas that you yourself have admitted you would flee them if you had had the misfortune to see the light of day. The question at this stage is not so much what are the responsibilities of everyone in the current situation, but what is the urgency. The urgent need is to find a just, humane response to the need for solidarity mentioned above. This is not just the question of migratory flows, but, ultimately, the question of the meaning that we want to give Europe in a world where practical purpose takes precedence over great ideals. Mr Crusnière will certainly speak at a forthcoming sitting. It is clear that this issue cannot be dealt with solely at the level of migration flows policy. We must have a comprehensive approach in order to consolidate the democratic regimes in place and to participate in the economic development of these States through cooperation and to ensure a legal and regular migration route. It is also the absence of these channels that drives people into disarray. In this context, the question of the availability of reception places which Belgium is prepared to propose arises. I believe that the members of this committee have already had the opportunity to say that, in the current situation, even the effort made by our government is a drop of water in relation to needs. The High Commissioner for Refugees speaks of 20,000 places a year in the Union to meet the most urgent needs, not all requests. So we must not bear the full weight of it, but take our fair share. Are these 500 seats up to our fair share? The question remains. You have referred extensively to the fight against illegal immigration channels. As a first step, you mentioned steps to be taken at the level of the Security Council to take action against the ships of those who operate these lines. I can only stress how imperative a mandate from this body seems to us for such action. Perhaps, could you say more about the status of this issue today? I repeat that the answer must result in real help to people. Indeed, if the only answer – as I understood it in the mouth of some Europeans – is to sink ships, trawlers, it is to add to the distress of people. Those who take the risk of climbing on these trawlers to reach the northern shores of the Mediterranean, take risks of life. It is because there is a human distress due to poverty, wars in these countries, that people sometimes take such great risks. As far as Frontex is concerned, in view of the strengthening of the Agency's resources and tasks, it is clear to us that an important strengthening of democratic control over these missions must also be brought to the agenda with some urgency. We would be happy to hear more about the practical proposals that you are prepared to make in this area. That's what's going on, Mr. Franken. Formally, I will rest a few questions that you have not answered. I am thinking in particular of the search for a legal and effective European migration policy that would divert candidates from illegal channels and the forms of active solidarity to be set up with Italy and Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u52	Mr Kir, we had an in-depth debate last week, but I am still at the disposal of the House to answer questions or questions. On 16 and 17 April, a meeting was held between the Ministers for European Affairs of Italy, Germany, France and Slovakia. This meeting was long planned and focused on the challenges for Europe's future. Between 10 and 17 April, a sudden increase in the number of refugee boats was recorded: 13,500 migrants were rescued during this period. It was thus decided to conclude the summit with a joint declaration on the immigration crisis in the Mediterranean. It goes without saying that these conclusions are signed only by the countries represented at this conference. If the honourable Member wishes to know why Belgium has not countersigned this statement, I invite him to contact the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to know why Belgium has not been invited to this mini-summit. At the beginning of the Triton mission, a monthly budget of approximately €3 million had been foreseen. At the European summit on 23 April, it was decided to triple it, so that the Triton mission has a monthly budget of EUR 9 million. The Triton mission had been placed under Italian command from the outset. That will not change. Frontex missions are built around the support of one or more member states. In this case, the Triton mission is supported by the Italian authorities. Details of the extension of the Triton mission must be drawn up in consultation with the Italian authorities. These will probably send Frontex a proposal on the technical and operational aspects of the extension of the Triton mission in the coming weeks. Unless I'm wrong, a management board for the Triton mission will take place on May 20th. We will have to decide on operations around Lampedusa, Sicily and Malta. Of course, border protection is an essential task for every Frontex mission. This does not mean that there is no need to consider a rescue mission. From the start of the Triton mission, a "Search and Rescue" component was clearly included in the mandate. As Mr Tusk said, "what it comes to rescue people, there are no operational borders." It's not because the operational area around Lampedusa is going to grow from 30 to 45 miles that we're not going to exceed it any more if the alarm bell rings. We'll rescue if necessary; it's obvious. In 2013, the European Union adopted a regulation laying down the responsibilities of search and rescue in the framework of common Frontex operations. Belgium played a key role in the negotiations and ensured that the obligation to search and rescue as well as the definition of a safe place of evacuation was included in EU legislation for the first time in history. So it's obviously wrong to say that Triton doesn't take on rescue operations. Rescue operations are an integral part of Triton's mission. I have my doubts about the fact that it is enough to open more legal channels to the EU to outsmart smugglers. I am thinking, for example, of the idea of processing asylum applications in North Africa and then transferring the recognised refugees to the EU. Apart from practical questions about such a proposal and the risks to the region, what do you think will happen to the candidate refugees who do not get asylum status? They have traveled thousands of miles and often paid smugglers to get into Libya at all. Do you really think they'll return to the country of origin? No, they too will cart the crossing by boat. Furthermore, you must also take into account the different smuggling practices. The vast majority of the victims are people from Sub-Saharan Africa. They pay less to smugglers than Syrians, but on the other hand they usually get even worse quality. The most dangerous boats in the most dangerous conditions are usually boats with refugees from Sub-Saharan Africa. Let it be this group which consists of many economic refugees who are not eligible for refugee status under the Geneva Convention. Then I ask why more legal migration channels from North Africa would be the solution for the victims in the Mediterranean? How can that be a solution for the large number of economic refugees who want to cross the border from Libya? Does this mean that we should not make any additional efforts? Of course not. For example, we will and can make a stronger commitment to resettlement. However, we must also be honest, the people who come to Belgium through resettlement are the most vulnerable, in the sense that they are single parents, single mothers, persons with medical conditions and so on. They are people who are not even able to venture the crossing by boat. They're not the boat refugees. There is no doubt that Italy and Greece are facing very strong border pressure. However, this does not mean that these two countries have the greatest migratory pressure. Look, for example, at the asylum figures. In 2014, 55 Syrians applied for asylum in Italy. During the same period, 2,700 Syrians applied for asylum in Belgium. Italy acts primarily as a transit country. It is the countries of Western Europe that have to process the largest number of asylum applications. Another example is the number of asylum applications related to the number of inhabitants. On this basis, Belgium receives twice as many asylum seekers as Italy. Italy is naturally facing a difficult situation. However, consider all aspects as well. Thus, it is clear that Belgium is already making a lot of efforts. The participation of two federal police personnel in the Triton mission was already scheduled for 2015. We will continue this commitment. The Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, has announced that additional persons may be made available if Frontex so requests. These people will be involved as "debriefer." They'll take interviews with migrants coming in. Information will be used to identify trafficking networks. Finally, Mr Kir, with regard to your questions on the mandate of the United Nations to destroy the boats of traffickers on the Libyan coast, a meeting of the United Nations Security Council was held last night. Mrs Mogherini was present, as were all the great European diplomats. The discussion was constructive. However, there has been no vote and the resolution has not yet passed. High-level diplomatic contacts are under way. I'm not a pessimist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u53	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I agree with you on the fight against smugglers, traffickers and parallel migration. No one can, in fact, endorse this type of approach. Of course, every effort must be made to put them out of play and neutralize them completely. However, as I said earlier, a comprehensive approach is needed in this case. This problem can only be considered from the point of view of immigration. The Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr. Alexander De Croo, and you, in my view, should join forces to have bilateral approaches to Africa and countries that are in great difficulty. I am thinking here of the difficulties associated with a certain economic misery which has arisen in recent years, but also of the difficulties resulting from a war situation. We must not neglect the fact that people leave their country because they flee death, humanly tragic situations. It would therefore be useful to consider this aspect of the matter. Indeed, we must understand those who, at some point, take the risk of leaving their country. It is therefore not just a question of looking at the problem of boats or trawlers sailing in the Mediterranean, we must go to the roots of evil. In this regard, it would be desirable to work with Europe to ensure that countries in difficulty are supported with a view to a democratic transition and the stabilisation of the regime in place. It would also be desirable to work with economic cooperation to improve the situation in those countries. In discussions with the latter, this type of approach is important. On this occasion, we must not simply mention the problems we are facing. I therefore invite you to enter into a dialogue with your colleagues at both government and European level. Finally, as you know, a motion will be tabled at the conclusion of this inquiry. Here I call on you directly to take the necessary steps to relax and strengthen the effectiveness of the channels of legal immigration. You have already done so partly by explaining that you were going to take things a little more in hand, as part of your skills. I encourage you, for my part, to go in that direction. Indeed, increased, known and legal immigration is a means of combating trafficking in human beings, parallel channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u54	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, recommends to the Government - to defend the principle of a significant and indispensable increase in the number of reception places within the European Union, with a view to the number of 20,000 places proposed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In this context, it also recommends setting Belgium as an example, by increasing without delay the number of places proposed, beyond the 500 places envisaged - which already would not allow Belgium to participate, up to its means, in the common effort expected; - to depart from a stigmatizing discourse towards the Greek or Italian authorities in the context of their front-line management of migratory flows, to the benefit of a policy of the outstretched hand and cooperation, was it bilateral, in this field of competence; - take the necessary measures to ease and improve the efficiency of legal immigration routes in order to divert applicants from illegal immigration channels, which not only resemble human trafficking but also contribute to the destabilization of transit countries; - take the necessary initiatives at European level to strengthen democratic control over the Frontex agency and to respect, within the framework of its tasks, the European Convention on Human Rights and international humanitarian law; - to ensure that the fight against illegal migration channels does not call into question the free movement within the European Union and, in particular, fall back within the Schengen area; - to maintain, in the context of the fight against smugglers, the requirement of an imperative mandate of the United Nations Security Council for any operation involving inter alia entering Libyan territorial waters. In the same context, humanitarian efforts and assistance for the re-establishment of a democratic rule of law in Libya should be stepped up. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Emir Kir and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, recommends the government - to defend the principle of a substantial and necessary increase in the number of places of reception in the European Union and, in so doing, to set out the objective of 20 000 places proposed by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In this context, it also recommends that Belgium should serve as an example by immediately increasing the number of reception places on top of the 500 planned. Otherwise, Belgium would not be able to participate in the expected joint effort in terms of capacity; - to distance itself from a stigmatising discourse with regard to the first-line reception of migrants by the Greek and Italian authorities and to give preference to bilateral cooperation and a policy of cooperation if necessary; - take the necessary measures to facilitate and increase the efficiency of legal migration channels in order to prevent the new candidates from turning to the illegal migration networks, which are committed not only to trafficking in human beings but also to destabilising transit countries; - to take the necessary initiatives at European level to strengthen democratic control of Frontex and to ensure that, within its missions, the Agency complies with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law; - ensure that the fight against illegal migration networks does not lead either to an erosion of free movement in the EU or, in particular, to a reduction in the Schengen process; - in the context of the fight against smugglers of human beings, continue to demand that the UN Security Council give an imperative mandate for each operation, in particular in Libyan territorial waters. At the same time, humanitarian efforts and support for the restoration of the democratic rule of law in Libya should be stepped up. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u55	Minister, your decisions are too quick. This is in essence the message I have given you with this question. I would like to ask you today about the expulsion of an asylum-seeker without trial. The press on Monday, 13 April, announces the expulsion by the Foreigners' Office of a 59-year-old Albanian asylum-seeker who was due to appear before the courts. Indeed, on 13 October 2014, the latter had struck a 54-year-old lady in Antwerp by scooter while travelling to her work place by bicycle. The victim had fallen heavily and suffered brain damage. Unfortunately, she had died 11 days later in the hospital. The defendant had fled without assisting the victim, as he was not in a regular situation according to his lawyers. Nevertheless, he went to the police at the end of December 2014 and was detained before being released on bail. At that time, the board had asked him to find a fixed address. In the meantime, the alleged perpetrator has therefore been expelled. "The Antwerp prosecutor's office has indicated that the suspect could be prosecuted and sentenced by default," the newspapers note. On the one hand, this poses a problem for the victim's family who is not entitled to a proper trial against the alleged perpetrator; on the other hand, it presents obvious difficulties in terms of the rights of the defence. Finally, in the event of a conviction, how can we ensure that the sentence is applied and that the accused is adequately cared for? Are you considering a return to Belgian territory so that the penalty is meted out? However, it seems that Albania does not extradite its nationals, so this extradition is unlikely, causing all the more pain to the victim's family who will feel that justice has not been done. Minister, what happened in this case? Was there any miscommunication between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Foreign Office in this case, as one expert points out? The promptness, not to say the haste, with which the present government extradites is not likely to have serious consequences? How, under these conditions, can justice be fully enforced and punishment properly enforced?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u56	Mr Kir, the Foreign Office was not informed by the court that legal proceedings were still being instituted against the person concerned. There is a need for a policy to remove persons who have served their sentences, have been given early release or have not been brought to justice, even though they have been unlawfully released. These illegal residents are indeed likely to commit other reprehensible acts. I would like to remind you that, in this case, this gentleman has already been convicted by default. He did not appear at the hearing and yet he was not removed by the Office of Foreigners. If necessary, the person concerned may request the lifting of his entry ban in order to be able to appear before the court. He may also be sentenced by default and object if he returns to Belgium. The removal of the person concerned in no way impedes the normal course of justice. A working group exists between my department and that of Mr Geens. We had a discussion on the exchange of information last Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, you are therefore explaining to us that there has been a lack of information exchange between the judiciary and the Foreign Office. At no time did this person inform the Foreign Office that he or she was at the heart of a dispute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u58	No. Normally, justice warns my administration that there is ongoing judicial proceedings against the persons concerned. This case is exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u59	Mr President, Secretary of State, Fedasil's Department of Study and Policy developed a policy framework for volunteering in November 2014. The definition of a policy is important because it creates clarity. This clarity is necessary for everyone: for the volunteers themselves, but also for the professionals, the customers or users of volunteering, Fedasil and the reception partners. A uniform and, above all, clear voluntary policy provides a basis for good cooperation for both the volunteers and the staff of the reception network. Based on a literature study on the feedback on Pharos' pilot project in the Netherlands and on the workshop on volunteering held on 24 October 2014 with staff from the Red Cross Flanders, the French-speaking Red Cross, Volunteering Flanders and the Operational Services Directorate and the Study and Policy Department of Fedasil, a number of guidelines were proposed. Mr Secretary of State, how are you involved in this policy framework? How do you view the participation of residents in the reception centres and volunteering? In what way do you want to contribute to the self-reliance of the residents of the shelters? What initiatives and possible additional initiatives would you like to take in connection with volunteering in the reception centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, I am convinced that offering the opportunity to be meaningful can strengthen the self-esteem of asylum seekers, it also reduces stress and thereby positively affects the health of residents. From a preventive point of view alone, this is very important. At the same time, we expect the self-reliance of the inhabitants to be promoted and to create space for them to think more specifically about the further development of their future. This could increase the effectiveness of the policy. One goes on integration after admission or leaves after rejection. In addition, increasing personal well-being will also improve the quality of life in reception structures. After all, people who are well in their skin seek less conflict with each other. Finally, meaningful participation of asylum seekers in the neighbourhood where they are received can have a positive impact on the often one-sided image of asylum seekers in our society. However, asylum seekers may encounter many obstacles to volunteering. For example, there are personal circumstances, such as limited contact with the outside world, fear of racism and prejudice, lack of self-confidence, cultural perceptions related to volunteering, etc. The voluntary organisations themselves can also create unintended barriers in the form of complex application forms, requirements of experience or language knowledge, or they do not know how to engage the specific target group of asylum seekers in their operation. Finally, reception facilities may also unintentionally complicate access to volunteering. For example, people are not aware of the offer in the area, or volunteer work is not facilitated or there is no childcare or lunch packages are not offered. The instruction of 6 March in Fedasil on access to volunteer work for asylum seekers included that the reception structure should inform residents about the right to volunteer work and encourage them to do so. The reception structure should also provide information on the possibility of volunteering in the neighbourhood and the rights and obligations associated with it. The latter can do the reception structure itself or one can orient the resident to organisations specializing in volunteering. It is also explicitly stated that the volunteering resident retains all his rights within the reception structure. It is intended that not only the reception structures, but also the Flemish, Brussels and provincial support points volunteering and the Plate-form francophone du Volontariat et des centres du volontariat should be informed and sensitised with regard to volunteering for asylum seekers. The study and policy department of Fedasil has been commissioned to do this. In addition, the project of the Dutch-speaking Women's Council, which supported Fedasil from 2012 to 2104 through the European Refugee Fund, will be anchored in women's encounters, empowering work with female asylum seekers in collective care. Together with the employees of 17 Flemish and Brussels reception centres, the Women's Council has strengthened or helped to start one with the help of volunteers from its member organisations such as Femma and the World Women's Federation. The end result of the project is a toolkit with good practices and success factors to get started with female asylum seekers in collective care. The toolkit, both in Dutch and French, contains examples of methods, tools, actions and activities intended to support employees, local volunteers and members of women's organisations who want to cooperate with a reception centre in their environment. It is intended that reception centres throughout Belgium will start working on this, and that the support points for volunteering and the centres du volontariat will be informed about this. It is also necessary to consider how to extend the toolkit to the individual reception and to other categories of residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that there has recently been an instruction from Fedasil, also in connection with the study, to lower the threshold for volunteering. That's good. I believe that it was also necessary for that to happen. I also mean the local authorities, the voluntary organisations or the organisations working with volunteers, who are informed about the possibilities for asylum seekers to volunteer. It may be argued that Fedasil should contact the municipal administration or the OCMW and the associations in order to indicate the possibilities in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I questioned you on the subject a while ago, but I have a few more questions. Last time, you replied that you still had to consult with Minister Reynders. Has this conversation with Minister Reynders taken place in order to resolve the existing problems of short-stay visas for family visits? What measures will you take? You also announced that 26 049 visas were issued in 2014, while 11 514 applications were refused. From which countries does the largest number of short-stay visa applications come for family reasons? What is the state of play in the implementation of the measures you will take? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u63	Mrs Lanjri, as far as the figures are concerned, we do not keep figures per motive. 80 % will also be handled by the Foreign Office at visa posts abroad and only 20% will reach us. That 20% will only reach us if there are questions or uncertainties, or if there is a migratory risk. I therefore believe that you are putting the question best to the Foreign Minister, Mrs Lanjri. I've had a first meeting with Minister Reynders on all kinds of matters. The issue of visas was briefly raised, but this still needs to be followed up. By the way, there's gonna be a new maintenance. So we have certainly not forgotten the problem. As far as the timing of the measures is concerned, I hope to be able to implement them before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u64	Then perhaps I will ask you again for a state of affairs just before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, the protection of victims of intra-family violence is included in the law on family reunification. There are still some refinements that can be applied to that law and that is what we are working on. From this Parliament we will take further initiatives. Mr Secretary of State, how many applications for protection under that legislation have been submitted since the addition, i.e. since the adoption of the new law on family reunification? In how many cases was protection to withdraw the right of residence granted effectively? In how many cases has the right of residence been withdrawn, even if the person was originally protected? If the protection was not granted, what are the main reasons for a refusal? Is it a lack of evidence, insufficient resources or other reasons? Finally, I note that in practice, very often, not all the services concerned are aware of the possibilities offered by the law, and that is true even for the police. To what extent have the police authorities been informed about the protection measure so that they can immediately refer victims and point to the protection they can receive if they complain about intra-family violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State has until 12:00. He's supposed to leave at noon. We cannot complete the whole agenda today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u67	Mrs Lanjri, you are asking for figures, but there are no exact figures available. The administration does not keep separate figures. However, I can tell you that the Foreign Affairs Office receives requests, but they are generally poorly upholstered, for example there is a lack of a medical certificate, a report or the persons do not show that they meet the conditions laid down by law in terms of the financial situation. To sum up, I can say that few applications have led to a positive decision. The Department of Foreign Affairs is involved in the initial training of police schools. In addition, additional training is provided to police officers throughout the country. The protection measures for victims of intra-family violence are always explained in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, in order to evaluate our policy, it is important to collect statistics on this. I understand that this did not happen in the past, since that form of protection did not yet exist. In the previous legislature, we introduced protection for victims. It is important to monitor and monitor this well, to know whether many people are involved and what can be improved. I hope that you will be able to ask the DVZ to follow up on this issue so that we can adjust policy in the future where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament 3927 by Mrs Monica De Coninck has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 3943 by Mrs Schepmans was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u70	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on the border of three municipalities, Houthulst, Staden and Langemark-Poelkapelle, lies the hamlet of Vijfwege, which used to be a barracks of the army and has been an asylum centre since January 2010. A number of necessary renovation works have been carried out in the building. According to former Secretary of State De Block, a plan was drawn up for works to be carried out until May 2015. Work also had to be done, and a new planning would be drawn up for this. In addition, the former Secretary of State, Ms De Block, informed that the number of reception places in the last 90s at the start-up in 2010 went to 150 in 2011, 200 in 2012 and 225 in 2014. The capacity utilisation rate was then 73 %, with an employment rate of 35 full-time equivalents. I received a number of questions from people who work or are connected to the center, as well as from people who are involved in the municipal administration. Firstly, can you tell and explain the new planning for the work at the asylum centre needed to maintain the buildings further? Secondly, what is the capacity utilisation rate at the Langemark-Poelkapelle asylum centre at the moment? How many full-time equivalents are there at the moment? What are your plans for the future with the centre in Langemark-Poelkapelle, the only centre in West and East Flanders? There are, of course, questions about this in the context of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u71	Mr President, the works in block D have been completed. The block has been in use since 1 March 2015. The works in block C are in preparation and will be carried out in 2016. In parallel there will also be works in block A and block B. This work will be completed by 1 January 2017. The current capacity utilisation rate is 68.4 %. The centre currently has 33.3 full-time equivalents. So there are more employees at work. The master plan for the Langemark-Poelkapelle reception centre determines a capacity of 245 persons after the completion of the works on 1 January 2017. So there is no phasing out planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply, which was short and strong. The essence is that a number of staff expected a phasing-out. In the past there was also some restraint from the neighborhood, like wherever there is a shelter. However, I hear from a lot of people that there are little or no more problems there at the moment. It is certainly a good thing that the investment that has been made in the centre can also be profitable in the longer term, for which I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u73	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4001 by Mrs Caprasse, who is not present and has not notified. Subject to Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure, her question shall be considered withdrawn. Questions Nos 4036 and 4167 by Mrs Jadin are postponed to her question. Taking into account the agenda of the Secretary of State, we have just the time for one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of March, Mr Roosemont, the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs, sued politicians' involvement in asylum applications. It appeared, for example, that on a regular basis politicians contacted the officials of the Foreign Office in order to put in a good word for certain persons who had made an application. You know this from the past: we, Members of Parliament, regularly receive such questions from citizens. The question is how politicians deal with this. It even went so far in certain cases that officials were called on their private cell phone by politicians and MPs. Of course, these interventions are contrary to the deontological code which applies to Parliaments. Trying to influence or accelerate a particular procedure so it is literally stated in the code "Join" is contrary to the basic principle of the separation of powers and is explicitly prohibited. When the facts came to light, I asked the Prime Minister about this at a plenary session at the end of March. In his reply, he also condemned these practices and spoke of a form of clientelism and practices which are more of an old political culture and are therefore unacceptable today. The item would also be placed on the agenda of the next Consultation Committee. Mr Secretary of State, we have been more than a month since these facts or practices came to light. In the meantime, is there any evolution in the number of letters or calls from politicians to, in your case, the Foreign Office? I believe that this can already be a sample of practices in other administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u75	Mrs Smeyers, the statement by the Director-General of the Foreign Affairs Office concerned not only the intervention of politicians in the asylum applications but, more generally, in the light of all the procedures managed by the DVZ. I would like to note that the Director-General of the DVZ has not indicated that politicians are calling on the private cell phone of agents of the service, but that some, in the context of an intervention in an individual file, should be understood to call their mobile phone, including mobile phones. As regards your question as to whether the DVZ has received any letters or phones from politicians since the statement, the number of interventions in individual files has declined very significantly. However, the interventions still exist. Sometimes a mayor sends a letter. Those interventions shall be added to the administrative file of the person concerned, without the intervention giving rise to priority treatment in relation to the other applications. That's the way it's supposed to be. Due to the reduction in the number of interventions at the DVZ, the administration can book a significant time savings that can be invested in the treatment of the application of any person starting a residence procedure. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic167x.u76	The usefulness of parliamentary questions has been proven. I am satisfied with your answer, Mr Secretary of State. Let this question be an appeal to all politicians of any level. The answer is clear. Even if you send letters and make phone calls, the files are treated like all the other files. That's just normal. Otherwise we will have the right of the strongest or the longest arm. That belongs to the past, I hope.
