ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 1766 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 1788 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 1796 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 1799 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 1811 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 1815 by Mr Vanvelthoven has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 1827 by Mr Luykx and 2152 by Mr Dallemagne have just been dealt with in the debriefing. Those questions are therefore withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Scourneau 1838 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u2	Minister, the fairness tax is very complex and very difficult to explain to foreign multinationals. It is not explained abroad that if a foreign company pays a dividend, the Belgian institution must pay a fairness tax. It is therefore not immediately a measure by which the Belgian government will convince foreigners to invest in our country. The measure was strongly criticised from its introduction. I remember very well its discussion in committee. At that time, 50 amendments were tabled to the law on various provisions. One can conclude from this that not everyone from the then majority was equally convinced of this measure. As expected, on 28 January last the Constitutional Court referred a number of questions to the European Court of Justice on the compatibility of the fairness tax with the freedom of establishment and the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. Following the condemnation by the European Court of Justice of the tax on the conversion of securities to bearer, which we had also announced would be a problem, the government threatened to face additional budgetary expenditure a second time in a short time. Minister, your predecessor estimated the revenue from the fairness tax for 2014 at EUR 215 million, of which EUR 50 million would go to SMEs as a reduction of charges. I would like to hear from you how much the fairness tax for the 2014 tax year has been paid and what part of it has actually been spent on the aforementioned reduction? How many companies or permanent establishments owed the tax? What is the expected return for the 2015 attack year? More specifically, what will the government do? Will it await the Court of Justice's ruling? Or will it take initiatives on fairness tax before? Can the government frame the tax in its tax shift policy and its commitment to simplify taxation, in particular corporate tax? I would like to refer to the federal government agreement, point 4.1.1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u3	At present, the accounts or collections, if you will, are still in full swing for the 2014 attack year. Only in July or August will the representative figures be available on the real yield of the fairness tax for 2014. The number of companies which have so far been returned does not yet allow a significant extrapolation to figures for the whole year. The revenue for the 2015 tax year is for the time being estimated at a similar level as the revenue for the 2014 tax year, figures you have just quoted. Only when representative results are known for the 2014 assessment year will a thorough analysis of those figures be made and, if necessary, the estimates will be revised. The government is indeed awaiting the judgment of the Court of Justice. The government will continue to intervene in the current proceedings, namely before the European Court of Justice on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and before the Constitutional Court on the actions for annulment. Depending on the outcome of the procedures, the government may take new measures in the matter. In the context of tax shift and tax simplification, which should go hand in hand with this, the government will evaluate all tax provisions. At the moment, however, it is premature to comment on this at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will certainly come back to my question as soon as the real figures are known. I am very interested in the Court of Justice's ruling. Members of the then majority and myself have pointed out in the past that the tax might not be accepted. We'll wait for the verdict. I hope that the very complex fairness tax, if it goes beyond the Court of Justice, will be thoroughly reviewed with a view to simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u5	Mr President, Minister, every year since the 2002 tax reform, the number of natural persons who are required to recover money from the tax authorities is increasing. In an earlier communication, you have stated the intention that people should be able to recover the too much withheld corporate tax more quickly. Unless the rights of the Treasury are compromised, a payment period of two months has been applied for years, both when taxable persons are entitled to a refund and when they have to pay in addition. Anyone who needs to get taxes back must wait two months. In reality, this is on average two and a half months because it is counted from sending the letter until the end of the second month after dispatch. An additional element, although I do not know whether we should take this into account 100%, is that in a period of two months, certainly for those who have to pay, the payment is sometimes forgotten. This could create additional problems, and in that respect I think it would be better to shorten the deadline. Both for taxable persons entitled to a refund and for active recovery of the additional payments, it would be appropriate to shorten the time limit. For the budget, this seems to me to be a neutral operation. Indeed, according to the ESA standards, the date of collection and the ELD interest rate varies between one month and around 0 %, so that the financing costs are negligible. Mr President, first of all, is there a historical reason for fixing a payment period of two months in income taxes? If so, what is the reason? Secondly, do you share my analysis that, given current interest rates, a reduction in the payment period to one month does not have an impact on the budget according to ESA standards and that the financing costs are negligible? Thirdly, I have two suggestions within the current software. A first suggestion is that the payment period is brought forward to the end of the month following the date of dispatch of the deposit note, while maintaining the current method of calculating the negligence interest. A second suggestion is that the payment period is shortened to an effective period of one month after the date of dispatch of the bill, after which the interests begin to run.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u6	Mr President, Mr Van de Velde, the law of 28 March 1955 made the period of payment of taxes not due at source uniform, by bringing them to two months. This was reflected in the simplification of the calculation of the increased negligence in the event of an objection and the aim was to speed up recovery. Shortening the payment deadline would certainly have a budgetary cost. The acceleration will, of course, allow the government to collect the bills more quickly with a sum to be paid, but also to pay the refunds more quickly. Since there are more refunds than there is to be paid, it goes without saying that the federal government will spend a lot more, at least in the year of such a reduction. The year after that, of course, the budget comes at cruising speed again. Since there is little room for manoeuvre in the budget, any increase in expenditure must be compensated elsewhere, which is not obvious. The data processing related to the tax bill is carried out in a system for collection, comptability and prosecution, abbreviated ICPC. Reducing the payment period on personal taxation has a major impact on data processing. Both variants specified by you substantially alter the interest calculation, both for the determination of the negligence interests to be paid by the citizen and for the determination of moratorium residues, which may be payable by the administration where appropriate. These new methods of determining the balance in turn affect all other aspects of a tax file, such as the administrative notices, the comparison of debts, the tax balance sheet, the administrative objection and the granting to other administrations. The necessary computer adjustments to the computerized system are therefore truly far-reaching. In conclusion, I have great sympathy with the suggestions contained in your question. However, I am obliged to understand the budgetary situation and the impact on data processing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u7	Minister, you are very humble, but I would like to stress this point. The budgetary impact quoted is not on an ESA basis but on a cash basis. To the current interest this is almost zero. I can understand the practical side of the matter, because we are dealing here with a technical dossier. In any case, I would ask you to keep an eye on this. I will also make a number of proposals in this respect. I will also come back later on to the moratorium residues, which are actually out of proportion at the moment. In any case, I would urge you to continue this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u8	Mr. Deseyn should be on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u9	Mr President, you are incredibly hard on the colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u10	I'm a Christian Democrat, which doesn't mean I have a heart. Het hart, the return of the heart, is voor de socialisten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u11	I would like to wait until my colleague is here, out of socialist solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u12	No, ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u13	Mr Minister, on 27 January 2015, this committee had the opportunity to hold a discussion with the chairman of the ruling committee. It was then that the President and our group did not agree on two points. On the one hand, it concerns the interpretation of the publication obligation and, on the other hand, the application of Article 22. The President of the ruling service stated that Article 22 cannot have an effect because there are no more jurisdictions under the provision of this article. Minister, do you agree with Mrs Tai's interpretation? The second point of debate was the publication. We have been informed that for the period 2010 to 2014, 7% of the previous decisions have not been published individually. Do you agree with me that this percentage is high and too high as far as I am concerned? Are you willing to consider adapting the rules so that each ruling must be published individually and anonymously? How many of the non-individually published rulings relate to the so-called excess profit rotations? What is the percentage of excess profit rotations in the total of unpublished rulings? How many overprofits have been published individually?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u14	Mr van der Maelen, with regard to the application of Article 22 of the Law of 24 December 2002, I agree with the interpretation of the Chairman of the Prior Decision Service. We could include Mr Vanvelthoven's question, which is also addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u15	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u16	I can deal with this in a moment, but perhaps I will answer the other questions first.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u17	Mr Vanvelthoven is not coming, so you are welcome to reply. Mr Vanvelthoven's question has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u18	I will get Mr Vanvelthoven's written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u19	Good. I will examine, in consultation with the service, and always taking into account the obligation of professional secrecy, which we cannot remove from the table, how all decisions can possibly be published anonymously. That's what we're investigating. I have said that here, and it is also an effective matter. From 2005 to 2015, in particular until 3 February 2015, a total of 4 770 decisions were taken. Of these, 630 were published anonymously on a non-individual basis. The non-individual published excess profit rotations, excess profit rulings, account for 9,8% of this category. In total, 8 overprofits were published. A ninth excess profit rotation was also published, but this ruling concerned effective double taxation abroad. These figures do not contain renunciations of applications as no decision was taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u20	Minister, I will take note of the figures you have just listed. I'll take a closer look at them. I regret, however, that you agree with Mrs Tai's interpretation, because that means no more or no less than that there are no tax havens for the ruling service. Therefore, the ruling service does not have to say that it cannot conclude a ruling with a particular country because it is considered by the OECD to be a country that does not cooperate sufficiently. I repeat what I have defended as an interpretation of Rule 22. If a dynamic interpretation is used, the wording can be used widely enough. If, as Mrs Tai says, on the basis of the 2002 list, there are no more countries, then so be it. However, if one works on the basis of the annual lists published by the OECD and uses this list, then there are at least a dozen countries, of which everyone in the Chamber agrees that they are countries with which we do not like to deal with fiscal matters. The ruling service could then be expected not to accept rulings with companies located in those countries. I regret that you agree with Mrs Tai's interpretation that there are no tax havens for the ruling service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u21	This is contained in the long answer to Mr Vanvelthoven's written question. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this with you at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u22	If you are aware of the answer, then perhaps that matter can be re-examined, because it has given rise to discussions in previous times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 1877 by Mr Georges Gilkinet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u24	Mr President, Minister, this issue was tabled long before the debates we had, among other things, in plenary yesterday. It followed an action by one of the FPS Finance staff unions, whose aim was to denounce working conditions within the FPS. More specifically, in the claims, the union wanted to denounce the lack of resources and staff for an effective fight against major tax fraud. This clearly raises the question of the place that the current government wants to place in the fight against tax evasion. While all means are in place to step up the fight against social fraud, the lack of material and human resources to effectively combat tax fraud raises questions. Yesterday we were given a large number by Mr Ducrame, who did indeed recall the increase in the number of collaborators within the ISI. He failed to state that it was under the Di Rupo government. Indeed, it was in 2012 that 120 officers were recruited. At the time we were 606 members of the ISI. Since then, as departures have not been replaced, this figure has fallen to 576. Minister, could you tell us how many officers are involved in the fight against tax fraud? Are there any movements and commitments planned by this government? Finally, significant investments in equipment were made during the previous legislature a few years ago to combat tax fraud more effectively. We know the speed with which computer equipment is using and must constantly evolve. This equipment needs to be maintained regularly or even replaced. Therefore, can you, Minister, assure us that the FPS Finances is properly equipped to replace this material?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Crusnière, following the measures taken by the government in 2012, the FPS Finance was able to recruit a significant number of public servants to combat tax evasion. Many of these staff members have been assigned to the General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate, but the other administrations have also received new staff members. These officials have received adequate training in preparation for their mission. Depending on the administration to which they have been incorporated, they have the possibility, in relation to their function, to attend additional specific training courses and/or seminars. Here are the more detailed figures on your questions. Of the 120 new staff members, 68 are level A, 46 are level B and 6 are data miners. The ISI therefore has a total contingent of 576 staff members for its external services. As a result of internal changes, pension departures and staff movements following the changeover, this figure is temporarily reduced to 566. Some of these 120 fraud hunters have been incorporated into input services and are involved in the detection of fraud signals and fraud mechanisms. In the General Administration of Perception and Recovery, fewer than 25 new level A staff were recruited. As a result of voluntary departures and postulations in other departments, 17 of these officers remain in the legal services of the various regional collection centres, working in particular on complex cases related to the fraudulent insolvency organization. In addition, a legal department specializing in the processing of fraud cases, located in the special collection centre in Brussels, currently employs 10 case managers, including three of the staff recruited in 2012. The General Administration of Taxation has recruited 19 level A and 5 level B officers in the fight against tax fraud. In addition, in order to increase the effectiveness of monitoring, e-audit courses are organised in a systematic manner. In addition, in the course of 2015, specific training is planned in order to be able to carry out checks on the introduction and use of cash registers. The General Administration of Customs and Excise has recruited 21 level A officers and 41 level B officers. The Investigation and Research Administration of the General Administration of Customs and Excise has, to date, 281 research officers, 62 of whom were recruited in 2012. In all cases, the fight against tax fraud is and will remain a top priority of the FPS Finance in the years to come. The current government is convinced that, beyond the number of public servants, the fight against tax fraud requires a modern and efficient tax administration that makes optimal use of the human and material resources at its disposal. This announced modernization is not a futile word since the General Administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, including central services, currently with just over 600 agents is the first of the general administrations of the FPS Finances where the changeover operation is completely completed. Just like the organiser of the fraud mechanism, the fight against fraud needs more than ever a multidisciplinary approach bringing together various specialists competent in different tax laws at all stages of the procedure but also in computer and data mining. This is the objective of operationalizing the working processes of the new ISI structure, which aims to enhance the effectiveness of investigations by focusing on key tasks and achieving a truly integrated approach across all areas of expertise, with particular attention to knowledge sharing and continuous training of officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u26	Minister, thank you. I hear that the fight against fraud remains one of your priorities. With regard to what was said yesterday, Mr Ducrame announced that you had decided to increase the staff of the Special Tax Inspectorate by 10%. Currently, we are at 566, but in 2012 we were at 606. As a result, there are 40 jobs lost due to departures and movements due to the changeover. I take note of your willingness to step up the fight against tax fraud. In the next budget adjustment, we will see what concrete means you will want to take to combat this tax fraud effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u27	Mr. Secretary, I've heard that 600 people work at the BBI. You talked about 566 people at some point, but you ended up at 600. I believe that there is a difference in interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u28	Mr President, at the moment there are 566, but in the context of budgetary control I have spoken with the people of FPS Finance this week. We are seeing together what we can do, in the budgetary context which is what it is with the limits imposed, to try to increase the staff even further. This exercise is ongoing and not yet finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u29	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have recently been questioned by a condominium that has been denied a loan in connection with the construction of insulation works on the grounds that it is managed by one of the co-owners and not by a trustee accredited by the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents (IPI). It would appear that some banks, in this case Belfius, which is also a state bank, make loans conditional upon the presence of a professional trustee accredited by the IPI. In Belgium, co-ownership represents 72,000 buildings and 1 200 000 dwellings. More than half of these buildings were built before 1970. For these, renovations, insulation, etc. We hope, therefore, that some of them will have to be financed by borrowing. It is also known that the IPI registers more than 1,000 complaints each year against registered agents. There is therefore no evidence that a condominium run by a co-owner is less well managed than if it had been run by an approved trustee. I am afraid that this is not an isolated case, that it has already happened and that this may well happen again in the future. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Are you aware of these practices exercised by banks in general? Do you have any figures on the number of cases for which a loan was refused for the same reasons? Is this not a clear discrimination between condominiums? Do you not think that this attitude is totally contrary to the will of this government, namely to allow the economy to rebuild, through the works, but also to the freedom of the consumer to join commercial services or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Wilmès, Belfius assured me that there were no restrictions on the treatment of credits. Due to the specific or specific nature of the financing of renovations in a condominium, Belfius has a specific procedure for processing credit applications for this type of customer. In assessing the application for credit, account shall be taken, inter alia, of the professionalism of the trustee, the status of the association in co-ownership, as well as the financial statements and the financial management of the association. None of these elements is discriminating in themselves when making a decision on the credit claim. Each file is therefore valued in the light of its own strengths. The granting of credit to this type of customer necessarily requires a tailor-made approach, inter alia as regards financial analysis and the limitation of the possibilities of setting up guarantees. In this case it is possible to cover certain risks by means of credit insurance considered by Belfius as collateral as such. Finally, in 2013, Belfius granted 230 credits to associations of co-owners. In 2014, approximately 2,050 credits were granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u31	Mr Gilkinet is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u32	Mr President, Minister, my fellow Members, who have been members of this committee for a long time, will remember that I have been asking questions since 2011 about the conformity of the overprofits and European regulations. Minister, not long ago you defended these deals in plenary session in response to an oral question on these deals. Mrs Tai did so at the meeting on 25 January, saying that she is convinced that they are doing nothing wrong, that this is all right. The European Commission announces in a communication of 3 February 2015 an in-debt study of this practice. Anyone who has read the text and knows a little about the European Commission's choice of words will see that we are moving fast. All the arguments put forward by Belgium in the past in defence of practice are refuted in the communiqué. Minister, what is your response to this investigation? I read in the press that you will contact the European Commission to explain Belgium's vision once again. Has that contact already taken place? If so, can you tell us something else?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u33	Mr President, Minister, Mr Van der Maelen, I would first like to address you. You do know that your possible future chairman is in favour of more rulings, don't you? You are also making a comment about this government. Allow me to point out that this is not a business as usual as it used to be. This is a government with partners who want to change a number of things. This is gonna take some time. Minister, what I noticed in Mrs Vestager's story is that she refers to a distortion of competition. In particular, let us be clear about the fact that excess profit rulings must be done correctly. There are procedures for this to be respected. When looking at excess profit rulings in relation to a distortion of competition, I think it is important to emphasise that in the area of taxation and parafiscality, Member States, and even regions which are not yet in competition, have a broad palette at their disposal. How does this study relate to all the other possibilities that Member States have? I also note that the small Member States, which have to defend themselves vis-à-vis the larger Member States with any tax advantages, are particularly affected. What is being taken into account even more than this when a European Commissioner talks about distorting competition in the tax field? I shall then come to the further course of this matter. We are, of course, prepared to work in complete transparency, as are other countries. This seems pretty obvious to me. This study was launched in June 2013. Is this investigation now closed? Or will we be faced with such cases in the coming months or years?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u34	Mr President, if the two speakers allow it, I would first like to take a more general philosophical view. Throughout this debate on state aid, distortion of competition is often the ultimate test. Indeed, if the normal course of events in a competitive situation is distorted, State aid is involved. This debate will be very much on the agenda in the coming period, because, of course, it will have important consequences for many elements of European regulation. To be honest, I am looking forward to exchanging views in various contexts with all those present and with those who are not here today. As to the specific question concerning the excess profit rotation or excess profit rulings, as far as the OECD Guidelines on this issue are concerned, it is disputed. After careful consideration, we believe that we can show to the European Commission that the fork is slightly different from what it is proposing today. We will be able to respond to all the elements cited by the European Commission in its communication of 3 February in order to speak of possible state aid in our opinion. I will do so during the interview requested with Mrs Vestager. There are contacts to record that appointment, but unfortunately I cannot give a specific date yet. It is indeed intended that this should be done in the short term so that this important discussion can take place at individual or personal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u35	Mr. Secretary, good luck to you. When I made my pleas in 2011, that didn't happen out of the loose wrist. I had previously consulted specialists and experts who had long had very serious doubts. "However, at this stage the Commission had duplicates that this interpretation of the OECD principle of "arm's length' is valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u36	The Commission has serious doubles. Before they write that down... they say it might be possible to use the arms length principle and that one can neutralize some profit. However, they say that Belgium has gone to more than 50%, in some cases even more than 90%. I wish you the best of luck to speak that percentage straight. Another argument put forward by the Belgians is also refuted: "This is because the reductions in Belgium do not correspond to a claim from another country to tax the same profits." That argument is therefore not valid either. So the European Commission already has a very clear position. Minister, I would advise you to start figures now. Indeed, if the European Commission is right and some but hopefully not all overprofits will be counted as state aid, then it must be repaid. That will be a serious invoice, if even half of the win-win rule is not accepted. That's gonna be a very heavy bill to pay back. I hope it doesn't happen. However, if it does, no one will stop me from pointing out that I had warned in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u37	Mr President, may I give a brief reply? Firstly, Mr van der Maelen, there is no hair on my head. That's really not the issue. This is a very serious argument, which we will also give a serious answer to. For the rest, I should like to say that the rulings on which you speak are almost all pre-government. So if we have to pay an account in this respect, can I see them as a shared responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I will not always agree with you. Nor have I always agreed with the views of Koen Geens and Didier Reynders. I can prove, on the basis of parliamentary documents, that I started warning against the overprofits in 2011 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u39	I hope that we will never get to that point and that the excess profit rulings can survive the touchstone of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u40	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen, it is a small matter, but I would like to remind you that no one can stop you from throwing up your warning. However, no one will be able to stop me from reminding you of the fact that you pushed the green button. In this way, you have not only made the rulings possible. You have also adopted the legislation that made the rulings possible. Some restraint is therefore appropriate on this subject. For the rest, I would like to thank the Minister for his very clear political position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u41	Mr President, Minister, you stated that Luxembourg would deliver all rulings to which Belgian companies are party to the Belgian administration. Did this happen in the meantime? How many rulings is it about and what period do they cover? Are you planning a control action to verify whether companies that obtained a ruling in Belgium have notified their application and provided full transparency of their Luxembourg ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, as part of the LuxLeaks case, we felt that it was urgent and essential that the special tax inspection should receive all the files passed between Belgian companies and the Luxembourg tax authorities under the conditions of opacity already described. Of course, this request was intended to determine whether or not there was a need to correct the taxpayers concerned in Belgium or even to consider further action. We learn that the ISI received several ruling files last Friday. According to the Luxembourg press, these are 16 cases and as many companies listed in BEL 20. They would therefore be the largest companies in the country. Minister, do you confirm this information? Do you already have an ISI analysis of these files? How many people are assigned to work on these files? What is the timing agreed with Luxembourg to continue the transmission of these Luxembourg ruling cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached at the end of January between Luxembourg and Belgium follows a request for information concerning Luxembourg settlements which Belgium had sent to the Grand Duchy in November 2014. At a meeting held on 21 January in Luxembourg, this request was discussed and clarified. First, both countries agreed that the exchange would take place on a reciprocal basis. Belgium is therefore also committed to sending information on Belgian settlements involving Luxembourg taxpayers. The exchange will then take place on request. Both delegations agreed to quickly exchange a first round of rulings. The exchange of information will take place on request and on the basis of lists of taxpayers determined by each of the two States. Delegations did not agree on a specific frequency. Applications and exchanges will take place as required by both jurisdictions. On 5 February, 13 rulings relating to 16 Luxembourg companies linked to Belgian companies were communicated to Belgium. For the time being, the Luxembourg administration has not yet sent a request for information to the Belgian administration. Thus, no ruling has so far been sent to Luxembourg. Let me point out that this government is the first to have obtained or to have applied for Luxembourg rulings. Now he gets them. This is an important step towards greater tax transparency. This government therefore translates its words into action. A thorough monitoring of the tax situation of the Belgian companies targeted by the Luxembourg settlements will be carried out as soon as possible by my department. The content of this review and the distribution of cases between the different tax administrations will depend on the factual circumstances of each situation. In any event, if a ruling has been requested in Belgium by one of the undertakings concerned, it will in particular be verified in the context of that thorough check whether the undertaking in question referred in its application to the existence of a Luxembourg ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for this information. On behalf of my group, I urge that there should be a thorough investigation of these files, and not as a simple preliminary examination by the input services a few months ago. No, we ask that those rulings be looked at in very detail. We believe that a Luxembourg ruling is not a checkmate for Belgian tax authorities. If the information in the press is correct, there are several Luxembourg rulings where a tax base limit has been set. This is contrary to the arm lining-length principle. Belgium does not have to accept that. We have the right to say that this is not in line with normal transfer pricing practices and we want to tax the profits that have disappeared from Belgium through this technique. We can get revenue from that. There are other examples. According to what we read and hear, large sums have been sent to a Luxembourg post office box and deducted from profits in Belgium. The Belgian tax authorities do not have to accept this either. This is a profit taxable in Belgium which has been withdrawn from the Belgian tax authorities in a non-legal way. So we can also levy taxes on this. Minister, we ask that your services look very closely at these rulings and collect the money that is still to be extracted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u45	Minister, thank you. Your answer brings us a new and very important element. Indeed, the transmission of the rules between Belgium and Luxembourg is not automatic, it is done on request. This means that, at this stage, there is no guarantee that all the files concerned by LuxLeaks will be automatically transmitted to Belgium. Therefore, I can only ask you to ensure that all the files concerned by LuxLeaks can be forwarded to Belgium. But, be careful, let's remember that the LuxLeaks only concerns the rules that were managed by PricewaterhouseCoopers. There is no indication that, on the part of Ernst & Young and a number of other similar consulting companies, there have not also been rules introduced on behalf of Luxembourg subsidiaries or companies linked to Belgian companies. In other words, here we are faced with uncertainty as to the extent of the Luxembourg ruling cases involving Belgian companies directly or indirectly. Moreover, there is no automaticity. In other words, the Belgian negotiators have visibly failed to obtain an exhaustive automatic transmission from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is quite worrying. That said, we must not show bad faith. I realize, of course, that the Special Inspectorate of Taxes cannot absorb, within a few weeks, a mass of files and analyse them. We are fulfilling our role as parliamentarians by asking questions, among other things. It is a good idea to say that we will come back in a few months to get more details on the situation in this area. Still, the ISI has to work, and I am concerned that the ISI is increasingly being asked to do so, given the number of cases that are accumulating. I am thinking here of LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks, OffshoreLeaks, not to mention a whole series of other cases that come in particular from the public prosecutor's office. That is why our discussions on the staff of the Special Tax Inspectorate are very important. You won't blame me for making a little more political incise. The Plan Office predicts 1% growth. We know that the conclave will be very difficult. In other words, rather than imagining additional taxes on consumption, rather than reimagining savings on state services, or even anti-social measures in other departments, should we not put the package on all these cases of tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax evasion? This would make it possible to look for money as quickly as possible, relying in particular on the fact that if we put pressure on the actors of these evasive or fraudulent mounts, we can get them to sign agreements on corrections – with increments, whether things are clear. I draw the minister's attention to that. But here there is a new, very important element: there is no automaticity in the information provided by Luxembourg, and that is not the case! It is high time that Luxembourgers and Swiss understand that we are not their playground. They cover a number of actions that siphon our public finances and put us in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u46	Mr President, I should like to make it clear that, for the selection of cases, we are examining in particular the links between Belgian companies and their sister companies in Luxembourg. To do this, we have a lot of information that allows us to cover the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-13-54-commissie-ic094x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 1970 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 1989 absence was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 1990 proposal was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 1994 report was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van de Velde's 1999 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 2003 by Mr Van Biesen was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Temmerman's 2027, absent, is deleted. Merged Questions No. 2082 by Mr Dedecker and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2234 by Mrs Smaers were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain, absent, was deleted. The interplay No. Mrs Pas 21 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Scourneau, absent, was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo, absent, was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 2200 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, absent, is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 2258 by Mr Mathot was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2259 by Mr Mathot was postponed. Minister, that brings us to the end of the agenda. You can still quietly solve the Greek problems.
