ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, several colleagues have asked us to turn their questions into written questions. It is true that we are at the end of the session with an increasingly busy agenda. Many cases are urgent. Questions No 4097 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, No 4186 by Mrs Sophie Wilmès, No 4581 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Nos 5017 and 5450 by Mr Marcel Cheron are therefore transformed into written questions. Question No 5449 by Mr Cheron is deleted. Madam Secretary of State, I would add that the oldest question was on 27 April. Energy and nuclear power have taken us a long time and we have not been able to find any other meeting dates, hence the withdrawal of some members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, in your policy statement, you outlined certain research and development priorities in order to meet European objectives. Some of these objectives were to be carried out in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions. In particular, it was envisaged that federal aid would be listed and that its management would be coordinated so that it would be aligned with regional and Community policy. In addition, an evaluation of the structures for scientific policy consultation was to be carried out in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions in order to optimise the presence of the various Belgian authorities at European research level. You also expressed your willingness to improve the technology platform developed in collaboration with the Planning Office, in order to allow the Regions and Communities to make a comparison with what is being done abroad. I think it's often interesting to see what's going on elsewhere – I'm not saying everything is good elsewhere, certainly not – to have references. Madam Secretary of State, are the above objectives being achieved? Is collaboration with the Regions effective? Have you had any contacts, any meetings? Do you have a schedule? Is there a concordance between federal aid and scientific policy at Community and regional level? Is this done in a concerted manner? What about the structures for consultation? Have they already been evaluated? If so, what lessons do you learn from these evaluations? Has the technology platform already been reformed? Is the objective of international comparison achieved? In the event that these objectives are not yet achieved, can you give us an agenda including the planned working method and any prior consultations? My question was tabled some time ago, it is true, but the current situation makes it possible to take stock before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, I thank you for your sincere interest in federal science policy and for the role it can play vis-à-vis the Regions and the Communities. The basis between the different levels of power, which does exist, needs to be improved, intensified and streamlined. To achieve this, it is crucial to look carefully at the current situation and to lay the foundations capable of supporting the entire modernized construction. So I can tell you that I'm working hard on it with my collaborators in the scientific political cell of my firm. In the past, the lack of political concordance in federal science policy has repeatedly proved problematic. That is why I mentioned the evaluation of the current structures for consultation in my policy statement. The aim of this evaluation is to maximise the presence of the various Belgian authorities in European research. In order to sustain the organization of international collaboration with the regional consultation, there is the Interdepartmental Conference on Science Policy (CIMPS) and the Commission for International Cooperation and the Commission for Federal Cooperation (CIS-CFS). These two committees are responsible for administrative cooperation on matters of concern to the federal authority and to the federated entities, at international and Belgian level respectively. They are composed of senior officials who represent the federal authority, the Communities and the Regions. Within this framework of consultation, the CIS has among other formulas, the Belgian Position Paper on Horizon 2020, of February 2012. This is a general Belgian political position on the European Framework Programme. In addition, the CIS also consults on a range of specific topics which require a common Belgian position, in particular on European research programmes. The legal basis for the CIS and the CFS was laid down in the Agreement of 14 February 2014 on the cooperation of the State, the Communities and the Regions in the field of scientific policy. In the future, we intend to give even more impetus to these structures of consultation in dealing with specific positions. There are two aspects to which our attention is drawn. On the one hand, the members of the CIS are experts in their field of work. On the other hand, several members also represent authorities that provide research funding to universities, research centres, colleges and companies. But this cannot be a corollary to the fact that the research funding body also has an influence on the formation of the federal position with the Regions. We will examine further the possible area of tension between these missions and propose possible measures to address them. In view of the multitude of international themes, the CIS meets very frequently, at least every two months, which undermines the alignment with the CIMPS, which in recent years only met once a year. Indeed, it is not possible to address all the topics in CIMPS within the time limit, in part because of the strict schedule that the European Commission is following. However, greater concordance is still desirable. In the past, the alignment between federal and regional support was primarily the responsibility of the CIS and the IMPSC. As discussed above, the functioning of these bodies will be subject to an evaluation, which is also part of the overall evaluation of BELSPO, which is currently under way. With regard to the functioning of the CIMPS and the CIS-CFS, stakeholders will be heard with a view to possibly strengthening their dynamism. In addition, in this context, we wish to take into account the political opinions of the regional level. At the end of 2014, we received a constructive opinion from the Flemish Council for Science and Innovation (VRWI), which addressed the concordance between the federal and regional levels. This platform, whose aim is to make international comparisons, is already on a good footing. In the past, many quantitative data have been collected by BELSPO. The results are available on the BELSPO website and can also be found in two reports. The first report, BRISTI, Belgian Report on Science, Technology and Innovation, 2010 was produced under the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. At that time, the report was in its third edition. The first edition dates back to the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. Between the two editions, an update was made. The 2013 Annual Report on Science and Technology Indicators for Belgium was a unique exercise. Other statistical publications are available on the innovationdata.be website, among others. This site was born from a collaboration with the Office of Planning. It includes all statistical indicators for research and innovation at national and regional level. The further development of a platform for international benchmarking requires a profound alignment with OECD data in the field of science policy. The OECD has data that are defined in such a way as to allow international comparison. This concordance with the OECD is therefore a first step towards the further optimisation of the existing platform. The continued adaptation of the structures of collaboration with the Regions and the continued development of scientific policy data with the possibility of international benchmarking are an integral part of the government agreement. We will finalize this planning in the course of this legislature and we will be open and constructive to all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your full answer. I understand that there is an evaluation at BELSPO and that an evaluation will be scheduled at CIS-CFS. I understand that you had to take stock before taking any action. The government agreement will not take place in six months, but over the term of the legislature. Scientific research is a very important area. For example, in Sweden and Denmark, scientific research is an essential driver. You spoke of a consultation with the Flemish government, without giving the agenda, but you did not mention the Walloon and Brussels regions. I would have liked clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u5	Mr. Geerts will not join us. His question no. 4682 therefore becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u6	Minister, the Federal Science Policy is the owner of the Belgian oceanographic research building RV Belgica. This vessel is made available to Belgian scientists to carry out basic research activities at sea. In your orientation paper, you identified the continued airworthiness of the current oceanographic vessel as one of the major challenges. It was planned to examine the possibility of strengthening international cooperation, possibly with Benelux. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? Have any contacts been made with our neighbouring countries with a view to cooperation? What future is reserved for this oceanographic ship?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u7	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, since the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2014, the following progress has been made or made. 1° The completion of the prospecting of the technical specifications of the new vessel carried out in collaboration with the Defence and the provision of a draft specification concerning the technical part for the construction of a new vessel. 2° The completion and updating of the note concerning the scientific needs for the new vessel in collaboration with all the universities and the Belgian institutes concerned. 3° The launch of bilateral consultation between the Science Policy Office and the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium, which is the manager of the current RV Belgica, with a view to drawing up an action plan to prepare the final dossier for the replacement of the current RV Belgica. Based on previous contacts with potential foreign partners, the following countries were contacted. As regards Denmark, a consultation was held with the Technical University of Denmark with a view to possible collaboration in the construction of the new joint research vessel to ensure joint monitoring activities and to contribute to the development of international basic research in Greenland. To the extent that it is not possible to exercise the monitoring obligations of both countries with a single vessel, effective cooperation in the construction of a joint vessel seems very difficult to achieve. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, in the past a consultation has already taken place with the Royal Netherlands Institute for Oceanographic Research and the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research on the possible construction of a new joint research vessel and the use of RV Pelagia. With an age difference of at least 10 years between RV Belgica and RV Pelagia, the question of the construction of a common research vessel did not arise, especially since ship data cover different areas of work and scientific activity. However, a possible collaboration will be considered as to the chances of sailing time. I personally met with the ambassador. It is possible for us to have a time of navigation on the FRV Tridens against payment. However, it is difficult to adjust the monitoring activities of Belgium and the Netherlands. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, a consultation is under way with the Center for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science for the use of its research vessel RV Endeavour. However, in this case, we find ourselves faced with the same restrictive considerations as those already mentioned in respect of surveillance activities. As regards Luxembourg, following informal contacts with the Luxembourg Minister responsible for scientific policy, it has been concluded that there is no immediate possibility for cooperation between the two countries. As far as France is concerned, the dialogue is under way with the French Institute for the Exploitation de la Mer (IFREMER). Direct funding for the construction or operation of a new vessel is currently not possible. However, a possible collaboration could take place in so far as the new Belgian research vessel would carry out certain surveillance activities on behalf of France in exchange for which Belgian scientists could receive sailing time on board the research vessels of the IFREMER fleet. This is an intermediate conclusion since, within the RV Belgica, about 70% of navigation time is spent on mandatory surveillance activities. Collaboration with a foreign partner is only possible if the Belgian seasonal surveillance activities can be maintained. It is not possible at the requested times to charter a foreign ship to take over the duties of the Belgica. If we decide to replace the ship with a new one, we will be able to continue negotiations with possible foreign partners on an exchange of navigation time, so as to make more efficient use of research vessels and to allow Belgian researchers access to new fields of study and research infrastructures. Defence proposed to the Science Policy to ensure safety on board and the retention of the vessel by providing an approach to the problem of obsolescence. This requires an additional budget of approximately EUR 1 million for maintenance. I can inform you that the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences in Belgium will receive 1 109 000 euros in order to be able to carry out the necessary maintenance work. This additional budget will allow the vessel to remain in a safe and secure position for a maximum of four years. The minimum period required after the agreement for the construction and delivery of a new vessel is 3.5 years. A final decision on this matter must therefore be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u8	I thank the minister for the comprehensiveness of her response. I am pleased that we were able to take stock of two important issues this morning. In this case, I believe that contacts have been made, that things are moving forward. Investments are necessary but must be controlled. I am therefore very pleased with the work that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u9	Mr. Marcel Cheron won't be able to join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, my question is not dated today. Since its filing, we have received a number of information from you, among others. Savings had been decided in November 2014 for the 2015 budget. They were in the order of 4 per cent for staff costs and 20 per cent for operating costs. On average, 10% were withdrawn. In the longer term, this means much more. For example, for the Mint, according to Peter de Caluwe, savings of 4 per cent on staff costs and 20 per cent on operating costs, apart from successive decreases of 2 per cent per year, will lead to a 16.5 per cent decrease in subsidies at the end of the legislature. It's huge! In the meantime, after announcing, on the basis of the initial 2014 budget, savings of around 10 million euros, you have promised an additional 11 million for federal scientific institutions. However, if we didn't get any information on how the savings were made, first establishment by establishment, we know in detail how you reallocated the $11 million. What savings have been generated in each federal scientific institution? This is the recurring one. Will the same savings be made for the 2016 budget? On the other hand, the additional EUR 11 million you have announced for this year is a one shot budget, and not recurrent. Therefore, what will be the allocation in 2016, again established per institution, in absolute figures and percentages? These dots seem primordial to me. Mr President, once I have obtained this information, I will repeat the point during my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u11	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you have inherited quite a lot from the federal scientific institutions, and there is also something to clean up. This involves two elements: saving and investing at the same time. The first has already been partly done and the second is now happening. I notice that you are investing an additional EUR 11 million and part of it would be used for digitisation. Digitisation is also identified in the coalition agreement as one of the absolute priorities. Madam Secretary of State, in what way will you distribute the additional investment of EUR 11 million to the federal scientific institutions and what will you invest in in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u12	Mr. Chair, Madam Secretary of State, your Policy Note sets out several objectives for the management of federal scientific institutions (FSIs). A first objective is to strengthen the control of federal scientific institutions. In order to meet the latter, it was planned to conclude a management contract between the government and the ESFs and, possibly, to set up management bodies in order to optimise their management. So I have very clear questions: where are we in the development of this management contract? What form do you intend to give him and how long? Secondly, in discussions related to the presentation of your policy note, you announced the launch of a questionnaire that you expected to evaluate in the course of 2015. The purpose of this questionnaire was to identify priorities for each of the BSOs and possible collaborations. On the basis of this, you would have, if necessary, implemented certain ideas. Like my question date, I would like to add two small questions. Did you allocate the additional 11 million to the ESF on the basis of the responses to this questionnaire. If yes, are all requests answered? If not, how did you select the FSE applications? Can you provide me with the questionnaire sent to these federal scientific institutions and tell me what is the status of this draft questionnaire? More broadly, what is the status of discussions on this intensification of collaborations, announced at the beginning of the legislature between the different ESFs? Finally, with the aim of systematically renovating the buildings of the ESF and in particular adapting them to environmental standards, a masterplan had to be carried out. What about today? What meetings have been held and for what conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months I have been able to get a general idea of the temporary and recurring needs of the ESF. These needs were discussed during my working visits, during which I was able to talk to the directors and their close collaborators. These interviews took place in a very constructive atmosphere. I have also learned a great deal about the needs, following the discussions that the strategic collaborators of the Science Policy had with the directors and their collaborators in the context of the 2015 priorities. I repeat, I have managed to ensure that the ESFs can draw on financial resources for a total of 11.2 million euros, i.e. 30 % of the joint allocation for 2015. These resources enable the most urgent investments to be made. These unique investments were to take place in any case, regardless of the expected empowerment. In a later phase, I will check how to achieve the empowerment of FSEs. I hope to be able to submit a more concrete plan this autumn, but this is an extremely complex matter which requires tailor-made work for each FSE. In any case, the collaboration between ESF remains a major focus of my policy and will remain so in the new structure. I also stressed this last week, during my speech at the inauguration of the restored relief "The Human Passions" of Jef Lambeaux. This project is an excellent example of successful collaboration, notably between the Royal Museums of Art and History and the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage. I will also expand collaboration with the academic world. I cannot say any more at the moment, even though the project has already made good progress on its substance. With regard to Mrs Winckel's question about adapting to environmental standards, I would like to point out that this should be included in the overall renovation plan. In my view, two FSBs are a priority for renovation. I have already addressed this issue with the Deputy Prime Minister, who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his responsibilities. Mrs Fonck, the percentages of savings are as follows: in 2015, 4% on staff, 20% on operations, 22% on investments. From 2016 until 2018, annual savings will be as follows: 2% on staff, 2% on operations and 3% on investments. In 2019, a 2% saving is expected on staff, operations and investment. If you wish, I can give you the painting, but I also have to explain it to you. However, I would like to clarify one or the other point in order to correctly describe the impact of savings on federal scientific institutions. Provisional appropriations were entered both in the 2013 budget year and in the 2014 budget year in each of the institutions. These provisional appropriations could only be entered on an exceptional basis for non-recurring expenditure. In 2013, it was chosen to abolish this provisional appropriation during the budgetary control. For 2014, I expressly chose, as Secretary of State, to reassign them to institutions, thus allowing a necessary margin for the reserves of all these institutions. These provisional appropriations are therefore not necessary to ensure the regular functioning of the institutions. However, they must be taken into account in the calculation of staffing when the savings are calculated. In other words, the effort (dotations, including provisional appropriations, linear savings) is therefore less than what appears in the budget tables. The picture for all federal scientific institutions is therefore as follows: the 2014 allocation (first slide) including the provisional appropriations therefore amounts to 46 132 000 euros (green line) minus the provisional appropriations of the same year, i.e. 3 650 000 euros, i.e. a net allocation for the ESF of 42 482 000 euros (red line) in 2014. I'll explain to you about the second slide. In other words, compared to the 2014 financial year, the institutions had an overall improvement of EUR 2 million during this term. Second slide. If we take into account the unique investments, the 50% spending in 2015 and 50% spending in 2016, the staffing details change in the following way, which you see on the slide. I would also like to stress, as I have just said in my reply to Mrs Claerhout, that I have already taken four political initiatives aimed at further strengthening the ESF. First of all, strict neutrality. Secondly, the mastery of the 2015 economies. Thirdly, the development of the space necessary for the creation of a long-term investment plan. Fourthly, the unique investments to bridge the backlog. Let me explain more about this. As I have already indicated in plenary and also at the moment, I have earmarked more than EUR 11 million for investment. These are the following projects: for the General Archives of the Kingdom, which will receive this year (2015) an allocation of €4,813,000, additional investments will be planned for a value of €678,000. We thus fulfil the two essential tasks of the General Archives of the Kingdom, namely the preservation and provision of the archives of the federal authorities. Internal storage capacity will also be increased and security copies may be made. A new management system for the long-term preservation of digital and analog archive collections will be purchased, valued at €220,000. As part of the service to the public, an investment will be made in order to strengthen the digital offer by purchasing a colour scanner with a value of 450,000 euros. The Institute of Space Aeronomy of Belgium (IASB), which receives an allocation of €1,243,000 in 2015, will be the subject of additional investments of a third of €2,070,000. With MRI and ORB, the IASB proposes to make a joint investment in the common infrastructure on their site in Uccle. This investment will therefore strengthen this synergy. This budget will be used to modernize and expand the computer centre with data storage and increased computer capacity, a firewall and adapted air conditioning. With regard to CETESOMA, which receives an allocation of EUR 1 524 000, I am planning an additional investment of EUR 297 200. I have already explained how this budget will be allocated in practice. For the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences of Belgium (IRSNB), which receives an allocation of almost 8 million euros, I plan an additional investment of 1,848,000 euros. On the proposal of the IRSNB, I decided to invest as a priority in the high-quality digitisation of the available specimen-types so that they can be consulted and studied without problems on this digital port. For this purpose, equipment that could be used for both biological and geological specimens will be purchased. As manager of the Belgica research vessel, the IRSNB receives 1 019 000 euros in order to be able to carry out the necessary maintenance work, as I have already said in another question. The Royal Library, which receives an allocation of more than 6,000,000 euros, can expect an additional investment of 1,886,000 euros. The Royal Library's priority is the renovation of the Library's management system, which allows for adequate inventorying, effective management and openness to the public. To this end, I am providing the necessary million euros. The provision of services to the public will be improved by the renovation of the reading room "newspapers and contemporary media" for a budget of €550,000. In order to modernise KBR's public spaces and make them meeting spaces for reading, study and research, a Wi-Fi network will also be set up for a budget of EUR 100 million. To give more impact to digitalization and reproduction, the purchase of the necessary equipment is planned. It is a scanner for large formats, a microfilm camera and the installation of high-speed connectivity. All this amounts to EUR 185 000. Telephony will also be modernised to a maximum of 51,000 euros. The Royal Institute for the Art Heritage, which receives a donation of EUR 1 338 000, can count on an additional investment of EUR 1 033 000. Within the framework of the one-off investments, the KIK or IRPA shall give priority to the renewal of research equipment. The main mission of the KIK is the physical research and restoration of the Belgian heritage. It therefore worked together with and for the FWI but also the local authorities, the Communities and private bodies. Because of its expertise, the KIK enjoys world fame but the new investments are absolutely necessary to sustain it. Here is a selection of the new equipment: an automated graphitisation system in the context of carbon dating, a grid electron microscope and a macrofluorescence spectrometer. All this is worth EUR 871 000. Another important item is the storage of data, with a budget of EUR 60 000. People with disabilities were also envisaged by the purchase of two adapted evacuation seats in case of an emergency. The Royal Meteorological Institute receives a grant of EUR 3 981 000 and I can make an additional investment of EUR 150 000 plus a third of EUR 2 070 000. In addition to making weather reports, the RMI is also responsible for research that improves the accuracy of weather forecasts. Furthermore, the RMI also makes an important contribution to improving our knowledge of the climate, the water cycle, earth magnetism and the ionosphere. Specifically for the RMI will be invested in even better thunderstorms detection. This will allow the population to be more targeted in extreme circumstances. The Royal Museums of Art and History receive an allocation of 4,964,000 euros and can make an additional investment of 1,361,000 euros. They give priority to the spaces that will house the rooms dedicated to the decorative arts of the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth centuries and will manage the patronage of the InBev-Baillet Latour fonds for the development of these rooms. This allows an additional financial injection of 93,000 euros and finances the completion of the project, i.e. the integration of the Wolfers store. This amounts to more than €550,000. The recruitment of private capital is one of the interests of its policy. The Antiquity rooms will have to be refreshed for a sum of 183,000 euros. Eighty thousand euros will be injected into the improvement of the space reserved for the Folklore, Metal and National Archaeology collections. Two hundred and eighty-five thousand euros will be allocated to the restoration of ten Egyptian sarcophagi and the communication of scientific research for the benefit of researchers. The Egyptian collection is the most visited collection of the Royal Museums of Art and History, especially by school groups. More than 150 000 euros will be allocated for the improvement of telephony and management software. The Royal Museum of Central Africa receives an allocation of 3,551,000 euros and can make an additional investment of more than 1 million euros. He wants to invest heavily to meet the opening date of the fully renovated building in summer 2017. The first priority under the additional investment will therefore be completion elements, equipment and security infrastructure, catering, communication and marketing, audio, video and film equipment, etc. To this end, I am planning a million euros. Also supported are the exhibitions Pop-Up, Popular Painting in Congo and Stamps History, which will take place in BOZAR. Pop-Up exhibitions are mounted elsewhere with the partnership of a closed establishment. The Royal Museum of Central Africa remains active throughout the pre-opening phase. The Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium receive an allocation of almost 4 million euros, with an additional investment of almost 800,000 euros in renovation work and the integration of the collection of Modern Art. I plan the means for an energy audit of the vast building, a new efficient telephone system, as well as a system for improving the internal flow of information and a system for the technical management of buildings with a view to improving the control of fire alarms, thermal alarms, water detections and others. As part of the sustainable conservation of works, advanced digital technologies will be implemented. These will allow, thanks to an electronic chip and barcode, to attach to each work of art a unique and traceable identity. The Royal Observatory of Belgium receives an allocation of EUR 1 293,000 and can make an additional investment of EUR 2 000. From its inception, the Observatory has been responsible for carrying out the correct time measurements for Belgium and for communicating the correct time to official bodies and public clocks. Following this first wave of unique investments, I will ask each institution to update its investment needs. Linear savings will also have to be made at BELSPO as in all other public services. I would like to place this in the perspective of the 2015 budget. I am planning more payment appropriations (570 million euros) than operational appropriations (525 million euros). In other words, I take responsibility for the fact that the invoices are no longer carried over and that those of the past are paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u14	Given the density of the figures mentioned and the tables, copies are being produced and will be distributed to the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for this long list of figures which we had already been able to read through the press, but you have still not answered the question that I asked you, that is to say, to obtain, establishment by establishment, the budgetary impact of the savings which you impose in a linear and recurring way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u16	This is the net balance between "plus" and "less".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u17	I don't even need the balance, I want to be given, year by year, the impact that it represents per institution. Madam Secretary of State, you must not give me this at the second, but I am formally asking the chairman of this committee to obtain these figures. There is a big concern when you realize linear and blind savings, which is already a bad choice. The bill is very heavy! By 2019, this will represent 12% on staff, 28% on operations, 33% on investments. These numbers are huge! The compensation and the 11 million you present as a gift are not comparable at all. It's one shot while the savings are recurring. Moreover, we are not at all in the same order of magnitude. This is clearly not a compensation for the savings that you have already imposed in 2015 and that you have planned for the next four years. You are in the process of preparing the 2016 budget, which is at the heart of the government's discussions. I think it's time for you to change your shoulder rifle. With economies of this magnitude, you will not be able to guarantee the current and future functioning of federal scientific institutions, you will not be able to guarantee and preserve the scope and quality of these scientific institutions, nor will you allow them to continue to invest in research. You impose major savings, which underlies your ideological line, but you forget that these federal scientific institutions are also a driving force for the economy. So I really plead that you take things differently and review the savings you want to impose in the coming years, which will be in addition to those already achieved in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u18	Mrs Fonck, I will come back to your request in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed reply. Mrs Fonck, very detailed figures may well be requested in writing. The Secretary of State has already given a lot of figures. Not only the figures, but also the vision behind them was given. More important than the figures is the vision behind it. You may not notice, but take a good look at the vertical axis on the slide and you will notice that it does not start at zero, so you should not exaggerate the impact of the savings there either. It is, of course, reasonable savings. That was also necessary, especially if it is recurrent, but it is not the case that these institutions are put on dry seed, quite the contrary. Moreover, it is only a one-off amount in 2015. From 2016 to 2018, the savings are only 2 to 3 % each. This will create a budget, which will be reinvested. You may say that EUR 11 million is a one-off investment, but the added value that is created by this is recurrent. They're investments in digitalization. Now, digitisation also reduces operating costs. With digital processes instead of paper and staff, much more can be done with less resources. These are also investments in accessibility and public activity. In this way one valorizes the values that are present there. They're pulling it out. There will be an audience. One also gets more and more income in other ways. I think this is a good way to work. It is a complete reshuffle of the way of working that has been applied so far. In this way, a future perspective for the organisations and their employees is emerging, and that is very important. For a further study of the figures, I refer to the written question which I myself will look at in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, since the beginning of the term of office, you know that we have a lot of concerns about how you manage your Department of Scientific Research. We have already asked many questions. The fact that Mr Dedecker comes here to support you and defend you is not a good way of doing this. All right. You also have the art of drowning fish. I am leaving disappointed again today because my questions have remained absolutely unanswered. What at the level of the management body? What form will it take? I also asked you about the questionnaire you sent to the FSEs. I had asked to have it available, I had asked about the status of this draft questionnaire, I had asked if you had received any answers. Was it on the basis of the answers to this questionnaire that you made this arbitration determining which budget you were going to allocate in this €11 million envelope. Compared to the masterplan, you answered me in part but not in a global way. So I remain clearly on my hunger. I regret this logic of linear savings and restrictions. You can say everything and its opposite in your answer. At one point, you can say that for good management, you realize restrictions, savings and then a little later, say that you got 11 million euros. It is important to have a real political vision and above all for a department that seems as fundamental to me as scientific research. I remain concerned, therefore, that I do not get answers to simple questions. After a year of mandate start, it is legitimate to expect answers and a vision of the strategy you will deploy. I will therefore allow myself to come back to these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-07-07-54-commissie-ic212x.u21	We have therefore concluded the debate. I just come back to Mrs Fonck's request. Beyond the documents distributed to us, Mrs Fonck asks, for the future, to have the balance between, on the one hand, the savings achieved thus less revenue and, on the other hand, what has been redistributed, and therefore the revenue in addition. A third column can be drawn, which is the net balance between the plus and the minus. Would it be possible to forward this request in writing to the Commission? I thus relay Mrs Fonck's request. Mrs. Claerhout doesn't want to join us. All the questions of colleagues are therefore transformed into written questions, except for the two questions of Mrs Claerhout, which were attached to this debate and become moot. We will therefore close our work. I thank the minister for her presence and her answers.
