ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u1	Mr. Secretary, we're told you can stay until 5:15? At the request of my fellow Members, if necessary, we would have a second meeting with you. Mr Daerden specifically asked for his question. 1761 to be postponed, because he is currently on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u2	Minister, I do not need to tell you how bad things are in the construction sector. In two years' time 12 000 jobs have been lost there. What is important is that it is mainly about the low-skilled. If we have to create jobs somewhere, it's for that low-skilled group. I read that the Secretary of State Tommelein, Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud, indicated a few weeks ago that there was a major problem, in particular the massive abuse of the European Posting of Workers Regulation. He is examining whether, together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, we can draw up a recommendation to deal with these abuses. I have also heard in the media that you are working on a range of measures to tackle the problem. You have taken a number of good measures for the catering sector to save jobs. We supported that. The problem with the low-skilled is massive competition with Eastern Europe. The big problem is wage costs. That's even more true in low-skilled jobs. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What do you mean by a range of measures? What initiatives will you take? Will you consult Commissioner Marianne Thyssen on the Posting of Workers Regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u3	Mrs Demir, you are well aware that both the coalition agreement and my policy paper contain a number of measures which the construction sector can benefit from, particularly in terms of the reduction of wages and the fight against social fraud and social dumping, which, as you rightly say, affects this sector in particular. It is a priority for this government to tackle these problems. This will include the transposition of the Enforcement Directive, which will lead to better and more uniform implementation. The implementation and enforcement of the Posting of Workers Directive is also under way. Among other things, the regime of joint and several liability for wage debts will be made more performant in order to ensure maximum compliance with the wage conditions in force in Belgium by foreign construction companies. Inspection services also give priority to the fight against social dumping. They work together both internally and cross-border in their approach to benefit fraud, fictitious companies, improper posting and illegal temporary employment agencies. These are a number of important levers to tackle social dumping in the construction sector. I myself organised a meeting on 31 March 2015, at which I asked the social partners in the construction sector to put forward concrete proposals to deal with the specific problems in the sector. They were prepared to do so. I await their proposals. I hope they'll be delivered soon. On the basis of these proposals and in consultation with my colleague, Secretary of State Bart Tommelein, I assume that we will take specific measures for the construction sector within my powers. I would also like to mention that the 2015 Action Plan on the fight against social fraud and social dumping, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 3 April 2015, includes a number of priority actions specifically aimed at the construction sector. In 2015, inspection services in the construction sector will continue to apply a sectoral and integrated approach, including quantitative targets for the number of controls. I agree with you that when transposing the enforcement directive and discussing proposals to reduce labour costs and tax shift, we should also focus on the construction sector and take the necessary measures. Finally, the European Commissioner is aware that it is an important point for us and awaits our proposals on this matter. We also have contact with other countries, for example with the Netherlands. I hope that, before the summer recess, we will be able to develop actions and finalise a number of concrete measures on the basis of the social partners' proposals from the construction sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, we must tackle social fraud and social dumping in the construction sector, along the lines you set out. But fraud and dumping are only part of the problem. There is also competition with legal employment from Eastern Europe. You are awaiting the proposals of the social partners in the sector. I do not need to stress that many low-skilled workers work in the construction sector. Moreover, there are a lot of colored workers in the sector, which I also welcome. I would like to make two points. Firstly, there is absolutely the problem of high wage costs, for which you have already taken the necessary measures. Perhaps we can pay extra attention to this for the construction sector. Secondly, the European Posting of Workers Regulation must be looked at on its merits in order, as you said, to tackle abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u5	Minister, my question about night work was tabled some time ago. I have therefore updated it on the basis of some government announcements that have been made since then. Thanks to the Internet, it is possible today to shop in his armchair in the evening and to receive his purchases a few hours later. This necessarily leads to special staffing needs for e-commerce companies. Belgium seems to be lagging behind in this regard, since, despite an attractive geographical position in Europe, a large number of companies are considering the possibility of relocation of their e-commerce activities outside the country. Indeed, it appears that 60% of the e-commerce market in Belgium is captured by our neighbours since the law prohibits work between 8 p.m. and 6 p.m. for the retail sector. Of course, and I agree, it is not a question of opening the door to abuses of any kind, but of allowing our companies to remain competitive with neighbouring countries. We need to evolve with our time. Allowing the preparation of packages during the night in order to be able to ensure their delivery the next day is necessary for e-commerce in Belgium to develop, with the creation of jobs and wealth at the key for our country, it is not necessary to demonstrate it! Minister, a start-up plan has recently been initiated by the government. It is based on five points and the authorisation of night work for e-commerce-related activities is of course one of them. That's great news for the sector. Can you provide us with some clarification on the practical modalities of this measure? Has this plan been carried out in consultation with the sector, in order to define the priorities of companies in the field of night work? Have you conducted any consultations? When will this measure actually be effective? Do you know the ins and outs of it well? Do you really know the needs? Can you confirm to me the figure of 60% of the e-commerce market relocated to our neighbours? How many jobs will this measure allow night work to generate? Mr Minister, I would like you to take stock of this issue, which I believe is extremely important in view of the new technologies and the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u6	Minister, this question is in line with a question about the rules on night work for e-commerce that Patricia Ceysen has already put to you in plenary. E-commerce is an important activity that booms. More and more people order via the internet and less via ordinary shops and department stores. If we miss that train, many jobs in Belgium are likely to be lost in favour of neighbouring countries such as the Netherlands. One of the main fundamental problems in this area is the prohibition of night work for such activities between 20h 00 and 6h 00. I understand that this was discussed during the latest budgetary control. There would be an action plan coming up. My question was put earlier, so perhaps it is behind the facts. Can you give me an update, Minister? What are the prospects? Has this been discussed with Comeos and the social partners? The most appropriate legal solution seems to me to be a royal decision to resolve this problem. Is that how you're gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u7	This theme was also discussed in the Seventh Day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u8	In the meantime, Minister, this question has been largely overtaken by the facts, as it was submitted months ago. In the meantime, an initial initiative has already been taken to establish a platform for cooperation between the public authorities and the e-commerce sector. It is hoped that concrete measures will be proposed in the very near future, which will then have to be implemented very quickly by the government. This is what Belgian e-commerce is longing for, as it is currently highly competitive from our neighbouring countries. In the Digital Belgium programme, the government itself already refers to making night work more flexible in that sector, as well as to the need for a more growth-oriented assessment, better online payment options and solutions to the logistical challenges. Despite the delay of more than two months between the submission of my question and your answer, my questions remain pertinent. Minister, what proposals did Comeos make besides the story of night work? What further steps will be taken? When will you sit with Comeos and the social partners to discuss the problem of night work within e-commerce? What timetable are you putting forward to find a solution to the legislation on night work so that jobs can stay here and new jobs can be created?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u9	Mr President-in-Office, I have made my question a little more general. My question concerns flexible working hours, working hours and work organisation. We have also included a paragraph on this in the government agreement. A few weeks ago, the VBO called for flexible working hours. Mr Secretary, what is the status of this dossier? Is that discussed with the social partners or are you working on a draft law yourself? If so, when can we expect that bill in Parliament? With regard to flexible work organisation, I would like to point out that it is important for my group to take account of the fact that two people work in the families of Flanders, mostly men and women. However, our current work hours regulations and work organisation still stem from the time of the household model, in which the man worked mostly outside the home. This new flexible work organisation law will also have to take account of this. Perhaps the workers should be given the freedom to take up their own career. I suggest that the Minister briefly reflect the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u10	Mr Clarinval has given his question No. 3225 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u11	Mr President, I will begin with Mr Demir's last question. We will implement the coalition agreement, including as far as flexibility is concerned. However, we still have some time to do so. Until now, we do not have a draft law that can be tabled in Parliament because we had to discuss other, more urgent draft laws first. But don't worry, we will take the necessary initiatives. With regard specifically to night work and e-commerce, we should be able to move forward by the summer thanks to strict timing. I've already met the employers' organizations involved. They have rightly put forward a number of elements, such as the principle ban on night work. Mr Lachaert has already said that we have to understand the work between 20:00 and 6:00. The Labour Act provides for statutory exceptions, which can also be taken by royal decree. In the context of budgetary control, the government decided to activate the discussion on night work. As far as e-commerce is concerned, it has already been decided. I will soon take an initiative and organise a round table with the social partners in the e-commerce logistics sector. We will do so very widely, with the aim of establishing working conditions, in particular the adjustment of night work, preferably through a royal decision. This round table will continue on 5 May. We will look into the approach of the social partners in order, hopefully, to implement the aspirations of several members of this committee by means of a royal decision, but also the decision taken in the context of budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u12	No one wants the word for a reply? Minister, that was a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u13	Mrs Willaert has her question No. 1924 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u14	Mr President, I would like to withdraw my question because it is no longer topical and we have put a great deal of time and energy into the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u15	Very well, that puts pressure on your fellow Members. Mr Hedebouw, are you of the same opinion? You may, of course, ask your question, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u16	Even if it is a very interesting question, I shall also drop it, Mr President. I have other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u17	That's what we're waiting for. That's why we came.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u18	It's called being a sport.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u19	Mr President, I would just like to take this opportunity to remind you of the commitment of the Planning Bureau, which would provide an updated analysis by the end of March with new figures, which would include the measures that would have been taken as an opinion for the Supreme Court of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u20	The secretary will write a letter to remind the Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u21	Mr President, I wonder if my question is not already relevant because I would like the minister to tell me in which sectors the wages will be indexed in April, and possibly in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u22	So you asked your question, Mr. Massin?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u23	Yes! It is simple and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u24	Checks must be made. If you agree, I will forward the answer to the secretary. I'll give you the answer as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u25	Tomorrow, in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u26	I will give you the answer as soon as possible. If I do not, I understand that a topical question will be asked in plenary session!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u27	But you're not delaying the answer in two months? Otherwise it's easy to act that way with all the questions that fall...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u28	You will have the answer tomorrow, before the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament 1977 by Mrs Evita Willaert has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Clarinval's 1995 question has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u30	Mr President, Minister, not much has been said about this. The conditions under which employees can claim time credit from their employer are determined by the social partners in collective agreement No. 103 of the National Labour Council. According to the Federal Government Agreement, the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014 made several amendments to the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001, which regulates the granting of interruption benefits. To sum it up well, the collective agreement No. 103 determines when one is entitled to leave to receive an interruption allowance, but it is the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 which determines when one is actually receiving an interruption allowance from the RVA. Some adjustments were made. The unmotivated forms of time-credit have disappeared and the motivated forms of time-credit have been expanded. The original Royal Decree was amended by the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, but collective agreement No. 103, which regulates the leave itself, has not been adjusted so far. There is a considerable inconsistency between the worker's right to remain absent and his right to an interruption allowance. Minister, I have three questions for you. Do you recognise that there is an inconsistency between the two texts, the royal decree and the collective agreement, and that in practice there is a problem that cannot be ignored? Do you have a look at the discussions between the social partners at the National Labour Council about collective agreement No. 103 change and eliminate the inconsistency? Within what time limit can this happen and how will it be done? What will you do if the social partners fail to adapt this in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u31	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, the problem must indeed be resolved as quickly as possible. I'll recapitulate. The time-credit scheme consists of two shutters. There is the right to leave governed by collective agreement No. 103, on the one hand, and the right to interrupted benefits during the leave provided for by the Royal Decree of 12 December 2001 on the other. In principle, there is a parallelism between the right to leave and the right to benefit. Until recently, the regulations had been drawn up in this sense and in most cases the employee enjoyed interruption benefits during the time-credit. However, in implementation of the government agreement, the Royal Decree on Benefits was amended from 1 January 2015 through the Royal Decree of 30 December 2014, while the right to leave itself, which is governed by collective agreement No. 103, not yet amended. The collective agreement No. 103 is the instrument of the social partners in the National Labour Council. That is a problem which you are quite right to raise. As a result, there are currently a number of discrepancies between the right to leave and the right to benefits. On the one hand, all leave possibilities remain within the scope of collective agreement No. 103 in principle, but in a number of situations there is no longer a right to benefits during leave. On the other hand, it is not possible to use the extension from 36 months to 48 months of the entitlement to benefits in the case of reasoned time-credit for care as long as the right to leave is not extended in collective agreement No. 103. So there are two problems. The National Labour Council is currently adjusting collective agreement No. 103 as a result of recent changes in the right to interrupted benefits. As a result of this question, I will urge the National Labour Council to settle this as soon as possible. After all, I understand that the conversations are not going smoothly, so as to be careful. However, both employers and employees have an interest in ensuring that matters are dealt with as quickly as possible. I think it would be wise to give the National Labour Council a moment's notice of collective agreement No. 103 and I will also give the clear signal that the discrepancy must be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the clarity, recognition of the problem and the encouragement of the social partners. Most people will no longer take the unmotivated form of time credit if there is no benefit. We have extended the RB with a time-credit with a specific motive; it would be a pity if the social partners did not come to a solution which would not allow this arrangement to be used. We are following this up and hope with you that the social partners will quickly adapt collective agreement No. 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103 coming! 103
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u33	We hope so, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u34	Mr Minister, my question is actually about temporary employment. A study carried out by the Employment and Social Economy Support Centre shows that in Flanders fewer employees with a temporary contract are employed compared to the European countries. The study talks about 6,6% or about 154 000 employees. It is striking that temporary contracts are well established in the EU15 countries. In these countries, the average is 14%, whereas in us it is 6.6 %. Temporary work contracts can also be a form of flexibility or flexible work organisation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what do you think is the reason why so little such contracts are being used in Belgium? What is the impact of the introduction of the single statute on part-time employment, in particular the abolition of the pilot period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u35	Mrs Demir, first of all, as you yourself have done, we must distinguish between part-time employment and temporary employment. I understand from the context of your question that it concerns temporary employment, namely employment with a fixed-term contract. Firstly, temporary work is indeed less common in us than in most other EU countries. I believe that there are several explanations for this. For example, the share of interim work in us is smaller, although the possibilities for doing so have been extended over the past few years. However, it should be noted that a higher percentage of employees with a temporary contract with us would not choose to do so and would prefer to have a contract of indefinite duration. This represents 78% of temporary workers in our country compared with only 60% in France and 40% in the Netherlands. It seems, therefore, that, above all, voluntary temporary work is less common among us. A detailed comparison is not easy. Temporary work can be a way for the company to recruit quickly, to absorb an increase in demand, to replace an absent staff member etc. You also asked about the effect of, among other things, the abolition of the trial period. We will be able to deal with this in greater detail in the light of your specific question. Thirdly, and finally, as far as sectoral distribution is concerned, temporary work has been the highest in education, catering and other services in the last year, and much less in transport, public services and industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u36	The latter is interesting. Apart from that, the abolition of the trial period is indeed in the next question. It is logical that employees who can choose for themselves should opt for an indefinite contract, what would one be like? Any job seeker we can lead to the labour market is, of course, good. Experience is often gained through temporary contracts, and thanks to this experience a contract of indefinite duration may follow. Belgium is characterised by very strict legislation on temporary contracts. The 1978 Labour Contract Act provides that employers may issue only four consecutive fixed-term contracts for a maximum period of two years. Perhaps we should consider whether this provision has not become obsolete in the meantime. I understand that people prefer a contract of indefinite duration, but I do not think that we should slow down companies that, for example, can give a contract for temporary work, but are limited by the strict contract law. I'm just gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u37	Mr President, I have a question about the abolition of the pilot period under the unitary statute. We have had the debates here in Parliament. I was not in favour of abolishing the trial period, and our group explicitly opposed it for a number of reasons. Especially for the following reason: such a trial period is very good to recruit people. Because, of course, we don't know each other as a company or as an employee. The trial period is a kind of engagement period to get to know each other better, to see if there is a good match between the employee and the company culture. In this sense, I found it regrettable that the trial period that still exists in other countries has been abolished. After all, I see that as a way to give someone a chance. An employer who is in doubt about hiring someone has a less time limit with a trial period in order to make an effective recruitment. What turns out to be a year later? What can be seen and what can be seen from two studies, one by Robert Half and one by SD Worx? Companies rely more on interim work, student labour and temporary contracts. Our group had also predicted this. The question is primarily about giving opportunities from the point of view, and I am looking at difficult target groups in particular. Think, for example, of a manager who has doubts about recruiting an immigrant. Does it fit into corporate culture? The trial period can give people a chance. My question is very specific: when are we going to re-introduce this trial period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u38	In addition, the Law of 26 December 2013 on the establishment of a unitary statute between workers and servants introduced a number of provisions, including the abolition of probationary periods. That probation could have been a useful tool in the past, at least for servants. The social partners had, however, proposed an evaluation of the unitary status. In the federal government agreement, the government has also expressed its intention to review the reform of notice periods and the removal of probationary periods in order to avoid obstacles to recruitment policies and to ensure the employment of workers. As Mr Demir has said, a number of recent studies and media reports show that employers are less likely to offer a contract of employment for an indefinite duration and are more likely to go back to temporary work and contracts of employment in order to circumvent the abolition of probation. That must not have been the intention of this concession in the global package. Now that several studies have already shown that the abolition of the probationary period has an effect that was not estimated at the time of the introduction of the unitary status, and that there is less contract security for employees by seeking out other types of statutes and temporary contracts, will this lead the social partners to carry out a more rapid evaluation of the abolition of the probationary period? Are you prepared to resume that probation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we received the quarterly survey of Belgian SMEs from the WES Research and Strategy in February 2015. We don't have the other study in our possession, but we're trying to get it. The study of the WES is a questioning, a survey, and one should always be careful with that. Those who are scientifically trained know that there is a difference between a survey that can also be carried out in a scientific way and a scientific study. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that an evaluation will be carried out, in particular from the trial period, but also wider than that. The survey was also wider than over the trial period. The unitary statute law has abolished the trial period for all employment contracts, except for the student employment agreement and the contract of employment for the performance of temporary and temporary work. It was approved here and was the result of a difficult balance between many aspects. As far as I know, there are no scientific studies yet that have studied and mapped out the consequences of the abolition of the trial period. I think such analyses are necessary. The government has committed itself to conducting an evaluation. That trial period was abolished on 1 January 2014. That's pretty recent. I have some elements I would like to draw your attention to. The new general scheme on notice periods in the event of dismissal provides for relatively short deadlines during the first year of employment of the employee. This largely deprives the reason for the trial period. It was based on the idea that it is important to allow the parties to assess, during the initial phase of the employment relationship, whether it meets their respective aspirations and expectations and, where appropriate, to put an end to the employment relationship in the short term. In the new dismissal scheme, the parties to the contract of employment will still be able to consider the first moments of the employment relationship as a period for assessing the quality of their professional cooperation. If it turns out that it is not satisfying, both the employer and the employee will be able to unilaterally break the contract of employment by using the new shorter notice periods. Before the unitary statute law, the duration of the trial period of workers varied between seven and fourteen days. During this period, each of the parties could terminate the employment contract without notice or compensation after the minimum period of the first seven days. For the servants, the duration of the trial period ranged between one and six months for servants with an annual gross wage of up to EUR 38 665 or 12 months for those serving above. During this period, each of the parties could terminate the agreement with a notice period of seven days after the minimum period of the first month. Why am I saying all this? In the current system, the employment contract may be terminated by the employer during the first three months of employment, provided that a short notice period of two weeks is respected and a one-week notice period for the employee. I would just like to say that there are possibilities in the new system if the employment relationship was not to produce what was supposed to be. The period for assessing the employment relationship is therefore wider for a worker in the current system than in the pilot period under the old dismissal scheme. You've established that, too. For servants, the present system is more flexible, in the sense that the agreement may be terminated during the first month of the employment relationship. It is only after six months of employment that a servant's dismissal costs can be said to increase substantially. However, this finding is likely to have little impact in practice, since such a trial period was only possible for highly qualified servants. I understand that some say that abolishing the trial period has a negative effect on employment. That is a very valid element, to which we must listen seriously. Secondly, it is a balance which the social partners and the previous government had to deal with in the previous legislature. Thirdly, in this legislature, we said, on the basis of the coalition agreement, that we would make an assessment, in particular of the trial period, and that we would also like to implement that part of the coalition agreement, but also that we should know that the questioning is only one matter. I have it, but other studies aren't in my possession yet. We must act with due care and address the social partners in the right way, in order to prevent the whole from being questioned again. I understand that none of the questioners have that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I referred to the reason why we were against the abolition of the trial period during the previous legislature. I understood that this was part of a balance that had emerged from the social dialogue. However, we must also listen to the experience on the ground. For a politician it is good that he or she sometimes reads a scientific study. However, we must also descend from our ivory tower and listen to what SMEs tell us and listen to them. That's very clear. Over 80% of SMEs are much more cautious about recruitment. They pay close attention to whether or not to recruit. In the other case, they employed a person with a full contract of indefinite duration. There is also simply the fact that those involved are more in need of interim work and temporary contracts. This shows that they and we need to think carefully about whether we are going to re-introduce the trial period. I would like to stress that I am convinced that new Flemings, immigrants, are the first victims of the abolition of the trial period. We already have a very poor employment situation in that group. I have also pointed this out on several occasions, and there has often been a debate in the Chamber on this issue. However, the phenomenon of "unknown" is unloved... especially occurs in people of the second or third generation, like me. I hope that you can convince the social partners to make that group more known through a trial period, in order to get employers to give them a chance. It's very important to that group. I hope you can convince the social partners that the trial period will have to be properly evaluated. This is what is in the coalition agreement. With also need to pay due attention to the phenomenon of unfamiliarity is unloved and to the new Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. You will evaluate this later, together with the social partners. I have not yet seen a real scientific study, just surveys and press releases from professional federations and social secretariats. We don't know how they were taken away. I'm worried about this anyway. In our labour law there was a nice logic. We always assumed an employment contract for an indefinite period. They used to roll on probation. Now there might be something wrong. It has not yet been scientifically proven, but what Mrs Demir says is not taken out of the air. Some employers seem to be held back by the slightly longer notice periods that are now available. This used to be seven days. Now this becomes the first three months two weeks and then four weeks. A probation period of more than six months was not common. A notice period of more than seven days seems to prevent some employers from giving an employment contract of indefinite duration. They then seek refuge in temporary work and temporary employment contracts. That was not the intention of the social partners. They wanted to do something for the trade unions to give employees a permanent employment status more quickly in the form of an open-ended contract of employment. If it turns out that this is not the case, it should be possible to evaluate this. In fact, the social partners themselves should make that analysis. We should then come back to this committee over time and look at their analysis with the social partners. It will not have been the proposal of any of the social partners to do so in order to have fewer contracts of employment for an indefinite duration. If this is really proven statistically, then we will have to have the courage to evaluate it. I therefore propose that some time should be allowed to pass on this, but at some point the subject should be taken up again. In your contacts with the National Labour Council, you can have that theme dealt with and possibly scientifically analysed, in an objective manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u42	Mr Minister, I have two questions about the system of early retirement or unemployment with a single payment. I do not know whether I can get the answer to my first question in writing, because I think it is mainly about figures, but it can of course also be done orally. The general rule is that a worker with a bridge pension must be replaced, except in certain cases. Can you give an overview of the number of replacements over the past five years? You can also give me the answer in writing. What is the point of the replacement obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u43	Mrs Demir, we have, of course, requested the figures in response to your question and we have been informed that the RVA currently does not have data on the number of replacements under the single payment scheme. I assume that we will be able to answer that in the future. I come to your second question on the obligation to replace. I am convinced that this obligation still serves its purpose, because in some cases it leads to the employment of mainly young people. At the same time, we are also aware that employers will use the exemption from the obligation to replace where possible. It concerns a firm in difficulty or in restructuring, a structural reduction in the company's workforce or where there is no replacement available on the labour market. The logic is that employees in SWT have to be replaced, and this is mainly about young people, and that in certain circumstances there is an exemption from that obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u44	It's bizarre that the RVA doesn't have that data. In practice, as a lawyer in labour law, I find that if companies want to resign, they first look at the cheapest way, to the SWT. I welcome the fact that the government has reviewed the system and raised age and other limits. That's very positive. In practice, a person is fired in the most cheap way, which makes sense. Afterwards people will find out that they have to be replaced. A company doesn't work like that. One looks at who one needs and what the point is. It's not subsidised employment. One might do that with the government, but in a private company someone is fired via SWT, because that is cheap. After that one finds that one has to replace it, when one does not need anyone. One of the reasons for dismissal is just less work. Then the obligation weighs very heavily. In practice, I find that employers opt for a fine rather than recruiting someone. That is why I am asking whether the obligation is useful? An administrative fine is cheaper than the cost of recruiting someone. Is that a smart move? Of course, we want more jobs, and the government will also do so, including by tackling the biggest problem, namely high wage costs. However, the question is whether compulsory replacement is a useful instrument. Perhaps it is more of a bullying measure than encouraging companies to recruit workers. I am just passing it along, because in practice employers often opt for a fine and the measure obviously lacks its purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u45	Mrs Evita Willaert has her question No. 2222 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u46	Minister, we are increasingly reading and hearing about burn-out and psychological and psychological problems of workers. The figures are also dramatic. In the case of people who are unfit for work, this is due to one in three problems of this kind. If we find that their number has increased by more than 25% in five years, we are faced with enormous problems. I have heard you talk a number of times in plenary about a win-win-win situation, but I think that we are really in a loss-loss situation here, both for the workers, for whom this often causes real personal problems, and for social security, which is a financial burden, which will only increase with the whole debate on longer working hours, and for the employer, who will face operational problems if those people need to be replaced. A new approach has recently emerged from employers' organisations, but also from other opinions, in this whole debate on the balance between work and leisure. That is one of the most determining factors for these psychological problems. In this context, it has been said that it is crucial to know how work and the workplace are organised. However, we must also dare to admit that life, both private and social, is becoming more and more hectic and that there is an ever-growing cause of burn-outs and mental overload. That sheds new light on this debate. Hence my questions. To what extent does the policy in general already take into account this work-life balance, the balance between work and leisure? Are there any contacts with the field, the social partners or other actors to develop measures? Has it been specifically discussed or are you thinking of measures that focus not only on the workplace and work organisation, but also on private and social life? Is, even more specifically, a campaign of sensitization on this subject conceivable? Is such a thing within the scope?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u47	Mr Spooren, you mention a very important topic, including politicians. You are right, protecting the physical and mental health and safety of workers is a fundamental objective which I, as Minister for Employment too, wish to further achieve. An essential feature is that in all scientific texts the burn-out is also related to work. One can of course get a burn-out in other ways, for example by exercising too much, but most burn-outs are clearly connected to the work. According to the welfare legislation, which was only amended in 2014, the employer is obliged to take the necessary measures to prevent psychosocial risks at work. The FOD WASO informs employers and employees about the causes, consequences and measures that can be taken. For example, tools and tools are offered that have been developed in the framework of research into psychosocial risks at work, with important financial support from the European Social Fund for psychosocially related problems and for musculoskeletal diseases. For these musculoskeletal diseases, a national campaign for the general public was launched in 2013 and 2014, focusing on psychosocial risk derivatives. The social impact of the burn-out phenomenon must be further investigated, so that the private and social context can also be identified. In this respect, the Minister for Health and the various competent Communities will also take initiatives. Also interesting is the prevention coaches project, which fits within the Flemish Action Plan Suicide Prevention. The aim of this project is to reduce prevalence rates of depression and suicide. The development of mental health policy in the working environment is at a pivotal point between different competences, linking to HRM policy and the law on well-being. There has been a discussion on this between my administration and Minister Vandeurzen's cabinet. My administration will continue to monitor the results and evaluation of this pilot project. If this project proves to be a useful tool, we will look at the methodology and the tool and will also be examined how we can boost it by promoting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u48	You say that a burnout is always connected to work, and of course it is. On the basis of new insights, we have to admit that, when we talk about the work-life balance, the aspect of life must also be considered. In other words, the problem is always work-related but not just work-related. Consequently, part of the responsibility lies with the employer, but not only with the employer. We must therefore have the courage to look at this issue, which will become increasingly important, in a broader context.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u49	Minister, this is a four-yearly theme. At the beginning of our sitting, I have already heard that we may be going into more detail next week. The four-yearly organisation of the social elections should set the thresholds for the establishment of a works council. The Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work is set up from 50 employees in the company. When presenting your policy paper on 26 November 2014, you announced that the current thresholds of 100 employees for the works council and 50 employees for the committee on prevention and protection at work will be maintained. This was somewhat reassuring for many, but, of course, there will only be effective legal certainty when the legislative initiative is discussed here. Mr. Secretary, can you give us a hint of the veil? Will the social elections of 2016 be subject to the same limits as the previous social elections? In addition, do you intend to set the threshold only for the 2016 social elections, as is customary, or will you decide to fix that number definitively at 100? You would immediately be the prime minister of labor, who does that. After all, this theme returns every four years, and each time a new initiative is needed to set the threshold.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u50	Mr Lachaert, pursuant to Article 14 of the Act of 20 September 1948 on the organisation of business, the election of employees' representatives on the works councils must be organised in companies which normally employ an average of at least 50 employees. In the context of a phased reduction of the threshold to 50 employees, the Royal Decree traditionally set the threshold at 150, and then at 100 employees. However, following the law on the organisation of the 2008 social elections, the Council of State commented on that tradition. Following this, the social partners in the Group of Ten agreed to maintain the threshold of 100 employees before the 2008 social elections. The same thing happened before the 2012 social elections. In order to comply with the opinion of the Council of State, the derogation threshold of 100 employees was laid down by law, last time by the Act of 28 July 2011, with an application limited to the 2012 social elections. In the context of the preparation of the 2016 social elections, the question arises again. Since the opinions of the National Labour Council in view of the 2016 social elections do not contain any proposal on the reduction of the threshold of 100 employees and the Group of Ten has since not expressed a opinion on the issue, the threshold of 100 employees was retained before the 2016 social elections and registered in a draft law, which we will soon be discussing in committee. I understand that will be possible on 6 May. In the absence of advice to that effect, it was not stipulated that the derogation threshold would become the basic rule for all future elections. I always feel addressed when I might be able to do something historic, but given the sensitivities and the advice of the National Labour Council, I will have to hold back and possibly make historical actions in other areas, which are presented to me by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your historic words, and I hope to have many good things to do with you over the next few years, whether historically or not. I understand that the thresholds remain at the same level as in the previous social elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u52	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of February the Brussels appeal court delivered the following ruling in a dispute between employers and trade unions: "Stacking is a right, but workers must not be stopped from going to work." The government and the employers have agreed to the social agreement and wish to implement it. The ACV and the ACLVB also agreed to this social agreement. Yet they, together with the ABVV, occasionally take action. During the strike days of late 2014, roads, businesses and shops were blocked. People who provide work and take risks to create prosperity are thus undermined and discouraged with enormous economic damage. People who are not members of a union and do not receive strike money have been denied wages for several days because their company or shop could not be entered because of these blockades. Will you ask the trade unions to comply with the rulings of the Brussels Court of Appeal? If so, when? If not, why not? Will you work with the Council of Ministers to draw up a plan so that our employees can get to work on announced strike days? How can you continue to convince entrepreneurs to comply with agreements, while others are threatening to ignore them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I withdraw my question and I will briefly explain why. I think it is very sensible that the Christian trade union should regard the strike as a heavy weapon and say that one should think carefully before using it. I fully agree with that. I have heard that no majority has been found in the socialist trade union to take strike action against a government that is taking full action to create jobs. For these reasons, I withdraw my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u54	Mr President, I can be quite brief. If I am not mistaken, Mr Lachaert also asked me a question in plenary about the right to strike versus the right to work. In my reply I specifically mentioned the gentlemen's agreement, which made a number of agreements between the social partners. I trust that they will be met to the maximum. I therefore refer to my answer to Mr Lachaert's question in plenary, and I hope that Mr Janssen will be able to satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u55	Minister, I am pleased with that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u56	Mr President, a few weeks ago we discussed the subject in detail in committee, and I withdraw my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u57	Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the second part of my question. In plenary, we have already had a debate on, among other things, discrimination against service cheque companies, as demonstrated by the study of the Minority Forum. My question, however, focuses mainly on what was agreed in the coalition agreement. The government agreement provides for a quantified objective for the public sector, through the method of socio-economic monitoring to be developed by the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue. With this we follow the example of Flanders, where the target for people from ethnic-cultural minorities is now even 10%. At federal level, the objective still needs to be fully developed. In the meantime, what is the status of the commitment from the coalition agreement? In the meantime, has the FOD WASO had a monitoring tool developed? There was already a first pilot phase. What timing is further agreed? What target would be used and when would it be introduced? Do we still need to discuss this? In short, what is the state of play on that point in the coalition agreement? It was also agreed in the government agreement that a dialogue for the private sector would be initiated within the framework of social dialogue. Have you taken any initiatives on this? What other measures could you take to combat discrimination? What instruments do you provide for the government, the administration and the inspection?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u58	Ms Lanjri, the Employment, Labour and Social Affairs Office, published a socio-economic monitoring in 2013, in collaboration with the then Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against racism. This monitoring was intended to highlight the position of persons on the labour market according to their origin or historical migration. I also refer to the government agreement to set a quantified target for the federal government through the socio-economic monitoring method. As a result of your question, my administration has indicated that this can be done technically. However, the establishment of the objective falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of Civil Service. However, we want to cooperate fully in this. I also believe that there have already been a number of contacts in this area in order to finalise this in accordance with the coalition agreement. Mr President, I shall now turn to the final question which can also be debated at another time. Discrimination in the labour market is a serious problem that we want to tackle seriously. We will continue to do so, as was stated at the hearing with the Secretary of State and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u59	Minister, I do not think you have answered my question about social dialogue with the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u60	I didn't get that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u61	The government agreement agreed to set a good example as a government itself in terms of targets. I understand that you will do this together with the Minister of Civil Service. The government agreement also agreed to take initiatives in this area for the private sector through social dialogue. Have you taken initiatives in this area in the social dialogue, or is it still necessary to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u62	This point had slipped my mind for a moment. In the context of the sectoral consultation which is now under way, we will write to all the chairmen of the Joint Committees to urge them to pay particular attention to this during the consultations. Of course, I can't do it all at once. We will also examine with the interprofessional partners whether further work is needed. I am convinced of that, but we need to see how we can proceed with the social partners at an interprofessional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 2302 by Mrs Wilmès has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u64	Minister, I realise that my question about the resumption of progressive work lies at the border between your competence and that of Mrs De Block, but I am glad to be able to ask you for an expert answer. In 1991, the system of progressive work resumed. In doing so, persons with a long-term illness that is stable and under control may resume work and combine it with a sickness benefit. It's worked for 24 years, but I've been told it's not used enough and too little is known. You said in your policy paper that this should be optimised because of a number of shortcomings. Minister, how many people are using the system? I've heard there aren't many, but how many are there? Are concrete actions planned to promote the system among employers and long-term sick people? Do you already have plans to make the necessary clarifications in labour law and at what time? What conclusions do you draw, perhaps in consultation with your colleague, with regard to new initiatives to promote the integration of long-term sick people?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u65	You yourself have said that some of your questions fall within the competence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. I will confine myself to my powers. As you know, my policy paper explicitly focused on this progressive resumption of work. The reintegration of disabled persons into the labour market is and remains an important target. You're right about that. The focus should be on the activities that an employee is still able to do. It is not enough just to adapt social security regulations. In order to ensure the success of a reintegration process, it is also necessary to create a clear framework in the field of labour law so that the disabled worker and his employer are encouraged to enter such a pathway. At the moment, labour law does not provide sufficient guidance to cover and organise a progressive resumption of work and a possible adjustment of the employment post of the disabled worker. This creates a legal uncertainty both for the employer and for the employee, which can have the effect of inhibiting employees and employers to carry out this very sensible reintegration process. I assume that it is necessary to lay down the rights and obligations of the employer and the employee as precisely as possible in the field of employment law. After all, it is not enough for the employee to be allowed by the medical adviser to resume the work progressively. There must also, of course, be an agreement between the employee and the employer on the nature and modalities of the resumption of work. Within the National Labour Council, within the framework of the platform "Return to work', these very important and complex issues are addressed by social partners and institutional actors. Together with the Minister for Social Affairs, taking into account the work of the platform "Return to work', we are working on the principles and implementation of which to accompany those who become disabled to work again through a multidisciplinary approach and in collaboration with the doctors and various other stakeholders. This means that an appropriate solution will be provided, inter alia, from labour law for those wishing to perform part-time work in accordance with social security provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u66	Do I receive the figures in writing, Minister, or do you not have any figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u67	I haven't gotten those numbers yet. As soon as I have them, I'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the introduction to my question is a little dated, especially in February. In the meantime, we have already had the media storm around this theme. So this matter is no less topical, which is why I am asking my question. Minister, I have the feeling that you or this government are not reading or not following the studies of the KCE, a federal research institute. With regard to the support of carers, the KCE has made a number of important recommendations for full support and for safeguarding the social rights of carers, especially for the well-known sandwich generation. However, the KCE also says that we have to be very careful about the matthew effect, in the sense that it must not happen that the most vulnerable carers, read the job-seekers, are the most severely affected. Do you agree with me that I know the answer to this question, because you have already answered them in the press that carers are important and that we need these helping hands in care? Are you prepared to follow the advice of the CCE on social rights and to do so in full? Are the measures taken by the federal government not at odds with the measures taken by Minister Vandeurzen, and with the great commitment to the socialisation of care and the promises to support care very much? I will drop the question about the job-seekers, because you have already stated that you would rectify that situation. However, I am replacing them with another question. I myself tabled a bill with a full option for safeguarding social rights. Do you feel comfortable supporting this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u70	It is true that our questions date a little and that since then the government has acted on them. As in other cases, I think he was mistaken by haste and ideology. I had asked you earlier whether you were planning to meet with representatives of close caregivers who were concerned about the measures you had decided on, including those relating to parents who do not work under a contract of employment but work within the framework of their family by helping a sick child or relative. This is part of a series of measures that have been decided by the government and which must allow limited savings but have a very heavy social impact. How many people are affected by this measure? Does the government intend to go back? That seems to be the case. Could you describe your solution in this regard? As Ms. Dedry said, we have tabled bills that provide a more structural approach to the issue, in addition to the text that was passed at the end of the past legislature to create the status of close caregiver. It is not enough to have a statute, it is necessary to have the rights associated with it. That's our conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, like my colleagues, unfortunately the questions are a bit old. You're gonna tell me you're not responsible, but neither are we. First of all, I would like to congratulate you. From time to time, we send flowers, but the pots will come after, don't worry. The flowers, first of all, is to have acknowledged your mistakes and to have abandoned the starting position which was to punish the close caregivers who were unemployed. I would like to remind you that you are planning a savings of EUR 12 million. Do you maintain this economy? I don't think so. You have issued a new royal decree specifying that close unemployed carers will soon enjoy rights identical to those of active people who use time credits motivated to care for a loved one. I'm relatively happy with this royal decree. However, I would like to ask you a few small explanations. You say that it is necessary to be able to care for a seriously ill relative if it is to provide palliative care or if it is to care for a disabled child under the age of 21, or if it is to care for a household member or a family member up to the second degree. The unemployed could therefore benefit from a monthly amount of 266 euros, which would then increase to 216 euros. They will be entitled to a maximum of 48 months in close care. You indicate "by analogy with active persons who can also take 48 months of motivated time credit". In order to be clear, it would be appropriate to specify the arrangements for persons to care for a person with a disability. The status is unequivocal for those under 21 years of age, but for those over 21 years of age, the measures will lead to discriminatory treatment. In view of the reference to "family member to the second degree", there are many different family compositions. Have you considered all the possibilities? It was clarified that this could be up to 72 months. However, you have reduced up to 48 months. If you really wanted to go back to the ideological decision of principle, which was underpinned by the government, that is to say, to return to the previous situation, the simplest would have been to return directly to 72 months and not to stop at 48 months, unless it was justified by budgetary reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u72	Mr Minister, I have already left out a number of questions which have already been answered, for which I thank you. CD&V greatly appreciates when people do volunteering, especially when that work consists of assisting others. That is why we believe it is very important to support carers in every way possible. In that sense, I am pleased that you have found a solution for job seekers, exempting them from actively looking for work. I still have a few questions. Does the measure apply from 1 January 2015? How many people made use of the scheme on average until the end of last year? How many people are we talking about today? What evolution have we established for the past five years? Is it a growing group or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u73	Minister, the questions tabled are somewhat dated. This case is emblematic of the ideological blindness with which the government tried to tackle the issue of activation of the unemployed, who are generally perceived as profitors. It is so true that the government has taken the step too far. The idea of presenting them as profitors was so dominant that the government was reckless when only a small category had moved public opinion. Of course, I welcome this step backwards, even if I would have liked it to be extended to other measures imposed. I consider that all unemployed workers are not profitors, regardless of their living conditions. So these are my questions. Why didn't you just go back to the previous legislation? Then, do you intend to take further steps backwards on other important areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u74	Mr Minister, I intended, quite frankly, to withdraw my question. Since nobody does, I will give a brief explanation. In the meantime, the government has addressed the problem of carers who want to further support the federal coalition partners. I agree with your communication. That's all I really have to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u75	That was very helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u76	Mr President, I do not know why my question No 2787 has been added to this series of interventions on close caregivers when it concerns pre-pension. In this case, I think I have said everything in my first speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u77	The questions have indeed been merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u78	Minister, my question is beyond the scope of the Royal Order. It deals with the radical abolition of availability exemptions for social and family reasons, which were previously granted to unemployed close caregivers. The text confused reform with brutality. As much as I agree with the fact that false motives cannot be accepted, I believe that the investments provided by close caregivers must be measured. I had submitted a proposal to you. Then you changed the royal decree, and I can only rejoice at the attention you have shown to the close caregivers. I would like to extend the scope of the discussion. In addition to the royal decree, close caregivers should be mentioned as such. These were, of course, recognised in 2014, but this recognition looks like an empty shell, since the State does not grant them any concrete rights. I know, minister, that you have met the associations that defend them. I had pleaded in that regard. Through my question, I wanted to know what measures you were considering following these meetings. It came back to me that several proposals had been discussed. Where are we? What will be the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u79	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to make a small addition. First of all, Minister, you have already indicated yourself that the abolition of the exemption for unemployed carers was an accident and that you have already corrected this unintended situation. When will the Royal Decree to do the correction appear or has it already appeared? Where appropriate, that question shall lapse. Secondly, the benefit provided, especially after adding what was not previously the case, that a medical certificate is required, is quite low. Is it therefore effective enough? Mr President, we have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, in which we will increase the benefits of the carers to the level of unemployment benefit. Do you think it is appropriate to increase these benefits at least to the normal amount of unemployment benefits? Thirdly, Mr Lachaert wishes to join the Minister's communication on the dossier. So what about the pension rights that carers can build, which you have proposed in the press, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u80	Mr President, first of all, I thank Mr Massin for his congratulations. I hope this isn't the last time he'll address me. For the sake of clarity, Mr Kitir, the Royal Decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 22 April 2015. As you know, it will have effect with retroactive effect from 1 January 2015. So that's settled. Mrs Fonck, you are right, the situation is not only settled by royal decree. We have other concerns. You mentioned the problem of pensions. This matter falls within the competence of my colleague, Mr Bacquelaine, but the government has decided to find solutions to this issue and we are trying to make a proposal on pensions related to this issue. There is also the question of insurance. As far as insurance is concerned, we are also trying to find an adequate solution for close caregivers. We're still working on that. It is therefore not the case that we should confine ourselves to the Royal Decree on the unemployed. We are also working on other points. We have spoken to the people who have committed this, including people from the KCE. We also make agreements with the regional level. You yourself referred to Mr Vandeurzen. I hope that this committee and all my fellow Members will feel very clearly that we are taking the problem seriously, that we are also taking decisions and that we are trying to organise it further through a number of discussions. We are also trying to make progress in the consultations with the regions of Italy, Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. Mr Lanjri, here are the exact figures. At the end of 2014, 6 000 people were affected, 80% of whom were childcare workers and 20% by family care. That amounts to 1 200 people. In the media everything was thrown into a pile. It would be 6 000 carers, which is not right. Mr Massin, I hope you have understood me well: we have introduced the same grounds for the unemployed and for time credits. Given your question about the old system, which lasts 72 months, we found that 80% of people are in this situation, especially for childcare. We have drafted the new system from the point of view of care, where it is necessary to organize the measures contained in the Royal Decree. But we have tried to organise the same system for both the unemployed and the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u81	Mr President, I would like to raise two further concerns. In any case, working carers in this system are declining, even though the motivated time loan has been extended by 12 months. For a number of situations that was already 48 months. However, there is also 12 months less benefit for unmotivated time credit. Research shows that, for example, parents who care for a child with disabilities first exhaust their motivated time credits and then take unmotivated time credits to further absorb that concern. So they haven't really improved. You have not answered my question whether my bill can inspire you to go for the full option.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u82	Mrs Dedry, I am always inspired by everyone who makes good proposals, do not worry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u83	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I agree on the various aspects of pensions and insurance. It would be good to pay attention to the self-employed and to ensure that they have similar leave. In addition, I draw your attention to two decisions which have been taken and which very strongly penalize close caregivers for whom these decisions amount to a setback. Apart from politics, these measures should be studied. On the one hand, there is a need to look at motivated time credits. It went from 36 to 48 months. Previously, those who cared for a close caregiver and who continued to invest at the part-time professional level were able to take their time credits in proportion to their part-time work. Today, we have gone to 48 months, but this is a major step backwards for those who read and courageously maintained their professional investment by combining it with their role as close helper. Should we not – this is a proposal – work on a motivated credit-time for close caregivers, on the basis of the law that recognized them in 2014, accompanied by a precise justification? This could allow their part-time professional investment to be extended proportionately. On the other hand, the fact that the time credits were completely abolished without reason raises questions. Indeed, for a number of them who do not necessarily fall within the specific categories of the motives, we find ourselves in a difficult situation. They can no longer benefit from a time credit without reason even though they are close caregivers. The proposal that I make to have a specific time credit for close caregivers would allow us to take account of the decline in the two regulatory changes. In recent years, I have heard all parties, whether in opposition or in the majority, plead for close caregivers. I would like to see an assessment of the measures you have taken. I think you did not necessarily assess the direct impact that this could have on close caregivers. It seems to me possible to put in place something constructive that is not over-budgeted. It is also the role of the State to measure quality investment, which is as important for close caregivers as it can be in working life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u85	We know that a number of changes have been made, but I would like to emphasise that we are satisfied. It is true that the unmotivated time loan has been abolished, but, on the other hand, the motivated time loan for care has been extended by one year; that can also be said. It is also good that for the unemployed who are working for a sick person, who want to provide medical and family assistance to a sick family member, the possibility of continuing these concerns has been retained and that they cannot be temporarily called upon to apply actively. Moreover, it also counts for their pension. I would like to thank the Minister for seeking that solution and I hope that the government can make corrections if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u86	Mr Minister, some colleagues have congratulated you, but do not rejoice too quickly. There was a correction, but it's a pity you didn't hear us from the start, when we told you there was a problem. Nevertheless, this correction leads to a more difficult situation today than it was yesterday for the people concerned! You mentioned the figure of 6,000 people, 80 per cent of whom care for children and 20 per cent who care for older people. For us, we need permanent status for these people. If, for example, we have a disabled child, it is unfortunately for life! How can we justify limiting this ability to take care of one's child, for example on a part-time basis, to a specific period of time? A step has been taken, it is a good thing, but it is far from ambitions and needs! As my colleague Dedry said, the bill we have tabled, particularly with Mrs Gerkens, envisages giving permanent rights to close caregivers as long as the problematic situation for which we are personally involved exists. It is in this sense that we must move forward. Rather than taking rights away from people as you do systematically, we need to move our social legislation forward towards more solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u87	Minister, I am glad that the error has been corrected, because the questions are indeed a little dated. I am also pleased that you acknowledge that the work has not yet been completed and that much remains to be done with regard to insurance and pensions. I understand that the political discussions have not yet been completed, so I will question you on this at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u88	Mr President, Mr Minister, the use of the European directive on the posting of workers is, as you know, often diverted and leads to many abuses unfortunately very rarely punished. We have already had the opportunity to talk about the shortcomings of the directive, the case law of the Court of Justice, the lack of ambition of the Commission and of certain Member States which have enabled some to undermine our social Europe. Today, in the absence of common European safeguards and social standards, the free movement of services has replaced unfair competition between European workers and between Member States, which sometimes leads to situations worthy of human exploitation. The problem is not freedom of movement, but the way in which it has been transvestite by a few. It is therefore urgent for Europe to take measures to combat these abuses and to put an end to this situation of social dumping. Under the previous legislature, Belgium was particularly active in combating this social dumping by organising a Benelux social summit. At the end of the summit, the Benelux members agreed on a number of actions, including the conclusion within the Benelux of a Treaty on cross-border cooperation. Today, the European Commission, through Marianne Thyssen, decided to sue Belgium before the Court of Justice of the European Union for the measures taken by the Di Rupo government to combat social dumping. How do you feel about this commission's action? Moreover, according to your colleague Tommelein, the fight against social dumping remains a priority for the government. Unfortunately, when I ask either the Prime Minister or your Finance colleague about the debriefing of the Council or Ecofin, I see that this is rarely on the agenda and that this is not the priority. Is it otherwise at the EPSCO where you sit? Is this a topic on the agenda? What measures are you going to take at European level so that the freedom of movement of European workers does not lead to a reduction in their social protection? Finally, what are the consequences of the Benelux Social Summit? What is the status of the implementation of the actions that have been decided upon? When do you think the Treaty on cross-border cooperation will come into being? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u89	Over the past seven years, the number of bankruptcies in the construction sector has almost doubled, from 1,042 bankruptcies in 2007 to 2,030 today. The Confederation of Construction estimates that if job losses continue at the same rate, 40,000 jobs will have disappeared by 2019. In addition to the lack of growth, more and more foreign companies and workers are causing serious competition problems in the Belgian market. Indeed, the construction sector is, by its characteristics, particularly exposed to the risk of social fraud. According to ONSS, the number of foreign workers employed in the construction sector in Belgium has quadrupled since 2007. In 2007, 23,962 foreign employees were employed in the construction sector, compared with 101,172 workers coming to Belgium today. In a sector with a total workforce of 200,000, this represents almost 50%. During your visit to Batibouw on 26 February, you reaffirmed, and I am pleased to say that you are supporting the construction sector. You have also committed yourself to continuing the fight against social fraud by quickly transposing the new implementing directive in order to counter the illegal use of the secondment technique. According to Robert de Mûelenaere, Chief Executive Officer of the Construction Confederation, the main problem is that our social inspections lack resources, including bilateral agreements to obtain information on this type of practice. The 2015 action plan to combat social fraud and social dumping states that you will work on new cooperation agreements with "at-risk countries", in collaboration with Secretary of State Bart Tommelein and the relevant ministers. Do you therefore have a timetable for these cooperation agreements and additional information on their content? The 2015 Action Plan also states that you will advocate for the establishment of a European minimum wage for cross-occupational or sectoral reference in each Member State. Have you ever found any leads on how to calculate this minimum wage? At the end of March, the European Commission decided to refer Belgium to the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning a legal framework introduced by the Anti-Abusion Act 2012. If Belgium was finally condemned by the Court of Justice, do we have alternatives to this anti-abuse mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the government agreement, the fight against social dumping is a government priority. As regards the concrete measures to be taken in this context, I refer to the 2015 action plan to combat social fraud and social dumping approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 April 2015. In this context, it is important to stress that we are in the midst of the process of transposing the implementing directive into our national legislation, which will lead to an improvement and greater uniformity in the implementation, application and maintenance of the secondment directive. The draft texts concerned will be submitted in the short term to the social partners within the National Labour Council. In this regard, the Government also intends to continue implementing the commitments made at the 2014 Benelux Social Summit. An approach plan has been drawn up and will be followed up in the course of 2015. In this context, these include the exchange of information on cases of fraud and social dumping, cross-border cooperation and support, the sharing of good practices on workplace identity checks and instruments to combat social dumping. Mrs Cassart, you are asking me if I have a timetable for cooperation agreements with countries at risk. I must tell you that this is not yet the case. But the Secretary of State, Mrs De Block, Mr Borsus and I are working on it. I hope I can give you figures as soon as possible. In addition, we also intend to stimulate the conclusion of partnership agreements with sectors vulnerable to fraud. At the end of these partnership agreements, the signatory parties can commit themselves to raising awareness among their European sister-organisations of the problem of unfair competition in terms of wage and working conditions. In this context, the Convention can act as a catalyst for all actors in the sector. Your second question relates to the introduction of a common European minimum wage standard. This would contribute to the fight against social dumping. As a result, it would become more difficult to compete on the basis of low wages raised to the bottom. As regards possible ways of calculating this European minimum reference wage, the arrangements for each Member State should be respected. Not all countries are aware of the system of the nominal minimum wage laid down by collective labour agreements, as is the case in Belgium. It is also not possible to set a single precise amount as the overall European minimum wage. Wages within the European Union differ too much to make this possible. As you know, my colleague Commissioner Marianne Thyssen is in charge of this competence within the European Commission. I would like to stress that, in the last paragraph of Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, wages are explicitly held outside the competence of the European level. A possible introduction of a European reference minimum wage would require an amendment to the Treaty, which is not at all obvious. Finally, as to whether there are alternatives to the anti-abuse legal system introduced by the programme law of 27 December 2012 and whether Belgium has finally been condemned by the European Court of Justice, the anti-abuse provision means that if someone is to be subject to the Belgian regime in accordance with the European directives but, following the construction of a secondment, he remains subject to a scheme in another Member State, one can speak of an abuse and Belgian social security is applicable. The Government is of the opinion that Belgian law is not in contradiction with European directives and, in the event of a conviction by the European Court of Justice, it will examine at this time whether and how Belgian legislation should be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u91	Minister, thank you for your response. You confirm that the fight against social dumping is a priority. You will transpose the directive and it will soon be applicable in Belgium. In addition, you will implement the Benelux commitments. However, it is necessary to go further. Your closeness to the Commissioner and your regular presence at the EPSCO meeting of employment ministers must be an opportunity to move Europe and to amend this directive, to put it back on the job. Like me, you know that the problem is its regular circumvention, but also the fact that social contributions still apply to the country of origin and not to the country where they are paid. This is obviously an important element of dumping and differentiation. So I am counting on you to be the basis, to be the driving force in terms of the evolution of this directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u92	Minister, thank you for the completeness of your answer. You've got the cards in your hands. It will be a long-term job, because it is not so simple. Both with Mrs Thyssen and with the government as a whole, we have some leads to move forward and the sector is really in demand. The figures speak for themselves in this respect. I'll let you work and we'll come back later on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament 2369 by Mrs Zuhal Demir was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2407 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 2408 and Question No 2409 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u94	Mr President, Minister, the press is talking about the possible job losses that the robotic revolution could cause over the next two decades. We're talking about one in two jobs that would be threatened over the next 20 years. This estimate is supported by a study by ING Bank which talks about 420 different types of jobs that could be replaced by IT. While the manufacturing sector of physical goods has so far been the main sector concerned with robotics, more and more jobs in the tertiary sector seem to have to be affected by computerisation, for example by administrative, commercial or even civil security jobs. This automation of functions offers, of course, an increase in speed and efficiency and reduces production costs. It is important to ensure that these technological innovations are both generating and non-destructive. Minister, do you have any statistics on the number of jobs generated by the technological revolution mentioned in this ING survey? Do you confirm the figures of ING's study on the number of jobs potentially at risk? How do you appreciate this phenomenon? Are the emergence and development of these new professions subject to any monitoring or monitoring within your services? Which sectors of the Belgian economy are most affected by this technological revolution? Do you have any forward-looking elements in this regard? Which sectors will gradually be subject to robotics? Are there tools to support the sectors concerned by their gradual robotisation with a view to the possible conversion of persons currently working in these sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u95	Mr Friart, you ask me a lot of questions about the numbers. It is obvious that technological change is very important for all of us, not only in Belgium but also for all the other countries. We are trying to monitor developments in certain sectors, with the consequences that this may have. You are right to say that this is an important development for all of us. With regard to the study to which you referred, it is possible that certain professions may disappear in the future, perhaps in the next twenty years, and be replaced by a working robot. However, we must remain optimistic and consider that this can also be an opportunity because, as a result of this development, opportunities for job creation will arise in certain sectors. For the rest, Mr Friart, I don't have the numbers you asked for. I am convinced that, together with my colleagues at the regional level, we must give companies the opportunity to create economic activities as part of technological change. That's what matters most.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u96	Mr Friart, you can also read the editorial, published in De Standaard on 21 April 2015, by Mr Stijn De Cock, chief economist of the Voka; this is a very interesting article.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u97	Mr President, thank you for this information. I will read this article. Mr Minister, of course, it is important to encourage and ensure that our companies can get on the train with new technologies, especially those in this sector that manufacture this type of equipment. It also represents many export opportunities for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament 2460 by Mrs Evita Willaert will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u99	Debates of the European Parliament 2574 by Mr Vercamer is withdrawn at his request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet added 2787 to these combined questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u100	Mr President, Minister, you may remember the thousands of messages on your mobile phone after we had launched an action to withdraw the measures on early retirement. There were over a thousand testimonies and what often came back was the notion of breach of contract. That came out clearly. The question ended up on the negotiating table of the social partners and the Group of Ten. However, the government refused to accept the compromise reached there and decided to amend the agreement. The deadline for the bridge pension in the context of companies in difficulty and restructuring remains 9 October 2014. Then the announcement of restructuring must have been made. The notion of adapted availability is an accompaniment organised by the regional employment services, the VDAB, Actiris and Forem. If you do not find work or do not accept training offers that do not immediately outvote with the previous job but with the skills and with the experience, sanctions may follow. De facto, it is the coffee floor watching how this concept will be implemented and applied in practice. By the way, the ABVV wrote that it could be a Pandora's box and a new harassment measure for the workers. I have a specific question. We often hear today that in companies undergoing restructuring, such as Delhaize, there are information meetings where employees get the message that they have to agree to join an employment cell. If they do not agree, they risk losing all rights. I have a letter here that Delhaize's employees received. I am somewhat surprised at the letter given to the workers of Delhaize. I read in paragraphs 2 and 5 of this document the following text: "If I refuse to register in the employment unit, then: 1. I communicate my decision of refusal via the registration document to the EPC. 2. I must not register as a job seeker. 3. I don't benefit from the outplacement. 4. I do not receive reclassification allowances paid monthly, nor do I receive a restructuring reduction card. 5. I am liable to a penalty from the ONEM, i.e. a temporary exclusion (from 4 to 52 weeks) in case of application for unemployment benefits. 6. I do not have the right to an unemployment scheme with additional business." I am a little surprised by this letter given to the workers in Delhaize since I understood that the aim was not to subject these workers to this regime. I would like to get your reaction on this. One last aspect of my question, Minister, concerns the violation of the standstill principle. For those who have not yet taken up a bridge pension, the change in the bridge pension scheme is at odds with the fundamental right to social security. Belgium committed itself to progressive implementation and the gradual increase in social rights. This is stated in the European Social Charter and in the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The standstill obligation is not an absolute principle. According to the Council of State, where the change of the bridge pension must be contested, only compelling reasons can justify a deterioration in social security. Could you please tell me, Minister, what compelling reasons are there? You know how we felt about it. The bridge pension costs little to the community. Supplementary allowances received by bridge pensioners on top of their unemployment benefits are paid by their former employer, not by the State. So there are not too many problems in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u101	Mr President, Minister, Mr Hedebouw explained the history. There was indeed a lot of discussion about the SWT in the Group of Ten. In the end, an agreement was reached, but there was discussion about the availability, active or passive, of those who end up as 60-year-olds in that statute in the coming years. The government has then decided to create a new term, which indicates an adapted path to be drawn up by SWTS, in particular the adapted availability. In doing so, one does not assume that work is sought in the same way as by someone who is younger and not in the SWT Statute. The target is an adapted path when looking for work. Symbolically, this is important because, compared to passive availability, there is still a signal here that at SWT one cannot assume that one should no longer be active in the labour market or that one can no longer be approached by the regional employment service. I therefore believe that this is an important step. The Federal Government has slightly modified the agreement of the Group of Ten by asking for an adapted route of availability in the future. One will not ask to apply and send sixty letters to which one receives a negative reply each time, but one will get a modified route. I believe that this is the right way forward, and I also believe that this is the way in which older people should be kept active in the labour market. In the days and weeks thereafter, a lot of discussions were held on the precise interpretation of the concept of "suitable availability'. At that time, we find ourselves in a regional area because the regional employment services are competent in this area. The Regions are competent to organise the guidance of job seekers, whether or not in SWT. In the press we read reports about consultation with the Regions, regarding the adapted availability. The question is whether some kind of definition has been developed about the meaning of this concept. Will the Regions interpret each in their own way? Is there any more clarity as to how they will implement this concept? What is the timing for the entry into force of this new system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u102	Mrs Fonck, I give you the floor for your inquiry. This is the first in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u103	You always need a first in life, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u104	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u105	Don't you mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u106	Not at all. I'm excited.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u107	I assure you, I won't make an arrest every day. At least not with the Minister of Employment. Minister, this is a case that has already caused a lot of ink and saliva to flow. And it's not over. While there was an agreement between the social partners on 12 March, proposing, in particular, passive availability for new entrants to the unemployment scheme with additional business, the government proposed an appropriate form of support and follow-up for these new entrants as well as for the older unemployed. You invented the concept of "adapted availability". If the federal level is competent, it must define this concept in the Royal Decree. Unless the federal government considers that, as a result of the sixth reform of the State, it is no longer competent and that the Regions are. As a reminder, the sixth reform of the State has well validated the fact that the monitoring of the availability of the unemployed for the labour market and the sanctions applicable when it is unavailable for the labour market and does not make sufficient efforts in its search for employment will no longer be the responsibility of the ONEM, but of regional bodies. It is therefore the latter who will accompany the unemployed. This concept is therefore not yet defined. I was very surprised to hear in plenary the Prime Minister define the appropriate availability as being related to the fact that experience, rather than the degree, will be taken into account. When we know the profile of the people we are talking about, we can imagine that we should not invent the concept of availability adapted for that. That being said, the Prime Minister is committed to this definition. Perhaps it will be the one that will be inscribed in the royal decree. I'd like to know a little more. The Group of Ten itself has asked you for a series of clarifications on this new concept of adapted availability. Where are we today? I filed this inquiry more than a month ago. Do you persist in this path? Is the definition of adapted availability always simply linked to experience and not to diploma? Have you been able to clarify this concept? Have you met with regional ministers? If so, what was the timetable? What was the result of your contacts? What's planned for the next one? Have you involved the social partners in these meetings? Have you responded to the Group of Ten's requests for clarification? Are there any new meetings planned? Will the new distribution of competences, which follows the sixth reform of the State, not lead to differential and potentially discriminatory treatment based on the regional service through which the job seeker will be monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u108	Mr Minister, at the meeting of the Management Committee of the RVA on 9 April last, a number of draft royal decrees on the availability of older unemployed and SWTs were submitted for advice. Those drafts, which actually received unanimous negative advice from the syndicated representatives, raise a number of questions. Not only is there the fact that the government deviates from the agreement reached by the Group of Ten on 11 March 2015, including by setting the availability requirements for long careers, heavy professions and the construction sector in 2017. In addition, you are going one step further. In the case of victims of a restructuring with a recognition period before 9 October 2014, those who are not yet 58 years of age or have 38 years of career at the end of the notice should not be available until their 58th but until their 60th. This is even more far-reaching than the government's response to the social partners' agreement, which suggested that those people would continue to have the old rules, i.e. the availability requirement of 58 years or a career of 38 years. For victims of collective redundancies after that date, the framework Cao will have to include a timetable for increasing the availability requirement to 65 years or a career of 43 years respectively. This also goes beyond the government's reaction to the agreement of the social partners. The design does not provide for a click system for whom the recording of his possibility of SWT temporarily delayed before the date of 31 December 2014. In the event of dismissal, the new rules will therefore apply to those concerned. Furthermore, the new concept of "adapted availability' is also introduced. An individual action plan will be submitted by the regional services within six months to any older unemployed or unemployed person who is required to be available. For the content of that action plan, reference is made to Article 27, Paragraph 14 of the unemployment decision, which in turn refers to the conditions and deadlines laid down in the cooperation agreement of 6 November 2013 concluded between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities on the active supervision and follow-up of the unemployed. However, the cooperation agreement referred to has ceased to exist on 31 December 2014. Unless I am mistaken, Minister, no new cooperation agreement has yet been concluded. The six-month period also differs from Article 5 of the old cooperation agreement. Moreover, there is also follow-up, adjustment and a personalised global evaluation of the Action Plan. These matters were also not provided for in the old cooperation agreement. So the question arises as to how the Regions will implement this. It concerns matters for which they are competent. In the absence of agreements and cooperation agreements on this subject, there is a risk of a wide range of practices per regional service, and thus legal uncertainty for the unemployed. Minister, will you change the decision as regards availability requirements, i.e. age for victims of collective redundancies with recognition before 9 October 2014? Will you modify the decision in order to provide a click system for those who have not recognised their right to the SWT before 31 December 2014? Will you postpone the application of the new rules until a new cooperation agreement with the Regions provides the necessary legal certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u109	Mr President, if I may, I will ask only one question because it deals with the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u111	Mr Minister, I will not go back to the context in which your Government invented this notion of adequate availability, nor to the breakdown of the social concertation represented by the questioning of the unanimous agreement reached by the social partners. But for a moment I would like to dwell on this new concept, which raises questions. That is how several of my colleagues have also asked you about this subject. Minister, can you clarify to me the definition of "adapted availability"? Is this definition or has it been the subject of consultation with the social partners? What about the contacts with the regions responsible for implementing it? Are you not afraid that this support could be done at the expense of other target audiences and that future pensioners are obliged to accept jobs that are less well paid than those they previously held? Do you not think that, as a result of this measure, pre-pensions will lose their attractiveness, which will greatly complicate the development of social plans? What are you planning to encourage or even allow workers to keep their jobs longer? Will measures be requested from employers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u112	Mr President, Minister, let us talk about social plans! As my colleagues have just pointed out, the availability of older unemployed people has been adapted and accompanied by personalized support. The agreement provides that workers who obtained the status before 2015 will no longer be required to seek employment. However, there is still a lack of clarity. In this respect, I am going to talk to you about workers who benefited from this measure during a corporate restructuring, particularly at Caterpillar. I am not talking about a small restructuring, since it targeted the largest private company in Wallonia, located in Charleroi. Several hundred people were affected. Pre-pensioned workers are asked to register as "simple job seekers", whereas in October 2013 they signed an agreement intended to protect their status. The obligation to register as mere jobseekers does not, of course, offer this protection. In the document they signed, there is nowhere to say that they had to return to work at the risk of being punished if they did not meet the requirements for re-employment. They are now regarded as unemployed people who have not sought work and therefore are punished. Some of them were summoned. Therefore, Mr Minister, in view of this very specific case, we are seeing some confusion in the measures that are being taken. This is one of the first pots I had to offer you today – after throwing flowers at you. What measures do you intend to take to dispel this opacity? Have you made any contacts to inform the ONEM of how to treat these people? In comparison to these pre-pensioners, have you drawn up an action plan to ensure that they have a different status from that of a simple job seeker? If so, could you please let me know because several hundred people would like to know?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking a lot of questions. I hope that, after learning my answers, you will be better informed and more positive about this matter, which is obviously very important. In application of the Government's reply to the Group of Ten, the concept of "adapted availability" or "disponibilité adaptée" was discussed in consultation with regional ministers of employment. Mrs Fonck, I have organised meetings with all the regional ministers responsible for employment. I talked with Eliane Tillieux, Didier Gosuin, with Philippe Muyters of course and also with instances such as Forem and Actiris, etc. Four draft Royal Decrees have been drawn up to regulate the situation of those who benefit from the single payment scheme and the elderly unemployed. This applies both to persons who were already subject to one or the other system before 1 January 2015 and to new entrants. The ordinary royal decrees are now before the Council of State for its opinion. The other royal decrees are on the table at the Council of Ministers on 8 May. These four royal decrees should enter into force on 1 January 2015. Only the new entrants will have to comply with the new concept of adapted availability. This concept implies that the person concerned must be registered and remain as a job seeker, but must no longer be subject to provisions relating to the active search for a job. They must also contribute to appropriate and personalised guidance, adapted to the skills and experience of the unemployed, taking into account, of course, the general rules relating to the definition of an appropriate employment relationship. The social partners were consulted on this new measure insofar as these four draft Royal Decrees were submitted to the Management Committee of the RVA. A number of meetings were held with the Regions and the German-speaking Community on the development of the federal normative framework to be developed as a result of the sixth state reform. The aim of this normative framework is to ensure the most uniform application of the measure in relation to the monitoring of the availability of the unemployed in the various regions of the country. We have drawn up a draft legislative framework which is now being transmitted to the Regions and the relevant regional ministers, asking them to notify their agreement by 15 May at the latest. It is a little too early for a budgetary estimate of these measures. However, I asked the RVA to provide me with the figures relating to the persons in the age categories to which the measures may apply in the coming years, in order to assess their impact on the regional employment services. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you understand that we have discussed with the ministers responsible at the regional level. We've done a good job. We have made a proposal that is now sent to the regional minister. I hope that we will receive positive reactions before 15 May. After that, I will go to the Group of Ten, and obviously also within the federal government, to approve the normative framework with a very concrete definition accepted by, not only the federal level, but also the regional level. Mrs Kitir, the normative framework I mentioned applies to all regions. It has therefore been a great challenge to find a formulation of adapted availability which can be applied both in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders, taking into account the different conditions in those different regions. The proposal for a legislative framework provides for the support of older unemployed and bridge-retired persons from nine months onwards. If the regional ministers find an agreement, we will also amend the draft royal decree and apply the necessary equality. You know that the clicking system was already recorded in the KB of 30 December 2014. I may not have understood you correctly, but anyone who is fired in the context of restructuring before 9 October 2014 will be treated in the same way as before. You say it's stricter now, but it's not, it's happening in the same way as before. Those who did not have 38 years of professional history should also be actively available for up to 60 years unless my information was incorrect, but I do not think that this is a change in relation to the previous situation. Mr Hedebouw, you referred, among other things, to a letter from Delhaize. I believe that, as far as employment cells are concerned, the legislation currently in force is being applied here. I did not read that letter from Delhaize, but if I understood you correctly, Delhaize applied the legislation in force, with employment cells and the like, which is normal in such a situation. Mr Massin, I have already said that in the case of restructurings, such as Caterpillar, the situation before 9 October 2014 is very clear, as I told Ms Kitir. The Royal Decree sent to the Council of State stipulates that they must not register as jobseekers. The ONEM will already apply this royal decree, which is expected to be published. It has been very clear that the ONEM has already been told to apply this royal decree. I believe that we should be able to conclude this issue as soon as possible with an agreement in many areas, including the legislative framework. The normative framework is the subject of an agreement between the ministers responsible for regional and federal governments and the social partners. I understand that we are now in a grey area. There are a lot of questions, the people concerned are very uncomfortable. I hope that on 8 May we will propose to the government that we approve some royal decrees already. After May 15, we will put this on the federal government's agenda to approve this normative framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u114	Mr Minister, before I reply, I would like a further clarification. You say that you should always be available for up to 60 years. This was true for older unemployed people, but not for SWT-ers. If one was SWT-er, one had either the age of 58 years, or 38 career years and then was exempted. If you did not have these 38 years of career, you had to remain passively available up to 58 years. Now that's up to 60 years. Older unemployed people had to remain available for up to 60 years, but this was not the case for the SWT-ers. I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u115	My head of the cabinet, who has some experience, is not convinced of that. However, we will look into it, Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u116	I think that is an important question, Minister, because you also know how sensitive this matter is. Many people are in uncertainty and want a clear answer. After all these months, I think we should give them a clear answer. I'm gonna ask my question again. Does your KB determine that those who have not reached the age of 58 years and are not employed for 38 years and come from a restructuring announced before 9 October 2014 should remain passively available until 60? Is that in your KB or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u117	I can only confirm that we are applying the same system as before. Maybe you should make sure you're talking about the correct design of KB. However, you sometimes make me doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u118	This is a dossier of which I am quite sure, Minister. You also know that I followed it closely. There is a big difference between 58 and 60 years. That's why I'm asking you to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u119	Let me tell you again: it is the same system as it used to be. I can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u120	If it's the same system as before, it's up to 58. But you say it's up to 60. For the older unemployed it was indeed up to 60, but for the SWTs it was not. For the SWTS it was up to 58. Anyway, Minister, you can look it up from me and send me an e-mail tonight, as long as I get a clear answer, because I think this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u121	I can tell you that the current system is identical to the previous one. I'd like to send you an e-mail to confirm that, but unless all my employees make a big mistake, and I, too, which is not excluded, the system is identical, or we'll make sure it's identical.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u122	All right, Minister. I'll finish my reply. Let us both check for clarity and keep each other informed if the systems are not identical. A mistake had also crept into the family care file. Mistaking is human, as long as one is willing to correct his mistake. On this dossier, I would just like to say that I regret the way it has happened. I am glad that there has been a solution to the question I have asked. I'd like to thank you for that. However, I still find it incomprehensible that you are now aiming at this target group. These are people who have completed a long career with a bridge pension. There are many younger unemployed and many other people who need more guidance. So I don't understand why you're pointing your arrows at these people. In any case, I hope that the royal decrees in question will appear as soon as possible, so that the people who go to sleep in uncertainty and wake up with it can quickly be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u123	Minister, before I reply, I would like a clarification. You mentioned the normative framework. In the background, will the adapted availability be a variant of active availability or passive availability? It still makes a big difference. There are differences in job search approaches, but there are also differences between sanctions regimes. You can answer me, since May 8 is very close.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u124	Mrs. Fonck, this is a third way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u125	I understood, but this is a third path that must not be easily centrist!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u126	There is no question here of active or passive availability; this is a third way. For me, since the Regions are competent, the most important thing is that the regional ministers approve my proposal on 15 May. It is important that this is not only applicable in Flanders, but also in Wallonia and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u127	I feel like we won't get much more today. So you're going to consult the Regions. On the other hand, I do not know whether you are going to wait for an agreement with the social partners or whether, as happened on 2 March, you will not follow them. There are several components to this file. We are mobilizing disproportionate energy from the regional services that will have to deal with it. We are here in the symbolic register, and Mr. Lachaert did not say otherwise. We're going to use too much energy for a percentage of success that's going to be extremely low. This is not a reason to give up, but the real question is whether it is really to these people that we must mobilize all our energy or, on the contrary, to the job seekers for whom, indeed, we need an increasingly proactive, supportive, demanding, accompanying attitude, in order to really bring them to work. Mr Minister, there is going to be a retroactivity which is very likely to concern people who have given their consent in the context of social agreements. These people are still rolled in the flour because they have given their consent in an X frame and, a posteriori, they will be imposed a Y frame and other conditions. I find that to be a serious problem. Finally, and I did not mention it in my question, but that is the core of the problem, there was a unanimous agreement with the social partners, including employers, who have expertise and contacts with the reality on the ground. They know the reality of these people who are in these categories and who find themselves seeking employment at 58, 59 or 60 years of age. They are very familiar with their reality and know very well that the probability of finding work is extremely low. If a unanimous agreement had been reached in the head of the social partners on this subject, it was because they were starting from the reality of the field by presenting a list of situations which they had marked very well and which seemed to me to be both balanced, fair and in line with the reality of the field. So, having swept this unanimous agreement of the social partners, attests in the head of some members of the government to the desire to make it a symbol and a rejection of the way in which the social partners can mark an agreement. I therefore put forward a motion, in which I ask the government to respect the agreement of the social partners of 2 March. I will not read it, Mr President, it has just been tabled. This motion reproduces the full agreement of the social partners of 2 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u128	The motion was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u129	Minister, in view of the royal decrees that are in preparation, I have the impression that you are the manager of a Brico Center. You make decisions and initiatives. Previously, it was better, you were the minister of social consultation. It was much more positive. Now you give me the impression of being the manager of a Brico Center, that is, you make a decision and then you examine whether there are any agreements before inventing a motion – not you, but your colleagues – and cooperation agreements, while going to see what's going on elsewhere, etc. It really gives an impression of DIY. I have heard your arguments during your plenary reply. But I'd like to share my concern with you. I'll take an example, and I'll give you the name. A 56-year-old Caterpillar pre-pensioner, who started working in 1974, is sanctioned by the ONEM under the new government measure that came into effect on January 1, 2015. The ONEM tells him that it is not available on the labour market. He wanted to take economic unemployment, but he has been punished and has not touched anything since February. You are telling me that this measure does not really apply, but we are actually observing that it applies. We are in the dark because the ONEM does not apply the provisions. He considers these people to be mere job seekers. It therefore calls for them to be available on the labour market. He therefore asks that they go to training. When the person feels that it costs too much to go, whereas normally he is not obliged, he is punished and excluded from unemployment and he does not touch anything. When I ask you whether you have contacted ONEM for the treatment of these people, I know that you will repeat to me that the legislation is very clear. But, in fact, this is not the case: people are summoned and sanctioned by the ONEM.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u130	Mr President, I do not know the specific dossier. Mr Massin, if you give me the name, this file can be examined. But you're too harsh, I think, when you talk about DIY. We're trying to find solutions. We have the agreement of the Group of 10. Mrs Fonck, there are two important elements on which we have not implemented the agreement of the Group of 10. First: adapted availability. We will seek and, I hope, find a solution acceptable to all with the Regions. That's normal. Secondly, availability up to 62 years for heavy occupations. I will also try to find a solution that is acceptable to the Group of 10. In the current situation, I am trying to give the ONEM instructions so that it follows the draft royal decrees and does not give sanctions now. Mr Massin, I repeat, if you give me the name, I will be able to examine the specific case. But I am convinced that the ONEM, in Wallonia and Flanders... [[Mr. Massin communicated the name in writing to Mr. Peeters]] Thank you and I will write to you as soon as possible to provide you with information on this file. Mr President, I hope that we will be able to explain very quickly, at the end of May, that all royal decisions will be clear and that the normative framework will be applied, as agreed with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u131	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, asks the government respect the agreement of the social partners of 2 March 2015 and therefore: - as regards the beneficiaries of an RCC as at 31 December 2014, provide that the latter must not be available for the labour market. The same treatment applies to persons who were laid off before January 1, 2015 but have not yet received a CCB; - in the case of beneficiaries of an RCC entering that scheme after 31 December 2014 (excluding the above assumption of termination prior to that date), three cases must be distinguished: .ordinary scheme (RCC at 62 or 60 years subject to certain conditions): for these beneficiaries, provision is made for passive availability until the age of 65, except for beneficiaries who have reached the age of 60 and who have a career of 42 years or beneficiaries who have reached the age of 62 and who have a career of 43 years. .special schemes - construction sector, night workers, heavy trades, long careers: provide that passive availability is applicable until the age of 60, unless these persons justify a career of 40 years (construction, night workers and heavy trades) or 41 years (long careers). .to provide for a special scheme for persons in medical RCC: for them, no obligation of availability is applicable to them; - in the case of undertakings undergoing restructuring or difficulties: .to provide for a transitional regime for the restructuring announced in 2014. If the announcement was made before October 9, future CCB recipients are also exempt from the requirement of active or passive availability. .in other cases, there is a passive availability up to the age of 60, unless these persons justify a career of 38 years; - as regards availability for older unemployed (excluding RCC): - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, Year: applicable passive availability rule 2015: up to 60 years or 40 years of career 2016: up to 61 years or 41 years of career 2017: up to 62 years or 42 years of career 2018: up to 63 years or 43 years of career 2019: up to 64 years or 44 years of career A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, asks the government comply with the social partners' agreement of 2 March 2015 and therefore: - with regard to those entitled to an SWT on 31 December 2014 to ensure that those concerned are not available for the labour market. This should also apply to those who were dismissed before 1 January 2015 but did not yet enjoy SWT; - with regard to the SWT-ers who join that scheme after 31 December 2014 (with the exception of the above hypothesis of dismissal before that date), a distinction should be made between three situations: .ordinary scheme (SWT at the age of 62 or at the age of 60, subject to certain conditions): to provide for passive availability up to the age of 65 for those beneficiaries, unless it concerns beneficiaries who have reached the age of 60 and are able to submit a career of 42 years or beneficiaries who have reached the age of 62 and who are able to submit a career of 43 years. .special schemes - construction, night work, heavy occupations, long careers: ensure that passive availability continues to apply up to the age of 60, except where those persons are able to submit a career of 40 years (construction, night work and heavy work) or 41 years (long careers). .to provide for a special system for persons with a medical SWT; such persons must not be available; - in the case of undertakings in restructuring or difficulty: . to provide for a transitional regime for the restructuring announced in 2014. If the announcement took place before 9 October, future SWT users will also be exempted from the mandatory active or passive availability. .in other cases, passive availability shall apply up to the age of 60 unless such persons can submit a career of 38 years; - as regards the availability of the older unemployed (except the SWT-ers): .to ensure that workers who were exempted from the obligation to seek employment on 31 December 2014 continue to be exempt from that obligation after that date. .with regard to the new "older unemployed' or those who become unemployed after 31 December 2014, provide for a passive availability according to the following phasing-out: Year: passive availability scheme 2015: up to the age of 60 years or career of 40 years 2016: up to the age of 61 years or career of 41 years 2017: up to the age of 62 years or career of 42 years 2018: up to the age of 63 years or career of 43 years 2019: up to the age of 64 years or career of 44 years. ' A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Vincent Van Quickenborne et Benoît Friart. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mr Benoît Friart. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to conclude our work for today and to start again next time with Question No 2678 by Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u132	Mr. Chair, I know that at times it is a bit heavy, given that the government is calling for urgency for certain bills. But, in the context of the proper order of business, would it be possible not to postpone matters too far away? Some questions were tabled more than a month ago. One of my questions concerns, among other things, people who are receiving discount allowances and who are experiencing relatively dramatic situations. Asking questions is a way of trying to solve the situation of people who are experiencing great difficulties on a daily basis. If questions could not be postponed for two or three months, this would also relieve parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u133	Colleagues, next week we will have the bill on social elections and then we will be following up with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u134	Mr President, it is up to you to organise the work, but if the question is converted into a written question, he will receive the answer within the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u135	If you turn all this into written questions, you will have the answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u136	Mr President, my question No 2678 in point 29 of the agenda dates from 3 March! Since then, the water has sank under bridges as I was questioning a decision that was taken by the government on February 27. So it doesn't make much sense anymore. All the more so, since this preliminary draft was voted on. For the form, I turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-29-54-commissie-ic152x.u137	The problem is that we have dealt with so many important draft laws in committee. Some Members have spoken for a very long time. That time might have been spent on the questions. In fact, you're right. I don't mind meeting over the weekend.
