ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u1	Mrs. Van Hoof isn't coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u2	Mr Minister, my question concerns the relationship between solariums and skin cancer. Everyone who has ever faced it knows that cancer is a terrible disease, which is becoming more common in our society. For example, skin cancer affects more and more people. The figures I received from the Foundation against Cancer show that there is a clear relationship between getting the condition and using solariums. For example, powerful sunbeds could be ten to fifteen times stronger than the power of the sun during the afternoon on the Mediterranean. Although the figures show that the use of solar banks greatly increases the risk of cancer, I do not, of course, call for a general ban today, but for rational and informed use. That is where things are going very badly today. Although we have had clear legislation on solar banks since 2009, it appears that they hardly ever meet the legal requirements in practice. The figures of the FPS Economy show that in 2013 only 7% of the controlled centres are in good shape with the legislation. On top of that, the figures of the Foundation against Cancer show that there are too few inspectors. Moreover, they must look for solar banks with the wet finger because there is no register anywhere. In addition, it appears once again that there are still many false assumptions among the public, such as the belief that pre-tanning under the solarium before going sunbathing would help to burn less. Some centres also distribute false information about the use of solariums. Some even talk of deceptive advertising and there are advantages linked to the use of the solarium that are scientifically quatsch. I have the following questions. Are you prepared to establish a mandatory register so that commercial matters can be checked for legal requirements? That is not the case today. Are you prepared to increase the number of checks and to provide sufficient staff for this? Would you like to contribute to the Foundation's request against Cancer to provide mandatory information on the solariums around the legal age and the risk of skin cancer? Can you instruct your services to screen the advertising campaigns of solar banks for the accuracy of their information and to address the centres that distribute misleading advertising? There is clear legislation. In the case of checks, many deficiencies are identified. How are these shortcomings addressed? Are the defaulting companies sanctioned and closed if necessary? What has happened in the past to the infringements that have been committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u3	Minister, I had asked a similar question to the Minister for Health, but it seems that this question has been referred to this committee, although I think that my question is very closely linked to public health. Unfortunately, I am a privileged witness to the dangers of solariums. Fortunately, that was years ago. However, I am firmly convinced, along with all the organisations that point this out, that solar banks are really dangerous. My colleague has already said most of it, but I would like to point out that we are not the only ones who claim that there is a danger. Australia has introduced a ban on solar banks for most of its Länder, in line with Brazil. The ban went into this year. A second point that I would like to add to my colleague's speech is that an alliance of about 20 organisations, including not the least, such as the Foundation against Cancer, Child and Family and Test-Achats, already in 2013 made four clear demands: mandatory registration of all solar centres, more and stricter checks on compliance with the law, a ban on misleading advertising and a publication of the inspection results of the controlled centres. Minister, do you intend to take action against the solar power stations that are violating the regulations? What about the four demands of the alliance? Do you meet these demands? What steps do you want to take to limit the use of solariums? Are we thinking in the same direction as Brazil and Australia, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u4	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of scientific research that clearly identifies the indications on the health risks associated with the use of sunbeds. I believe that there should be sufficient dissemination of certain health risks associated with them. From this precautionary principle, the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 was designed to help inform the user about possible risks associated with the use of the solarium, to determine the skin type, to exclude the minor, to comply with a number of technical requirements, etc. You will find all this in the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002. The Economic Inspectorate is also aware of this problem. In 2013, 94 centres were checked. I have more information for you on paper on those 94 centers. There are solarium centers, but also beauty salons, barbershops and fitness centers that offer solarium use. I will therefore hand you the breakdown of the 94 checks carried out in writing. In the control figures you will see a large degree of diversity. By this I mean that most checks have previously detected infringements of an administrative nature, such as the lack of information boards and so on. Other infringements are serious, such as allowing minors or exceeding the maximum radiation intensity. I fully agree with you that such infringements that have an impact and constitute a serious breach of the health situation should also be seriously addressed. Of course, infringements of an administrative nature must also be dealt with. On the basis of the figures available to me, the offences that have an impact on health are more limited in number than administrative offences. I have no figures on the situation in other Member States. I did get those numbers, but my administration doesn't own them. Where a check reveals problems, a warning shall be issued to the offender or a pro-justitia, depending on the seriousness of the offence. In the event of a warning, the offender shall be allowed some time, also depending on the seriousness of the offence, to fulfil his obligations. Afterwards, there will be a follow-up check. With regard to penalty fines, the Code of Economic Law provides for book XV to impose sanctions of between EUR 26 and 25 000. You have referred to the coverage of Australia and Brazil. We have held a meeting on this subject. We invited all the representatives of these solar banks to the cabinet to discuss the seriousness of the situation. Those participants were representatives of manufacturers and operators of solar centers, beauty salons and fitness centers. We have said that there is a problem that we want to see clarified further. It was also a question of compliance with the rules. They have all committed themselves to working on this through consultation. It has also been made clear to those concerned that we will see whether further steps can and should be taken if there is no improvement in the situation we want to achieve through consultation. A proposal for compulsory registration was made here. I want to look at all of this, but I do think that we should first appeal to the sector to its responsibility. We did that. We must also tell the sector that the existing legislation and the Royal Decree must be respected and the administration will follow it. If this is not enough and we find that there is no action, we will take further steps. I would certainly like to take with me the suggestions that have been made here regarding compulsory registration. There was no call for a general ban here. That is not the case now, and we are not considering it now. In any case, and that concludes me, I do not want any tolerance when it comes to infringements that pose a direct health risk or other risks. It concerns the radiation intensity of the lamps, the periodic monitoring of these lamps and of filters, the unavailability of the protective glasses, the non-rejection of minors and the admission of people with skin type 1. These are serious facts against which serious action must be taken. That is why I have given the order to bring an action for strike in the event of infringements, which is possible on the basis of book XVII of the Code of Economic Law. This was also clearly communicated to the sector. We won't be messed with. We are prepared to give those responsible, if they act accordingly, but there will be tough action in the event of infringements, especially as regards health risks. Those instructions were also given to the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I am extremely pleased that you are taking seriously the health risks associated with starting the solarium too young or with a skin type 1. It is also extremely efficient to talk to the centres themselves and the manufacturers in the first phase, to emphasise to them that it is serious for you. I'll wait with you to see what the results will be. If you find that they do not act as you and we do, namely by informing people correctly and offering correct devices, then effective further steps must be taken. I don't know when there'll be feedback on that? There is a timing on that, because we would like to get feedback anyway. Any feedback in six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u7	Yeah, that's how we planned it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I agree with my colleague. We are particularly pleased that you have dealt with this in this specific way and that you have involved the sector; that must always be a first step, and that is a good step. Self-regulation, if it happens, is, in my view, the best regulation, but I would stress that if it happens. That is why I am also delighted that you are calling for direct penalties when it comes to direct health risks. That would also have been my plea if it was really about too high radiation or about crossing age limits. In fact, I am told that there is sometimes a solarium centre where there is no staff on the ground. I can't believe this is happening. I call for very severe sanctions if this cannot be reduced in the short term. I understand that you agree. I hope that I can ask you again about this in six months' time and that you will have good news for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u9	I note that Mr Van Biesen is not yet present for his question No. 911.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u10	Mr President, Minister, we are all inspired by a report from the Christian workers' movement, and I assume that there is, until further notice, a problem with massive imports of stainless steel or inox from China and Taiwan. I will briefly read out the report and then link my question to it. I won't do it in extenso, don't worry, but so everyone who joins in my first question knows what it's about. The situation in the stainless steel sector is a cause for concern, according to the Christian workers' associations. At present, this industry accounts for five thousand direct and indirect jobs. It is mainly about Limburg and the region of Châtelet. European companies in this sector have to deal with dumping practices because of China and Taiwan. In 2013, imports of stainless cold-rolled steel amounted to EUR 785 million. In 2014, China's and Taiwan's market share grew by 50 percent compared to 2013. We all know that China and Taiwan are suffering from overcapacity because demand no longer follows the production of stainless steel in their economy. The excess production is now being dumped on unprotected markets like ours. This ensures that the stainless steel imported from those countries can be 20% cheaper. The aggressive and unfair commercial practices, as they are called by the trade unions, and for once I support them, China and Taiwan weigh heavily on the future of the European companies involved. The companies in this sector therefore initiated an anti-dumping proceeding in the European Commission. The reference of that anti-dumping proceeding is mentioned, but that is of no interest to the report. In Belgium, the cold-rolled flat stainless steel sector accounts for 1 700 direct jobs in Limburg and Châtelet and thousands of indirect jobs. In order to prevent Limburg and the region of Charleroi from being hit again by heavy industrial restructuring, urgent measures must be taken to stop these dumping practices, according to the trade unions. Again, I support them in this. We, both trade unions and myself, therefore ask you to intervene urgently to take the necessary anti-dumping measures against China and Taiwan in the spirit of the European Steel Plan. These measures must allow our companies to compete in the right conditions so that they remain sufficiently profitable to secure the five thousand direct and indirect jobs in our country. Are you prepared to take these measures? If so, what is the nature of these measures? The call comes from LBC, CNE and ACV-CSC METEA, who are represented by people from what I dare call your club.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u11	Mr President, Minister, Mr Penris has already outlined the whole picture. The last thing I would like to add is that you were signed by the relevant trade unions to raise the issue at European level. Did you receive the relevant letter from the union? What position do you and the government take on this? Are you considering taking certain measures? If so, what are the measures? Do you intend to raise the problem at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, my two colleagues have already very broadly set the stage. In short, jobs are involved on both sides of the linguistic border. About 700 direct jobs in Châtelet and just over 1,000 in Genk as well as many indirect jobs are at risk. In total, about 5,000 jobs are seriously threatened. I assume, minister, that you are aware of the situation, as many press articles have mentioned it. In addition, the trade unions of the steel companies, namely the ACV-CSC METEA, the CNE, but also the FGTB have informed you of their concern. It is essential that Europe take measures to counter this dumping. Indeed, if nearly 800 million stainless steel were imported in 2013, the market share increased by 50% in 2014. That is why I call for a relatively rapid radical intervention. I would like to recall here that about two years ago the European Commission presented an action plan for the steel sector. At the time, one European Commissioner even said that it was a strategic sector for Europe, and that it needed to be reindustrialised. Unfortunately, concrete measures are still expected at European level. While Europe, and in particular Belgium, is faced with a situation of dumping, European countries are not the only ones concerned. In fact, other countries in the world have also been confronted with the dumping of stainless steel from China or Taiwan. Brazil, India, Korea, Vietnam and Russia have already taken anti-dumping measures against Chinese and Taiwanese stainless steel. This means that the potential for the export of stainless steel from these two countries is shrinking. If we do not close the doors, we will see not a sharp increase but a flood of our European market by products from China and Taiwan. The United States, on the other hand, has imposed taxes and opened investigations into Chinese steel products. So, Minister, can you tell me whether you share our analysis of the situation of stainless steel in Belgium in relation to our industrial sectors? As far as production is concerned, there is a virtually complete steel industry in Châtelet. We produce the inox and we lamine it. Jobs are therefore at great risk. What measures are you considering in this regard? And since we are usually told that the answer must be European, what do you intend to advocate at European level, so that measures can be taken to ensure a sustainable industry and fair trade by combating this dumping? In the end, what is also noted by the workers is that we can fight as long as it is with equal weapons. It is well known that wage and environmental standards are not the same on the other side of the planet, or even in other places. Is it therefore possible for you to advocate the inclusion of safeguard clauses in all trade agreements concluded by Europe and/or Belgium in order to ensure high and binding social and environmental standards, protecting human rights, fair competition and the environment? Beyond anti-dumping measures, this would also allow producers to return to a level playing field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I will avoid repeating what has already been said. First of all, I am glad that our colleague from Vlaams Belang cares about employment in Wallonia; it is important and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u14	I became a Belgian parliamentarian. Alas!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u15	On this point, we do not share your concern. Minister, on January 7, the press reported that several unions had sent you and your regional counterparts a letter concerning stainless steel imports into our country. This steel comes from China and Taiwan; it would be sold at prices up to 20% lower than those on the Belgian market. Many industries are at stake in Belgium, in Flanders and Wallonia, in Genk and Châtelet and, more broadly, in Charleroi. Nearly 5,000 jobs are at risk. In June 2014, the European Commission reportedly opened an investigation into these Chinese and Taiwanese imports following a complaint from the European professional federation, EUROFER. This investigation could lead to the imposition of customs duties if the commission came to the conclusion that we are indeed in the presence of a case of dumping - sale at a loss. Can you confirm this figure of 5,000 people employed indirectly and directly in the sector? What is the state of play of the European Union survey? What are the future deadlines in this file? What options would be available to Europe, the federal government and the federated entities if the case of dumping were acknowledged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have obviously received the letter from the trade unions. It is good that majority and opposition are concerned about this dossier. I believe that this will be very positive for everyone who is employed in this sector. Mr Friart, I see that direct and indirect employment in the sector reaches more than 5,000 people. It is a very important sector, not only for Belgium, but also for Wallonia and Flanders. Now I'll come back to the letter. The letter calls for support to be given to the imposition of European measures against massive imports at dumped prices of inox originating in China and Taiwan. For the sector, it is true that the best way to respond to this is to promote trade-blocking measures at European level. I believe that this should also be looked at at at European level. The principles of the World Trade Organisation must be respected and the trade defence instruments are not for nothing part of the Marrakesh WTO Treaty. Consequently, if there is indeed dumping and serious injury, the necessary measures should be possible. The question is where we stand now. Mr Friart said that Eurofer submitted an anti-subsidy complaint to the European Commission on 13 May 2014 and 1 July 2014. The European Commission has then launched an investigation procedure. This will take some time, but the positive thing is that in February or March 2015, the European Commission will deliver its proposal for provisional measures to the Member States and request their opinion at a meeting of the Trade Defence Committee. You know that Belgium is represented there by an expert of the FPS Economy. Following the European Commission's proposal for provisional measures, Member States will be asked to adopt a final position by September 2015. Without prejudging the situation too much, I can say that, given the economic and social impact that this dossier has on the Belgian economy in two regions, I am very sensitive to this problem. I will wait and see what Europe is going to propose, but I expect that we will propose measures which will go in the direction of the questions that have been formulated. The sector has carried out various restructuring measures in Europe in recent years. This strengthened the competitive position of Belgian companies. That makes us one of the largest producers in Europe. It increases the importance of Belgium in this dossier. Trade protection measures can ensure that the injury suffered by the European steel industry by dumping is compensated so that employment in the sector concerned can be safeguarded. Ladies and gentlemen, that means that I am in favour of defending the measures you have launched. I also assume that we will be able to provide very clear answers at European level by September at the latest. For Belgium, I think it is clear what position will be taken there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u17	Mr Minister, I am not a protectionist, let me make this clear from the outset. I'm a Fleming, chers collégues. We Flemings live off the open economy. We have every advantage of keeping our economy open and of being able to import and implement as much as we consider useful. However, we must always play with what is called the level playing field in the Flemish Parliament, through a bad expression. We must ensure that, in the battlefield in which we take on the economy, everyone, not with equal weapons, must be different but be able to start fighting with equal opportunities. This is no longer the case in this sector. We are faced with a dumping practice. You refer to Europe to remedy that, but I would have liked to know what you will do. What responsibility do you take in this, especially when you are encouraged by people from your own constituency?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u18	Minister, I welcome your comprehensive answer, although I think it is difficult to take action at Belgian level, as you make it clear that it must first go through Europe and that there will be a ruling in September 2015. As much as we regret it in terms of employment, we will have to wait until September 2015. At that time, we will be asking the questions we need to ask again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u19	Minister, the way you refer to the issue, we hear that you are well aware of the situation. There are risks to Belgium, but this is also the case in other European countries. We were just talking about Aperam in Châtelet. In its time, ArcelorMittal wanted to sell it, and a German even bought it. So Germany also produces stainless steel, just like France. In short, all major European steel producers are concerned. It is true that the measure must be taken at European level. Nevertheless, we can expect a proactive reaction from you, especially when we see that the majority and the opposition are very attentive to this issue to the point of being able to unite behind any initiative that you might take. One thing is to expect that Europe will not submit any anti-dumping proposals or propose any social and environmental standards. Another is that a minister – for a case involving 5,000 threatened jobs – takes his pilgrim stick to discuss it with his European counterparts. You could also provoke a meeting of European ministers to agree on a response from the States to the Commission's proposals. That's what I was hoping for from you. If you take this initiative, don't worry, we'll be behind you. But please take it: 5,000 jobs are at stake. We are aware of the current economic situation and the difficulties experienced by the population. What the hell! This would be a positive sign from the government towards those who have called the alarm, i.e. the trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. The problem is that we will have to wait for Europe to make a decision. It will be in 2015. The situation will only deteriorate for our companies in Belgium. I'm still confident in what you're saying. I also hope that you will be very proactive in this matter. For our part, we will remain attentive to what is happening in the sector and we will ensure that all these jobs are protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u21	Mr Massin, I can assure you that we are proactive. This is a very important sector for all of us, 5,000 people are working there! As Mr Janssen has pointed out, this is particularly true at European level. It is at European level that we have to deal with things. March is near. I could understand certain reactions, in case of February-March 2016. Then one could say that it takes too long. It's already February and we'll be in March soon. Mr Penris, having spent many years in different parliaments together, I thought that my answer, as has always been very carefully formulated, was sufficiently clear to you. As far as I am concerned, this sector and the position of Belgium are so important that I assume that Europe will propose very clear measures to protect the sector on the basis of the level playing field. If we did not get that protection at European level, we would have an enormous problem. I do not want to anticipate things and assume that Europe is not going to do so, but perhaps we could, together with a number of other countries that are also heavily endorsed, consider what we can do ourselves. I am convinced that Europe has enough elements to take a position in this direction. However, I am not Europe and I must, of course, be careful to respect my powers. I do not want to suggest anything to the European Commission for which I am not competent for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u22	Mr Minister, I assume that you will soon be able to announce a date for the meeting of all the Ministers for Economic Affairs of Europe with this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u23	That was the last line or we'll never finish! I said that I was not going to use the usual formula "the incident is closed" because the subject is not and is very important!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u24	Minister, people are living longer and longer, and that is, of course, a good thing, but that also sometimes brings with it some inconveniences. Increasing numbers of people are suffering from hearing problems due to ageing. If it's genetic, it doesn't look so good to me either. So I am asking this question a little out of my own interest. Hearing aids can compensate for a large part of hearing loss, but they are extremely expensive. A study by the Price Observatory showed that the average price in 2013 was around EUR 1 650. When I submitted the question a while ago, the problem reached the newspapers. You said you wanted to work on responsible prices for hearing aids in a transparent market. It was not clear to me, however, what exactly you meant by that. Did you mean that the current prices should not be raised anymore? Or are you saying that prices can go down a little bit? The study also shows that 80% of the hearing aids analysed are more expensive in Belgium than in our neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, on average, the hearing aids are even 25 % cheaper than ours. The difference is so great that I would have liked to have had an answer to the following questions. How will the responsible prices, which you will introduce, relate to current prices? What is the extent of the difference? How do you explain the large price difference with the Netherlands? Is there a correlation between the price difference and turnover? Are there a lot more hearing aids sold in the Netherlands, which means prices are lower? Or is there another reason for the price difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u25	Mr Klaps, nothing in this life is strange to us: from solariums over inox to hearing aids. We have also dealt with that dossier as it should be. I'll give you an overview. At the end of the previous legislature, the hearing aids sector was subject to federal price control. As a result of a price regulation that became applicable on 1 July 2014, the FPS Economy Prize Service received requests for price fixing during the last week of September 2014 from the distributors of hearing aids for more than 2 500 types. I didn't know there were so many different types. You refer to the average price for a hearing aid in 2013 of 1 650 euros. That is the final price, which the consumer pays to the audience. It is important to mention that only the wholesale prices of distributors are subject to price regulation. Maximum prices may thus be fixed for them. The prices charged by the wholesalers and thus the distributors are increased by the amounts requested by the audience for his services, which are not covered by the price regulation. So let me clarify this. We can impose maximum prices on the wholesalers, but not on the audience themselves. They provide additional services which are not covered by the price regulation. In determining the level of future maximum prices for hearing aids, account will be taken of the cost structure of the distributors of hearing aids. A methodology will also be used on the basis of certain parameters of the cost structure, such as the import cost, the commercial cost, the financial costs and the margin of the distributor. Foreign prices and prices of similar products can also be used to determine the maximum prices. All this is new as a result of that investigation. Applications are currently being examined. In any case, the aim is to make the hearing aids sector more transparent on the basis of price control. The files on wholesale prices, which I have approved over the last few weeks, show that a clear reduction in prices was made between the wholesale prices of the distributors and the prices I have granted. Due to the new methodology and our approach, wholesale prices have fallen by as much as 25% on average. This concerns only the price at the level of the distributors and, for the sake of clarity, not the price charged to the consumer in the shop. Perhaps you'd like to make that more public. Maybe the media are here too. I assume that the retail price will also be reduced. However, I do not have a grip on that. At present, no data are available on the price difference with the Netherlands. The comparison of the prices of a hearing aid in Belgium and neighbouring countries is not so evident given the lack of access to uniform data, the variety of reimbursement procedures and the difference in inclusive services depending on the country. There are substantial differences between the Belgian and Dutch markets, both in terms of guarantee and service. For example, we include two years of warranty, as well as a mandatory test period of at least two weeks and a follow-up of the device by the audience for a period of five years. In the Netherlands, the follow-up costs are additional and the services included in the purchase price depend on the agreements between the audience and the insurer. There are also differences in the reimbursement procedure and the level of training of the audiences. Mr Klaps, the most important thing is that we dealt with the problem, which was achieved by the press at the time. I have already tried to give you an insight into how the new methodology and approach have produced results, for the time being, because we are not going to be long. There is a 25% reduction in wholesale prices, which is already an important step forward. Let us hope that at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, when we have an overview for the whole year, we can confirm it or make it even more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u26	Minister, that is encouraging. It means that there was indeed work on the shelf and I am glad that the problem has been addressed. It might be good to look at the relationship between wholesale prices and our neighbouring countries at a later stage. If the wholesale price is reduced, I hope that the reduction will also benefit consumers. I understand that you have much less to say about this, but perhaps we should give it just as much publicity, so that consumers can know it when they buy it and ask it proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u27	Mr Klaps, I leave it to you to pass it on to the press, by e-mail or by any other means.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u28	Mr. Secretary, I haven't had time to send emails yet, so I'll just...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u29	Pay attention to that, because they may arrive wrongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u30	Mr President, since last year a new consumer price index has been used to measure inflation more accurately and has 2013 as the reference year. The new consumer price index includes a new index basket, a new method of calculation and all kinds of improvements for certain categories of products. A switch to a chain index was also realised, allowing refinements in the weight scheme, product basket and methodology to be applied annually in January. The year has just begun and in theory changes could take place. I therefore have a few specific questions. Are there new products in the product basket and are there products that disappear from it? Are there any changes in the weight schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u31	Mr Klaps, the answer is yes. I even have a nice list for you showing which products are new and which disappear. That's what the paper made, if I'm not mistaken. Last year, in February, the Index Commission established its work programme for 2014 as a function of updating the consumer price index for 2015. The change to a Laspeyres chain index makes it possible to update the weighting schedule every year in January, both by updating the weights of all witnesses included in the basket and by adding or deleting products. The composition of the index basket has recently been modified, adding a number of products and services and deleting others. I have a list of all the products, Mr President. Maybe I can give it to Mr Klaps later. The list includes knitting wool, toilet bags, driving licences, etc. A few products have also disappeared from the basket, such as fabric for dresses, mp3 players and mp4 players, because when you buy those devices, they are all integrated. As for the shifts within the weight scheme, I can give you the following. The new weight scheme was published together with all the necessary methodological information at the end of January on the occasion of the January 2015 index. Clothing and footwear fell in this scheme from 65.72 to 63.31, as did electricity from 31.83 to 27.46 and gas from 23 to 20. Alcohol and tobacco have increased from 23.6 to 25.2. The weight scheme is still based on the 2012 household budget survey. However, for two reasons, slight adjustments had to be made. On the one hand, a number of witnesses were removed and others were included. On the other hand, since 2014 a chain index has been used, the weights have to be updated annually via a price update according to the most current reference period, in particular December 2014. I will be happy to provide you with the full schedule so that you can think about it with even more knowledge, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u32	It is always interesting to follow closely how a system is applied, to see what its practical consequences are. Something sometimes appears in the press here and there, but when a question is put, of course one cannot know what will appear in the press in two weeks' time. I remember that the weight of clothing is reduced. That is probably because the solders in Antwerp have been a great success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u33	Mr Minister, unfortunately I have already thrown my copy into the old paper, but you may have gotten it on the bus yourself. It's a leaflet with a big one on it.A 7-inch tablet is already yours. The message is that for only 2 euros you will receive a two-month trial subscription plus a 7-inch tablet as a gift. At first glance, that's really cool. When you read the conditions of use, it says: "The trial subscription is automatically renewed without a counter-notice." If the consumer does not take any action himself, he will automatically end up in a standard subscription. By the way, these 2 euros must be paid by direct debit. You know that the new SEPA rules themselves have much less control over this. One must therefore already sign a direct debit and then be able to cancel on time. Secondly, the gift, so the tablet, will be sent within ten weeks of receipt of the first payment. One takes a two-month trial subscription and only after ten weeks one gets the tablet! If the subscription is cancelled during the trial period, this means that each shipment linked to the promotion offer will automatically be discontinued, with the exception of those already on the move. In other words, if the subscription is cancelled during the trial period, there will be no more shipments, not even the tablet, as it comes after ten weeks. The strange thing is, of course, that such an offer comes from the consumer protection organisation number 1, in particular Test-Achats. That's pretty poignant, isn't it? So, Minister, I have a number of questions for you. Firstly, how many complaints have been received in recent years by the ombudsmen and the General Directorate of Control and Conciliation regarding such misleading promotional offers? Secondly, how do you evaluate this offer and similar offers compared to Articles 97, 98 and 99 of the Economic Law Code concerning misleading acts and omissions? Thirdly, what actions do you think should be taken here by the government, but of course also by the FPS Economy and perhaps by the organisation in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u34	Mr Dedecker, as far as your first question is concerned, the ombud services do not have detailed figures on misleading offers. We have, of course, requested it in response to your question. In future, when book XIV of the Economic Law Code enters into force, ombudsmen and qualified entities making out-of-court dispute settlement will have to prepare an annual report containing detailed information. So in the future we will have those figures. I can give you the figures from the General Economic Inspectorate. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, 3 893, 4 320 and 4 590 complaints were received in respect of unfair commercial practices respectively. These numbers include both complaints about unfair commercial practices against consumers and complaints about unfair market practices against persons other than consumers. "Unfair commercial practices," "unfair commercial practices," "unfair commercial practices," "unfair commercial practices," "unfair commercial It's not just about promotional offers. As far as your second question is concerned, we have been informed. This is important information. I was confirmed that the tablet was acquired by the consumer as soon as he accepted the promotional offer and took a trial subscription, even when he canceled it. We can of course assume that the messages in such actions can be clearer, but that does not mean that there are misleading commercial practices. It is for the Economic Inspectorate to carry out counter-inquiries in the event of possible breaches of legal provisions. That inspection needs to investigate. The rules on unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers are European-based. The directive in question is of a maximum nature, which means that Member States no longer have the possibility to draw up additional or stricter rules. If you have already accepted that offer, I hope that this answer will make it clear to you that your tablet has been finally acquired, even if you cancel the subscription.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I have some observations to make. Firstly, the number of complaints is increasing, but the complaints concern both unfair commercial practices and other matters. It would be interesting to distinguish between them and to look at them separately, but that will soon be the case. Secondly, I did not go into it for the sake of clarity, but communication is in any case very unclear, especially if the conditions explicitly state that the tablet will not be sent until later and that there will be no more shipments if the subscription is cancelled. That is anything but clean and anything but an example for such an organisation, which always demands of others that communication be open, fair, transparent and correct. I think we can expect an example from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert's 1306 question was converted into a written question. Next, attached questions Nos 1370 by Mr Wathelet and 1800 by Mr Nollet are postponed. Question No 1414 by Mr Pirlot was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 1437 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 1438 by Mr David Geerts has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u38	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of 2014, the federal government was expected to decide on the award of the newspaper and periodical distribution contract. Traditionally, this distribution contract was awarded to La Poste. At bpost, obtaining this market is crucial because its non-renewal will likely lead to the dry loss of 3,500 jobs. The concern is palpable within trade union organisations and bpost staff. A restructuring has been under way for years. In the difficult economic situation we are facing today, when the decisions taken by your government are already very hard on all workers, this would be another terrible blow for our fellow citizens. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, has the federal government, as a representative of the shareholder state at bpost, ever taken a decision on the award of this distribution contract? If so, what are the ins and outs of this decision? Otherwise, what is the planned schedule for this allocation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u39	Mr President, Mr Devin, since Mr Geerts had asked a question on the same subject, I had prepared an answer in both languages. Right now, we're in the selection phase. Such selection shall take into account the technical competence and the economic and financial capacity of the candidates. Candidates who meet the requirements and are not excluded on the basis of one of the exclusion grounds will be able to submit a tender on the basis of the specifications to be sent to them and which will include, in addition to the technical specifications, the criteria for granting the concession. I assume that we can bring the file to government level very quickly. After all, it has been dragging on for a long time and my cabinet has already put a lot of energy into it at the start of the government. The various stages are as follows: a preparatory phase; the publication and announcement of the concession and the call for applications. Those parts are already finished. The current phase is the selection decision of the applicants for admission to submit tenders. The transmission of the specifications documents to the registered applicants follows. The receipt of tenders, the negotiation with one or more tenderers, the question of the best and final offer, the award of the concession and, finally, the preparation of the contracts are followed. As far as timing is concerned, the aim is to arrive at a reasoned award decision in the coming months following the selection of candidates, the submission of the tenders themselves and their assessment. Discussions on the status of the project are currently under way with the services of the European Commission. We are concerned about reactions or comments at European level. That is why we have informal discussions with the European Commission in order to make our case clear and to defend it. Three applications were received: bpost, Belgium Diffusion (BD) and AMPs (Agence et Messageries de la Presse). Three candidates are now in the race. Fifth and sixth, the selection decision will look not only at the current capacities of the candidates, but also at the ability to acquire the necessary capacity within the appropriate time frame. During the tendering phase, further testing will also be carried out on the basis of the tenders submitted. Since the procedure is under way, I cannot give any additional explanations. The principles of employment were already worked out by the previous government in the announcement of the concession. It was mentioned that the specifications would impose an obligation to respect social legislation during the implementation phase. I hope I have answered your questions. I also hope that through the positive contacts we have with the European Commission, we will be able to move forward on this very delicate and very important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Having said that, can you give me a deadline in terms of decision-making? Indeed, this dossier should have been completed at the end of last year. We are already at the beginning of February and this is still not the case. I'm not asking you for the day and the hour. Spring lasts three months. Can we wait for an agreement before, during or after the spring calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u41	As quickly as possible! Still, we are working hard on this issue. Indeed, we must move forward because it is of enormous importance to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u42	Minister, I would like to thank you once again. You've been as precise as you could be. I would remind you that thousands of jobs are involved. I will therefore come back to this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u43	Mr President, Minister, as you know, many people do outdoor sports. However, there are also people who do sports in a fitness centre. This is a real business in Belgium. For the vast majority, SMEs are SMEs with fewer than 10 employees. Most practitioners can opt for a number of subscriptions: for a month, three months, six months or a year. The latter are usually cheaper than short-term subscriptions. The FPS Economy has no problem with long-term contracts paid monthly for too expensive to pay at once. Customers face a problem if they want to get out of such long-term contracts. Because of circumstances, people may not be able to keep their annual subscription and wish to cancel. One of the problems is the high cost of early termination. In some cases, it is even more expensive to cancel the subscription than simply to let it continue. In these cases, according to the FPS, creditors are spoken of and recognition as creditors is mandatory. The sector recognises the problem and may wish to resolve it by reducing the cost or compensation for cancellation, or by preventing early termination. You, too, made it clear that you wanted to enter into consultations. My questions are as follows, Minister. When are you planning to sit around the table with the sector, or has this already happened? Should the sector register as a creditor? If so, what time limit do you propose? What problems could this pose for the whole sector? Are you considering limiting notice periods by law? Or do you hope that the sector will make its own proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u44	Mr Minister, Mr Janssen has outlined the situation very well. The long-term subscription formulas of fitness clubs are under attack. These are often annual subscriptions that have to be paid monthly. Stopping such subscriptions early often causes problems. The compensation to be paid by consumers is often greater than the price for the remaining duration of the contract. It has been announced that the Economic Inspectorate would conduct a large-scale investigation into such long-term subscription formulas. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. Have any complaints been received by the FPS Economy on this issue in the last five years? The Economic Inspectorate has indicated that it wishes to carry out checks. Can you tell me how long these checks will take and how many staff will be deployed to do so? Are these checks a new fact or have there been any checks by the Economic Inspectorate in the past? If so, how many infringements were detected at the time? What should the fitness club do when an infringement is detected? How much time does the club have to adapt? What measures are being taken? Finally, as Mr Janssen has said, it would be a possible solution for a fitness club to be recognised as a creditor. This, of course, involves a number of obligations and a great deal of red tape. I believe that we need to find a balanced solution whereby consumers can stop their subscription, for example because of medical complaints, but also taking into account the rights of fitness clubs. In fact, rights are acquired from a contract concluded. In short, what balanced solution do you think is possible, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u45	We are not surprised by the fitness sector either. After the solariums and the hearing aids it is now up to the fitness subscriptions. We will leave nothing untouched, especially if you have any questions. In 2010 and 2011, the FPS Economy received 48 and 47 complaints respectively about the fitness sector. This figure was higher in 2012, 2013 and 2014. 129, 147 and 108 complaints, respectively. On the basis of the complaints from 2010 to 2014, 36 effective infringements were identified. Some offences can be rectified quickly, while others are allowed more time. It therefore depends on the type of infringement, how much time it takes to rectify the infringement. The current controls are part of a general investigation that ran from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014. Final results are expected by the end of next month. For the purpose of carrying out the checks, 50 control agents were employed to visit on average three fitness centres with a uniform checklist. How am I going to proceed? First of all, I believe that solutions should be balanced and that the interests of consumers and businesses should be reconciled wherever possible. Pending results at the end of February, initial consultations have already taken place with the professional federation. By analogy with the solar centres, we have also invited the professional federation to the cabinet. It has clearly confirmed its intention to develop a code of conduct to which fitness companies commit themselves. We have also used the same methodology here. We have told the sector what the problems are and asked how we will deal with them. They are prepared to draw up a code of conduct. As soon as the final report of the Economic Inspection is available, this code of conduct shall be drawn up in accordance with the findings. We want the code of conduct to fully solve the problem that these findings would reveal. As you know, it is my preference if the sector wants to self-regulation, provided that it is taken into account and that the findings of the Economic Inspectorate are met. So it should not be a rag of paper, with which one thinks to be off for a while again and to be left alone for a while. That's not how it works. I agree that a code of conduct is to be drawn up, but if that does not help, we will, as in the previous dossier, take tougher measures. The sector is prepared to draw up a code of conduct on the basis of the Economic Inspectorate's findings and final report and then the sector must comply with them. If that is not the case, we will re-act and consider what other measures need to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive and clear answer. I am sure that the code of conduct will be drawn up and that we will check that the sector complies with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. The numbers don't lie. There was a problem. It is a good thing that you consult first and if we can find a solution with the sector, that is of course also our preference. I welcome the fact that there is a stick behind the door so that, if the consultation and the code of conduct do not work, we can take tougher measures. I will certainly continue to follow this up and hope that you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u48	I don't know where the problems keep popping up, but when people hear all the questions, it seems like people are abusing their power. In the newspapers we could hear that there are problems with door-to-door vendors of energy contracts. The number has increased. In 2014, there was a doubling compared to 2013. A code of conduct has already been drawn up to ensure that consumers are not fooled by sellers. She states, among other things, that sellers should be very careful among the socially disadvantaged, the disabled and the elderly. Apparently, those groups are being endorsed. The rules are being violated more and more often. They wouldn't or wouldn't identify themselves correctly. They make up all kinds of excuses to get in, and they force the contract by not giving time to think. These malpractices are mainly found in small suppliers. Whether it is small or large suppliers, it remains unacceptable. In response to the call by the Energy Ombudsman to ban house-to-house sales of energy contracts, you announced two measures. You will launch an investigation into such practices and, if necessary, consider tightening the rules for door-to-door sale of energy contracts. How do you plan the investigation? Will you consult both large and small energy companies? Are you planning more checks to separate the bad from the good sellers? What specific measures are you planning to tighten up the door-to-door sale of energy contracts? What sanctions do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u49	Minister, Mr Janssen has already outlined the problem. In your previous answer on fitness centres, you mentioned the introduction of a code of conduct. There is a code of conduct in the electricity sector, but this does not guarantee fair competition. The Energy Ombudsman noted that in 2014 there was a doubling of the number of complaints about door-to-door sales of energy contracts. Despite the code of conduct, many vendors are still guilty of misinformation or incomplete information. He therefore clearly argued in favour of a ban on door-to-door selling of energy contracts or the imposition of excessive fines in the event of malpractice. First, has the FPS Economy observed a similar increase in the number of complaints? Secondly, will you once again consult with the energy sector in order to reconfirm or possibly strengthen the code of conduct? Thirdly, what do you think of the Ombudsman's position to ban the door-to-door sale of energy contracts or to substantially increase the fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u50	Mr Minister, there was indeed a call for a ban on the door-to-door sale of energy contracts. Your opinion has already been asked. However, I would have liked to know how that happens in other countries. Does the problem only exist in our country? Is there a similar ban in other countries? I'd like to have your views on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u51	My three fellow Members have already said everything. I'd like to get on top of it, because it could be worse. Together Stronger is a cooperative organisation that helps consumers to compare energy prices and join forces in a group purchase. She reported that door-to-door vendors abuse the name "Strengthening together" and often swindle older people with wrong price comparisons. I believe that these practices should be put to an end. There should be a ban on door-to-door vendors of energy contracts requiring customers to sign a contract on the spot. Can you tell which energy suppliers operate in this way? Which suppliers have received well-founded complaints? How will you stop these practices? Are you considering a restraining order or fines? How will you arm the consumer against such misleading practices? In the past, several successful awareness campaigns have been carried out to encourage consumers to compare energy prices. Is there a new campaign in the making?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u52	Mrs Vanheste, if you have specific files, as you have mentioned one, then you have to file a complaint. As you now put it, this is certainly misleading advertising and one must act against it. Colleagues, since the liberalisation of the energy market in Flanders in 2003, the FPS Economy has regularly received and dealt with complaints about door-to-door sales of energy contracts. Failure to comply with the code of conduct constitutes an unfair commercial practice under the conditions set out in book VI of the Code of Economic Law. We therefore have a code of conduct, which is not respected here. Thus, all complaints about possible breaches of the agreement are registered as unfair commercial practices in the released electricity and gas markets. The Economic Inspectorate does not see a significant increase in the number of complaints: 395 in 2012, 251 in 2013 and 279 in 2014. Only for complaints submitted via the automated web form, it is possible to reflect the number of complaints related to door-to-door sales. For the years listed, there are 14, 26 and 18 respectively. According to the information provided to me, four energy suppliers do door-to-door sales: EDF Luminus, Electrabel Consumer Solutions, Eni Gas & Power and Essent Belgium. These sales are usually made through independent sales organisations, which are sub-contracting for suppliers. The Economic Inspectorate therefore does monitor the practices in the energy sector. In the first instance, efforts are being made to improve compliance with the Code of Conduct by means of consultation. Where appropriate, a report shall be drawn up. Several minutes are under consideration at the competent prosecutors' office. However, my services have no idea of the application of the civil penalty in the event of a breach of the rules of the code of conduct on off-premises sales and by telephone contracts. The Code of Conduct, which was last revised in 2013, is a very useful complement to the existing rules and contains many detailed obligations that energy suppliers have assumed. In the first place, it is necessary to ensure effective compliance with the rules. That is why I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to inform the energy suppliers that any infringement will be thoroughly investigated and rectified. As mentioned above, the latest update of the 2013 Code of Conduct dates back to 2013. I asked for a general examination of the application of the new obligations imposed by the energy suppliers in this amendment. There has been a great deal to do about the Ombudsman's call to ban door-to-door sales of energy contracts. However, I cannot prohibit door-to-door sales. Door-to-door sales are, after all, an out-of-house business. A judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 July 2014 clearly shows that ambulant trade constitutes a commercial practice that the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive covers as much as possible. I can't ban it on the basis of that judgment. I am convinced that a ban is not really necessary. Compliance with the rules is more efficient. In countries where such a ban existed at the time of the adoption of the Directive, that ban could continue for six years. Some countries therefore had such a ban at the time of the adoption of the directive, but that goes out after six years. Mr Dierick asked about the situation abroad. Well, in Luxembourg there was a ban on door-to-door sales since 1987, but it was lifted in 2014. In Britain, on the basis of a mutual agreement in the sector, intervention was taken in the door-to-door sale of energy, which was abolished. In the Netherlands door-to-door sales can be done, but this practice still receives the special attention of the consumer authority in the context of aggressive and misleading commercial practices. In France there are specific rules for the energy sector, but they do not provide for a ban on door-to-door sales. I cannot prohibit myself on the basis of the judgment. Like I said, after six years, the possibility goes out. There is a code of conduct and we will have it respected better, because it has been commissioned. As in other cases, we will at some point re-evaluate whether the problem has been solved. If there are still serious problems, measures must be taken, in addition to the measures I have already taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u53	Minister, I think we should tell the consumer that he should always indicate when such practices occur. After all, I do not think that everyone indicates that, so we can watch over that a little bit. Furthermore, I think that we should make it clear to companies such as EDF, Electrabel, Eni and Essent that, if they are independent sellers, they should remove the charlatans from their organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When complaints about such practices come to the municipalities and contact the suppliers, it turns out that it is self-employed sellers who, once the contract has been concluded, are no longer concerned. Sensitisation of the four suppliers applying door-to-door sales and better functioning of the Economic Inspectorate will enable us to put an end to malpractice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u55	Minister, I think it is very good that you speak clearly. The Energy Ombudsperson suggested that a ban be imposed. We are now finding that this is neither practical nor legal. That was better examined from the beginning, because now balloons are left out, while the suggestions cannot be realised. It is good that it is now clear that a ban is not possible. I'm also pleased that you're taking decisive action. There were a lot of complaints. It's a good thing you've given the order to investigate every infringement thoroughly. I think we should send a message to the consumer: if you have any complaints, submit them to the FPS Economy, so that a thorough investigation can be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u56	Minister, I am glad that you are doing this. I think the problems are bigger than we think. After all, few people who have been injured indicate that. I strongly believe in a prevention campaign. I choose to warn consumers about such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the presence and increasing use of vending machines that are now part of our daily lives. Indeed, who did not one day succumb to the temptation of these automatic machines of drinks, chocolate, snacks and other treats at the station, in an airport or in a metro station? Two scenarios can therefore arise after introducing the currency and choosing the product. Either we get the requested product and the automatic distribution can be interesting and useful in our consumption practice. Either, the product is not delivered. In this case, a product was paid without receiving it. You will agree that this is unacceptable even if, very often, the citizens who encounter this kind of inconvenience go beyond the fact that the amount lost is not high and that there is usually not much time to solve the problem. However, I think it is important to stop for a moment at this situation that many consumers have encountered and to make a point. Minister, is there any specific regulation for the installation and use of these vending machines? Are there legal remedies for malfunctioning these devices? Are all the information concerning the exercise of these remedies clearly indicated on these machines? Is there an obligation to mention, for example, a telephone number, the name of a contact person or the name of the responsible company? How is the refund assessed and carried out? Can the injured consumer obtain compensation for small damages? Do you think that the consumer is sufficiently protected in this respect? Finally, have consumer organisations ever raised this type of problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I shall begin by answering your last question. Consumer organisations have not yet reported problems in this regard. Maybe you have files? For our part, we are not aware of the problems that you have pointed out and highlighted. As far as public authorities are concerned, an important legal framework already exists. That is why I believe that additional regulation is unnecessary. Since serious problems do not arise, there is no need to change the legal framework. As I have just said, perhaps you are aware of specific problems. If that's the case, I'm ready to examine them. However, it would surprise me somewhat, since, to date, I have not received any files from consumer organisations. Having said that, I have here a list of the laws currently in force. You know that there is a 2011 European directive on consumer rights. Contracts concluded through vending machines or in automated commercial spaces are excluded from the scope of the latter. In Book VI of the Code of Economic Law, the Belgian legislator wanted to comply as closely as possible with the law on market practices and consumer protection. No exceptions are provided. The operator of vending machines is therefore subject to the provisions of the above-mentioned book. In order to avoid any ambiguity, the sale by an ATM does not constitute an off-premises sale, which requires the simultaneous physical presence of both parties. I have here for you a document that contains all these elements. If problems exist, I am prepared to examine them and react if necessary. But, for me, this is a case that does not have enough concrete elements to act on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u59	Minister, thank you. I asked you the question because there are more and more vending machines. I therefore wondered whether the legal framework was sufficient to protect the consumer who would feel harmed. I think it has already happened to everyone to introduce parts into a distributor and not to receive the purchased product, regardless of its price. As distributors become more widespread, the amount of money is becoming more and more important as well. I will be aware of the documents that you will communicate to me and I will come back to the subject later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u60	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I am going back to a matter that I asked your predecessor, Mr. Vande Lanotte, in February 2014. I'll set the context for you. In 2009, the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois, in the province of Namur, granted Alpeco Fireworks a concession for the 20-year occupation of the former NATO base in Sugny of which it owns. The agreement provided for the storage of fireworks in bunkers built during the Cold War. It quickly turned out that the terms of the agreement were not respected by the tenant in terms of both the payment of the rent and the security of the site. In October 2012, the Namibian Provincial College decided to close the site. Subsequently, the commune obtained from the justice of the peace the termination of the lease. In 2013, - this is where you intervene - the SPF Economy placed seals on the bunkers. The bankruptcy of Alpeco Fireworks was declared in February 2014 and a trustee was appointed. The latter wants to value part of the fireworks stock, repackaging another part of it, but it is likely that a stock will remain to be processed. The SPF Economy has a role to play in this process when it has to verify the level of dangerousness of the stock in order to assess what is evacuable, what is evacuable by reconditioning and what will have to be destroyed on the spot. Very recently, a robbery was committed in one of the sub-leased igloos by Alpeco Fireworks to another French company, Euro Bengal. Even if the loot is meagre, this incident demonstrates the need for a rapid security of the site, which, it should be recalled, represents the largest civilian site for the storage of explosive materials in Belgium and which is classified Seveso. Minister, can you tell me how this issue has evolved since February 2014? What was undertaken by the FPS Economy to help solve it? How long will the FPS Economy assess the hazardousness of the stock? Why has this not yet been achieved since February 2014, when I was questioning your predecessor? Could the cost of firework evacuation be estimated? This is a great concern for this small rural town. What is the status of contacts with regional, provincial and municipal authorities? This is indeed a multi-jurisdictional case. Could a timetable for action be established? Have any measures been taken to secure the site? Do you think that the company that was robbed, Euro Bengal, offers all the necessary security guarantees?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u61	Mr Minister, I hope that in your answer you will not set fire to the powders!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, with respect to your first question, the order issued by the Court of First Instance in Dinant on February 21, 2014 provided for the designation of provisional directors, who were to ensure, among other things, the security and evacuation of the site. Three days earlier, however, the Antwerp commercial court had declared the company Alpeco to be bankrupt, since the directors were also discharged from their mandates from the outset. Some steps were then taken, notably by the SPF Économie, to resolve this situation. Some actions have been carried out for good purposes, others have been carried out in part, others are still under way. For the repackaging of non-marketable products, it is necessary to wait for the necessary means and the decisions of the curator. This has given rise to many consultations between the actors concerned. Their first concern was to make every effort to ensure that the curator could deposit the necessary financial resources for the management of the site as well as for unsold products. Second, this is primarily the responsibility of the site operator. An inventory of the products present, classified by categories, including waste to be destroyed, has been prepared. The bunkers containing these products are known and have been sealed. No intervention or manipulation of these products has been planned until further notice, which severely limits the risks. With regard to destruction, it still needs to be determined whether it can be carried out in a specialized facility or on-site. Thirdly, this exercise within the competence of the curator has not yet been carried out at this stage. Fourthly, the municipal, regional and provincial authorities have been and continue to be involved in the piloting and monitoring of this issue. Fifth, from the outset, the curator was asked to implement the appropriate measures to ensure that the site was guarded. This included the use of a guard company, which was also requested to collaborate with the local police. Recently, an anti-intrusion detection system was installed on site access. A few days ago, a meeting was held with my services to discuss further steps that could be taken to improve site monitoring. Finally, there is no reason to doubt the safety guarantees that this firm offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. The question is, of course, somewhat explosive. While this local issue is lagging behind, it nevertheless has a significant impact on a small rural entity in terms of security. You're saying everything's safe. I note that there has still been an on-site intrusion, which is worrying about the dangerousness of the products stored there. It is also important to consider the financial element that depends on the trustee's ability to properly complete the bankruptcy. Then comes a temporal element. I think everyone on the spot wants the case to be settled as quickly as possible. I hope that the SPF Economy will do its utmost to ensure that this is indeed the case and that we can turn this potentially explosive page.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u64	Mr President, Minister, Telenet has not been able to think away from the news in recent months since the announced price increase. The company is under attack and much improvement does not seem to be in it at the moment. Through the media, I learned that more than three thousand customers would have failed Telenet through the printing group. They would have filed a complaint with the FPS Economy for unfair and aggressive commercial practices. According to the protest group, customers who have been empowered enough to sue would have received all kinds of compensation, while those who are not empowered would have received nothing. It's about free movies up to free rent of the digicorder. Has there indeed been a complaint to the FPS Economy regarding unfair and aggressive commercial practices? If so, what exactly does the complaint entail and how does the FPS Economy continue to deal with this complaint?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u65	Mr President, Mr Janssen, I can answer this question quite briefly. The FPS Economy was informed of an open letter drawing attention to Telenet's alleged discrimination. Anyone who believes that there are unfair and aggressive commercial practices can, of course, lodge an official complaint so that the Economic Inspectorate can conduct a counter-examination of this. They're working on that, too. I would add that teledistribution prices have become a regional issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u66	Mr Minister, I will then pass on my questions to the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u67	We like short questions and answers. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u68	Question No 1608 by Mr David Clarinval is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u69	Mr President, Minister, on December 20, the Bancontact network came to saturation and broke down. The economic damage, as noted by the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI), is enormous. It was indeed the Saturday that preceded Christmas week. This day, however, had to be free for traders, since Worldline, the electronic payment system operator, wanted to compensate for the blackout just a year earlier. So, not only have the losses suffered by traders in 2013 still not been repaired, but in addition, they suffered further dry losses in 2014, to use the words of the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM). There is something very frustrating here, as traders pay for this service. In summary, our merchants paid for a service that they lacked in a period of great financial benefits and for which they did not receive any compensation. This is an intolerable situation that needs to be clarified. So, Minister, can you tell me how Worldline justified his system's wanderings? Are you aware of the company's decisions to compensate for losses incurred in 2013 and 2014? The NIS and UCM assured that they would contact Worldline about these two unacceptable failures. What information have you obtained in this regard? What are the solutions proposed by the company to avoid a further breakdown? This is indeed the priority issue. What measures do you intend to take if, despite future developments, another breakdown is to occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u70	Mr President, Mr Winckel, you know very well that these are very sophisticated technical services. Unfortunately, it is impossible to ensure that no incidents occur. According to the information provided to me, Atos Worldline responded favourably to Comeos' request for an independent analysis of the December 20 failure. For my part, I immediately questioned the National Bank, which is responsible for monitoring payment systems. It provided me with an answer which shows that it considers Atos Worldline to be a market infrastructure of systemic importance and that the interruption of its computer systems has implications for card payments in almost all traders. The National Bank is of the view that the impact of the two incidents at Atos Worldline in December has, after all, remained limited, since only retailers using leased lines were affected by the breakdowns. It also confirms that Atos Worldline is taking steps to further strengthen business continuity and to offer alternatives to traders in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u71	Minister, thank you. I have been questioned by many traders who have been confronted with these problems, which have occurred at an important time for them. I have heard that you have responded, that you have requested information from the National Bank, and that Atos Worldline is going to conduct an independent analysis to determine the causes. It would be interesting if Atos Worldline offered the traders compensation, since the problems had arisen two years in a row. It is desirable that this should not happen again in 2015, but I know that you will be attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament 1572 by Mrs Dierick is converted into a written question. Question No 1578 by Mr Nollet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u73	Mr President, Minister, if our small and medium-sized enterprises want to participate in missions by foreign companies or governments, they often need certain certificates confirming the legal status and some factual data. Most of these certificates can be found on the portal of the KBO, but this cannot always, or usually not, be done in English. This is a threshold for our companies, especially SMEs, to become active on foreign markets, and if there is one thing Flanders and Belgium need to have it, it is export. Firstly, I would ask you to make some of these certificates available in English. An absolute minimum seems to me to be the limited extract from the current situation, containing the name of the company, the CBO number, the date on which the certificate was drawn up, the date of establishment of the company, the address, the names of the managers and the capital. Is this possible or are there legal objections? Secondly, what would be the cost of such an adjustment? Is such an adjustment planned? What other objections could prevent such an adjustment? After all, you know that sometimes between dreams and deeds laws and practical objections stand in the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u74	Mr Dedecker, I hear you know your classics, which is very good. I will try to give you an answer that you can be positive. The Crossroads Bank of Enterprises (KBO) now supplies only extracts in the three official national languages, namely Dutch, French and German. This method is in accordance with the applicable legislation, in particular the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters of 18 July 1966, to which the KBO must act as a federal central service. It is not possible to deliver official documents in languages other than the national languages. International conventions may provide for exceptions. Such a convention does not exist for the delivery of certificates from business registers. Here it comes, Mr Dedecker. On 16 January 2015, the Legal Service of the KBO requested advice from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring on this issue. The question was asked whether the KBO can deliver extracts in English without these extracts being null and void. To date, the legal service has not received a reply. On 22 January 2015, a reminder was sent to the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot give you an answer here today. However, we have asked for an opinion. The technical costs of adjusting the CBO application in order to deliver the extract in English are estimated at 10 man days for the development. Such an adjustment is not yet planned and it seems appropriate to wait for the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. However, if the answer is positive, I think it would be very good to spend those ten man days before the development, so that they can also deliver certificates in English. However, I would not like to be faced with a problem which could lead to the nullity of the extracts by not waiting for the political advice of the Standing Committee on Language Control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. You will understand that for me as a Flemish nationalist language legislation is very important, especially in view of the accessibility of people through the use of Dutch and the two other national languages as administrative languages. However, I am also very pragmatic in this. This must not hinder our economic development if, of course, there is respect for the people when it comes to using it. I am therefore very pleased with your initiatives in this area. If this is approved by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision, this seems to me to be a very sensible investment that can mean a lot to our SMEs. I would therefore like to thank you for your initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u76	Mr. Dedecker, thank you for the quote from Willem Elsschot. In my youth, I read the book Cheese, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u77	Question No 1649 by Mrs Matz is postponed. Question No 1664 by Mrs Matz is identical to that question. I think it's a new story. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 1715 will be converted into a written question. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is asking questions in other committees but will join us. Question No 1740 by Mr Nollet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u78	Mr President, it is true that we are talking about connected agents. Minister, I would like to return to a written question that I tabled in November 2014. I know some questions are technical and ask for more research. However, this is really a question in which the sector is waiting for your answer to take action. I have received signals about this from several quarters. So it really is a very difficult problem. It concerns the Royal Decree of 21 February 2014 amending the Law of 27 March 1995, which introduces the new definition of insurance agent related to the debt. What's a connected insurance agent? That is an agent who has concluded one or more contracts or powers of attorney with one or more insurance undertakings, under which he is authorised to read it out to me, because it is very technical for the insurance contracts which concern them respectively, only to act on their behalf, on their behalf and under their responsibility. A related insurance agent shall be allowed to act only in the name and on behalf of different insurance undertakings, in so far as the insurance contracts of those undertakings are not mutually competing insurance contracts. Unfortunately, in practice, the definition raises more questions and uncertainties than it appears to provide answers. The problem is that the majority of insurance agents who have an exclusive obligation with their insurance company may, in fact, cooperate with other companies. The most classic example is the following. Someone works on behalf of Company X, which offers car insurance but not caravan insurance. In this case, the insurance company allows the agent to conclude a contract of another company with customers who ask for such a caravan insurance. In concrete terms, the company can allow the agent to offer such policies and guarantees through a broker who is a 100% subsidiary of the group. Another possibility is for the agent concerned, with the approval of the company, to take over a broker's portfolio. Another possibility is that the agent in his agency contract with the bank is contractually required to do exclusive production with a company. When the bank then opts for another company, which sometimes happens, the agent is still allowed to manage the old policies. The new status of tied agents means that, although it is clear that a large number of companies operate with exclusive agents, they can no longer be registered as tied agents. However, that was just the intention of the legislative amendment. For all these reasons, I have the following specific questions. Are you aware of the current discrepancy between the legal framework and the real state of affairs in the banking and insurance sector? Have you been in contact with the professional associations in this sector on this issue? Do you already have a concrete solution to close the established gap between law and reality? As I said, the problem is very technical, but for the agents in this case, this is really a very acute problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u79	Mr President, Mr Klaps, you yourself mentioned this: this is a very legal question, which is of course important for the sector, which has already been involved in the definitions and the like in the past. You have already asked a written question on this subject, but I have to wait for the FSMA's legal analysis on the problem of the definition of related insurance agents in order to provide a complete and useful answer. The FSMA is itself in consultation with the professional associations concerned on this subject. I would nevertheless like to give you a number of elements. The Law of 30 July 2013 to strengthen the protection of customers of financial products and services extended MiFID's rules of conduct to the insurance sector from 30 April 2014. In this context, the Royal Decrees of AssurMiFID introduced the concept of "related insurance agent'. A related insurance agent is an insurance agent acting in the name and on behalf of and under the responsibility of an insurance undertaking for all or part of the activities. This concept is closely linked to the concepts contained in European Directives IMD 1 and MiFID 1 and 2. It allows a tied insurance agent to rely on the insurance undertaking to which it is affiliated, since the latter is responsible for establishing the necessary procedures to ensure compliance with the AssurMiFID rules of conduct. In addition, this concept also increases the effectiveness of the supervision exercised by the FSMA of compliance with the AssurMiFID rules by allowing it to address, first and foremost, the insurance undertakings that rely on affiliated insurance agents, since those insurance undertakings should ensure that the AssurMiFID rules are complied with by their commercial network. However, in practice, the concept of "related insurance agent' raises a number of questions. For example, the principle of exclusivity, in exchange for which the agent is given the opportunity to rely on the insurance undertaking with which he is affiliated, may limit the possibility for that agent to meet the questions of his clients or to take over a client portfolio from an insurance broker. Discussions are under way with the representative associations of the insurance sector in order to better understand these problems and their possible solutions. I shall then come to your final question. In consultation with the FSMA and the professional associations, I will shortly set out a number of options for answering these questions and resolving the problems raised by the introduction of the concept of "related insurance agent'. So far, Mr Klaps, my answers to your questions. I believe that a long way has come. I hope that further clarification can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u80	Mr President, Minister, this is part of the answer. This is an acute problem. Insurance agents covered by that statute are in fact unable to manage a large part of their portfolio today. The question is therefore what is happening with this today. We are no longer complying with the legal provisions. There is a great fear in the sector that these portfolios will somehow be confiscated by the large companies. The sector would like to be fine. I believe that this signal is very clear and it also comes from different angles. There is absolutely no problem with regulation and the follow-up of those rules, but it must of course be possible to follow them. With the amendment of the law last year, I think a number of new problems have been created. I am thinking, among other things, of administrative obligations. I look forward to the concrete solution. Mr. Secretary, do you have any idea of a term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u81	My people are telling me that this needs to be made clear in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u82	I'll follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u83	I didn't expect it to be any different.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u84	I will contact you again on occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u85	I'll allow you that freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u86	Mr. Chairman, Minister, winter balances are ending. Some will have made good deals and others may come out with a bitter taste. The bitter taste of having thought of having benefited from a reduction when it was actually a fictitious promotion. Indeed, it appears that false reductions are sometimes applied to certain products during periods of sale. Thus, the basic price could have been increased in order to offer a more interesting reduction (by 30% instead of 10% for example). In that case, it is clear that the consumer was deceived. Of course, I do not question the good faith of a large majority of traders, for whom periods of sales are paramount in their annual turnover and to have their equipment destocked. But some do not respect the rules of the game, by applying these fictitious promotions, which creates unfair competition vis-à-vis their colleagues who respect the law. In your policy statement, you announced that you want to step up controls to detect, and punish, fictitious promotions, which "trump the consumer and distort competition". Minister, how many controls could have been carried out by the Economic Inspectorate during these winter balances? How many of these controls have identified frauds related to fictitious promotions? What penalties are reserved for fraudsters? Do they have a deterrent effect? Do you have any other figures that could enlighten me in relation to this attitude or can you reassure me by telling me that what I am highlighting here is very uncommon?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u87	Mr President, Mr Cassart, I can inform you that during the last period of winter balances, the Economic Inspectorate carried out a total of 171 checks concerning the reality of price reductions. The result of 137 of them is already known. There were 4 minutes for relatively minor offences and 4 pro justitia for more serious breaches. This is statistically equivalent to 5.84% of problematic cases of price reduction announcements. Traders announcing fictitious reductions are at risk of criminal fines of at least EUR 1,500 and at most EUR 60,000. I believe that these sanctions are sufficiently dissuasive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u88	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his response. With no element of comparison, I do not know whether 171 controls are much or little compared to other years. I could do comparatives when I get to know the file a little bit better. When you tell me that there are 4 PVs for minor offences and 4 PVs for more serious offences, 5, 84%, that remains figures that are not alarming. But an important check must be carried out. I agree with you that the criminal fine, between EUR 1,500 and EUR 60,000, is dissuasive. It is important to continue in this direction in order to have permanent controls because the controls allow us to check how this happens on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u89	So it wasn't an answer to the discount.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I would like to speak with you about the concept of micro-enterprises. At the time of administrative simplification, the desire is to lighten these small entities in order to enable them to concentrate on their activities by deleting certain annexes for the National Bank of Belgium. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to administrative simplification. This is a good initiative. I think we've been talking about it for years at all levels of power, but I want it to be properly implemented. Indeed, I think that we must ensure the minimum figures. This seems essential to me, for example, for companies who want to work together without knowing each other. In this way, having a minimum of figures will help to reassure and foster good collaboration. I'll explain. You have a company in Namur that has to work with a company in Bruges. What is the first reflex of the financial director or even the self-employed? It is to consult the balance sheet figures in the National Bank's data bank, which obviously does not disclose confidential data but gives some clarification on the company's own funds, claims or other figures important for good collaboration. Therefore, Minister, can you give me the criteria for the concept of micro-enterprise? Can you tell me what the conditions are for this relief? How many companies are covered by this system? Shouldn't a minimum of figures be published in order to ensure transparency and thus maintain the obligation to transmit these data to the Central Bank of the balance sheets managed by the National Bank? Have you met the area? How's the file going? On the basis of the criteria that you are going to communicate to me, I think we are talking about a number of companies. Yes, you have very small SMEs that can certainly be promoted by simplifying their administrative obligations, but we must not go too far at the risk of lack of transparency in trade relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u91	Mr President, here I have all the information on Article 3.1 of the 2013 directive. But what is more important for Mrs Cassart is that I asked the Central Economic Council, which brings together employers' representatives and trade unions, to give me an opinion on the transposition of the directive. In this opinion, the Central Economic Council has to decide in particular on whether or not to take over the new category of micro-enterprises in Belgium, on the thresholds to be applied to small companies and on administrative simplification for small companies. This is the most important element, both for you and for me. I await this opinion before taking any action for micro-enterprises. It is an opportunity for Belgium, which you stressed, to reduce administrative burdens. Nevertheless, it is wise to await the opinion of the Central Economic Council before taking a decision and discussing this position here in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u92	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I think we can wait for that opinion. What's the agenda? A month, two months, six weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u93	In the response at my disposal, it is indicated on February 13, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u94	I will therefore come back to the subject at the end of February. Perhaps we could think together in committee about these criteria which, for me, are very important. The Central Economic Council will deliver its opinion. We could also question the sector in relation to this and pay attention to the thinking I have just given you. Administrative simplification can be undertaken in several sectors. However, since these are figures, attention needs to be paid. The first reflex of a company when it has to work with actors it does not know is to analyse the figures provided by the BNB, which are often subject to a tax officer or a trustee responsible for assisting companies. In any case, we need to see how we can help the sector effectively. I am pleased, Minister, that we can discuss this positively this month. I will put forward a few proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u95	Mr President, Minister, in recent months and years, the collaborative economy has been increasingly successful and fits prefectly into a vision of a more sustainable economy, in which citizens are going to become more consumers. I have listened to a lot of traders and consumers who use the collaborative economy. They still have a lot of unanswered questions about the further design of the collaborative economy. The collaborative economy could be supported as a real sector, especially when there would be a regulatory framework from the government and when the government would participate in the collaborative economy as facilitator, supporter and regulator. In view of the many unanswered questions, I believe that we must look from the government at the path we want to take with the collaborative economy. There's a lot of initiatives bubbling on it. They're often successful, too. Think of Uber and others. We can give them an important place in our economy. Do you have any idea of the turnover that the collaborative economy currently represents in Belgium? What measures are currently being taken by the public authorities to promote consumer products on a wide range of fronts? I am also thinking of car parts and new concepts of car dealers to allow consumers to use a car together. I am also thinking of bicycle parts and infrastructure that can be shared. What initiatives will be taken in the next legislature to give this collaborative economic model opportunities, according to its potential? To what extent do you wish to support the economic model of the collaborative economy? Finally, what policy does the federal government intend to pursue with regard to pricing in the collaborative economy? I hear that there are a lot of questions about this and that there is still great uncertainty about it. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the car dealers I was talking about earlier. They can offer car dynamometers in sub-concepts, but in the light of these sub-concepts there are still some questions about price regulation and so on. Could the government work on a framework? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, there is currently no specific legal framework for the sharing economy. It is therefore impossible at present to say what the real contribution of this economic model is. However, it is clear that this model is developing very rapidly in times of economic crisis. The EU 2020 strategy for a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy also states that we must use our resources more efficiently and sustainably in the future. Not only does the government want to promote the collaborative economy, it wants to make the economy more sustainable as a whole. It is therefore essential to place demand in a broader context. This is one of the reasons why the FPS Economy and the FPS Environment have been actively working together on these issues in a working group since June 2014, with the aim of identifying the components of a strategy and a roadmap for the more efficient use of non-energy and non-food-related resources. The Working Group formulated a number of proposals linked to the federal powers, which were bundled in an online brochure entitled "Belgium as a leader of the circular economy'. If you do not have it yet, we will be happy to deliver it to you, just like the chairman, so that all interested parties can have access to it through the committee secretariat. The FPS Economy is working with the FPS Public Health on an information campaign to make families aware of sustainable and responsible spending next year. I will see to it that the arguments for supporting the collaborative economy are addressed in this campaign. Fourthly, the problem of pricing will be dealt with in this campaign. Indeed, when a consumer buys a service or a product, it is not always clear what costs are associated with the use for himself and for society in the long and medium term. In existing initiatives, such as car sharing, users mainly use a form of rental contract, whereby the provider of a product or service also remains the owner. This formula facilitates management and maintenance, but it is also possible for consumers to group and organise a purchase together. At present, we do not have any information on practices in this respect. Outside the regulated sectors, it is not possible for public authorities to set or regulate prices for this type of products and services. In practice, a provider may freely determine the price for the use of its good, taking into account, inter alia, maintenance costs. Similarly, a seller can freely determine the global price of a product that would be purchased by a group of consumers, as well as the share in that price of each candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for the brochure I have been given. There is still a lot of work to be done, including from the government. I hear that important steps are already being taken to give the sharing economy more opportunities and to raise them to a higher level. You are looking at it in the light of a broader set of sustainable economies. That's a good idea. The sustainability of our economy deserves the necessary attention in your policy area, not only today but also in the coming years. As far as the sharing economy is concerned, I will take note of your answer to one of my last specific questions. At the moment there is no need for specific price regulation; the price can be set freely. That's important to know. Furthermore, preparations are being made by the administration of the FPS Economy for a communication and sensitization campaign on the sharing economy. It is good that more attention will be paid to this in the coming months. I will certainly go through the brochure and see what else can happen with it. I would like to thank you for taking account of the sustainable sharing economy in your policy area in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote's 1798 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u99	Mr Dedecker, you had your questions addressed to the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Minister for Employment, but the Minister for Employment will answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u100	Minister, according to the government agreement, it will be examined how market regulators, who monitor fair competition and consumers' rights, can cooperate more, in order to create synergies and economies of scale. Their powers will be evaluated to create synergies and to strengthen their functioning. Even mergers may take place during the government period. The initiative can provide centralisation of expertise, sharing overhead costs on the support staff and increasing specialisation and efficiency. Firstly, what structure is the aim of the reorganisation? What tasks do you think should be integrated across the regulators? Which ones should be merged operationally? What aspects should be coordinated? Secondly, what steps have been taken to implement that aspect of the coalition agreement? What further steps are planned to achieve a new structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u101	Mr Dedecker, you know the coalition agreement very well. I would like to point out, however, to colleagues other than the government agreement, that healthy competition in the market is important, which requires efficient cooperation between regulators. The powers of market regulators will be evaluated with a view to creating synergies and strengthening their functioning. As far as my policy is concerned, I will implement what is stated in the coalition agreement by means of a phased approach. Several parts of the Code of Economic Law have entered into force in recent months. Other parts will enter into force in the following months. It cannot, of course, be the intention that legislation should be recast in the short term. In the short term, therefore, the governance of the different market regulators will not be addressed. In the first instance, I will ensure that the various operators fill in the powers assigned to them in a correct and effective manner. Synergies shall be sought in accordance with the Code. An important tool for achieving synergies is the cooperation protocols, which will have to be established between the various market regulators. I am thinking in particular of the protocol between the FSMA and the FPS inspection services on the supervision of Book VII on consumer credit and mortgage credit or the Book VI on market practices and consumer protection. A similar protocol will also be concluded between the Belgian Competition Authority and the Prize Observatory. I can also say that the Central Council for Business will be given a new role as the umbrella body for the various other advisory bodies. The CRB will provide advice on economic regulation in a more efficient way. In a subsequent phase, the functioning of the partnerships will be evaluated, as the coalition agreement proposes. On the basis of the evaluation, it will be decided whether and, where appropriate, what further steps should be taken to achieve a more efficient division of powers between market operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u102	Minister, in the first part of your reply you referred to the recent introduction of the Code of Economic Law. It is true that stable regulation is very important. There is only one thing worse for companies than high taxes, either financially or administratively, namely unpredictable taxes and unpredictable regulation. In my opinion, stable regulation for businesses and consumers does not prevent the government from making changes internally very quickly, taking advantage of opportunities and synergies. We must continue to do this despite the recent introduction of the Code of Economic Law. I look forward to the various steps you have announced in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u103	Question No 1848 by Mr Delannois is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u104	Mr President, Minister, last week we read in the press that Mr Bogaert, the chairman of the Credit Professional Association, called on the UK to make the refinancing of a housing loan more expensive for consumers. Currently, lenders can request a maximum return on investment of three months interest from customers who repay their housing loan early. The UK wants to see that increased from three to six months, i.e. a doubling. This is a very topical matter. A lot of people have already refinanced or are still doing their loan. Given the current interest rates, this is obviously very interesting. It is therefore important that we clarify this quickly. Mr. Secretary, can you discuss an increase in the reinvestment fee? Can you reassure consumers that, no matter what changes to the new credit law, nothing changes to the existing conditions of the credits already in place? What is the situation in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries? Is the situation similar there? Test-Achats called for the abolition of the notary's intervention in the refinancing of a residential loan. I'm not a lawyer myself. Do you like that? What are your findings on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u105	Mr President, I did take that training a long time ago. Mr Klaps, I have, of course, taken note of the BVK's request to increase the reinvestment fee from three to six months. The demand of the sector has a certain logic. Banks providing long-term mortgage loans finance these loans with long-term funds, while ensuring a certain margin of interest as a profit. In the case of a massive refinancing of the loans at lower interest rates, the banks run the risk of this margin becoming negative. It is understandable, however, that consumers who have already concluded a residential loan at a higher rate several years ago than today would like to review their housing credit in order to benefit from lower interest rates. For these consumers there is a parallel with the interest they can get on their savings account today. The UK's demand for a review of the size of the reinvestment fee should be considered together with all stakeholders, including consumer organisations. It is essential to maintain the balance between consumer rights and the rights of banks. Moreover, the request from the UK should be considered in a broader context and not just in the context of this one specific situation in which many consumers request a review of their housing credit. Consumers can also decide to repay their housing credit early for other reasons. If there was to be an adjustment, this must, of course, fit into a global context. In addition, it is possible to ask whether the expression of a reinvestment in terms of a number of months is the best solution. This means that in the event of a higher interest rate, this reinvestment fee is much higher than in the case of a low interest rate. For this reason, the Dutch system provides for, for example, a flat-rate amount determined according to the duration of the credit and the amount of the amount. In the other Member States, systems vary widely. For example, there are countries where the law does not provide for a reinvestment fee. Nor do the European directives indicate any direction in this respect. A refinancing of a residential loan with the same bank does not, in principle, give rise to a notarial deed. It is only in the case of refinancing with another bank that the intervention of a notary will be necessary to achieve the transfer of the mortgage tender, i.e. the lighting of the mortgage plus the new tender. In fact, it concerns the transfer of a right of rem sion to do so as legally as required by an authentic instrument. An amendment to this legislation is, of course, the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u106	Minister, the lower the interest rate, the lower the reinvestment fee in the current system. The fact that people are currently re-financing loans with interest rates in the order of 4 to 5 % still provides fairly substantial amounts. Especially in view of the great wave of refinancing that has been going on for New Year, the problem is perhaps a little less acute at the moment. Since people are currently taking out their loans at around 2%, the next question for revision will not come as soon as possible. So we need to take a good look at this. There are effective some elements that can play along. I believe that banks are currently making losses if they have to refinance these expensive loans, although this is perhaps an element which they should take a little more account of when setting rates. Of course, no one obliges them to offer 30 years' duration, so they will have to look into their own bosom. If it does come to modifications, a kicked system might be a think-pronged one. If one has a loan which can be revised every five years, this reinvestment fee must be reasonably limited. In the case of 20 years, this remuneration may indeed be higher because of the bank's commitment to a longer period of time. I think that this might be a reflection that could be taken into account in discussions with the sector and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 1882 was converted into a written question. Minister, I would like to return to item 21 of the agenda. Given Mr. Sebastian Pirlot's unavailability, Ms. Fabienne Winckel decided to table a question. The latter has exactly the same object and word for word content as Question No 1414 by Mr Pirlot. If you don't mind, I will immediately invite Mrs Winckel to ask her question. [[Minister's assessment]] I want to thank you for your flexibility, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u108	Mr President, my question is the same as that tabled by Mr Pirlot. Minister, you are obviously aware that the federal government is engaged in a process of replacing F-16 air force fighters. According to the former Minister of Defence, your colleague Pieter De Crem, the purchase of 40 aircraft would be essential to ensure the renewal of the F-16s and the credibility of Belgium on the international stage. It had also quantified the unit cost of the new hunters, whatever the type, at 80 to 100 million euros, for a life span of 30 to 40 years. Currently, five models are competing: the F-35, the F-18, the Rafale, the Gripen and the Eurofighter. Beyond purely military issues, economic issues also arise. Many Belgian companies such as SABCA and SONACA are actively involved in the F-16 project, resulting in strong economic and industrial benefits for our country. It is therefore essential to bear in mind the maintenance, on the one hand, of recognised know-how and, on the other hand, of employment. Minister, given the industrial impact and potential economic benefits, have discussions with federated entities and industry federations been initiated? If so, can you tell us what the results are? If not, do you intend to enter into these essential discussions in view of the amounts potentially committed and their possible impacts in terms of research and development, including with regard to our universities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u109	Dear Mr Winckel, industrial participation in the F-16 programme enabled the Belgian companies concerned to specialise, first, in the aeronautics, military and, later, in the civil sector. Secondly, this allowed the Belgian aviation industry to fit into the supply chains of Boeing, Airbus and other producers. It was thus able to develop as a reliable partner, focused on quality and high technology. The competent administration of my department has been actively working on this issue since the middle of last year as part of the preparatory phase initiated by the Defence and in cooperation with the relevant industrial federations BSDI, FLAG, EWA and BAG. To this end, a working group has been set up, which meets regularly to ensure coordination. However, negotiations can only take place after the government has approved the start of the procurement process, which can only take place after the Minister of Defence's plans have been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u110	Thank you, Minister. Defence is one of the last federal investment levers. The purchase of these new F-16s represents a significant cost. We are still talking about more than 4 billion euros. It is essential that Belgium can benefit from industrial spin-offs in terms of innovation, research and development. These two kinds of spillovers are really priorities for my group. I understand the setting up of a working group, but I remain concerned because your colleague, Minister Vandeput, wants to move forward quickly and talks about concluding the dossier for 2018. It is important to act, to have these two spin-offs in mind and that this remains a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-02-03-54-commissie-ic078x.u111	Minister, thank you for all the answers to the various questions. I will conclude with a quote from President De Croo who, when he closed the plenary sittings of the House, used to say in French: "The agenda is exhausted, but the Speaker is not!"
