ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u3	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I will present the report for the first reading of the bill and my colleague, Benoît Friart, will present the report for second reading. I will therefore present the report to you for the meetings on 24 and 25 March - so we have been working for a long time - and on 5, 6 and 12 May; we have had 13 actors or operators who have been interviewed. I refer you to the report for the hearing of these people. As far as the procedural elements are concerned, you have seen a brief overview of them here in plenary. Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo, in particular, will allow me, for all the procedural elements that took place during this committee, to refer also to the written report on page 4 and 5. As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to say that the request made by Messrs. Nollet and Calvo to receive the draft texts concerning the convention to be concluded between the Federal State and Electrabel was rejected in committee. Mr Nollet's request for Mr Woitrin's hearing was also rejected in committee. Mr de Lamotte's request to rehearse Mr Bens was also rejected in committee. I was forced to synthesize 127 pages of this report. I shall therefore sum up your remarks, Commissioners, and I apologise for that. The report is obviously available in its entirety on the website for those who would like to read it. I will begin with the Minister's introductory statement, which recalls the decisions taken by the Government Agreement, in particular No. 1, the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 units. The aim is also to encourage conditions of effective competition and to encourage Electrabel to examine investment opportunities; to ask Elia to continue its efforts to develop interconnection capacities; to create an energy transition fund; to transpose the 'efficiency' directive - we spoke about it at the beginning of the plenary session -; to ask for recommendations from CREG to avoid the commissioning of conventional production units; to increase the flexibility of supply; to invest in new capacities and to develop an energy vision. Here's a reminder. The government's commitment is to provide our country with an affordable and sustainable energy mix. According to the government, nuclear energy has several advantages: it allows us to limit our dependence on imported gas and oil, it has stable production costs and it is essential to achieve the climate targets set for Belgium. The minister is also talking about the second bill that we have already considered. Then we come to the opinion of the Council of State. The Minister outlined the government's responses to the Council of State's remarks regarding the lapse of certain provisions of Doel 1's authorization. I suggest that you read all of the minister's legal demonstration directly in the report. Otherwise, we're going to spend a lot more than at night. In summary, the Government considers that the Council of State incorrectly uses the notion of nullity or disqualification. The Minister recalls that the 2013 legislator expressly wanted the conditions of authorization in relation to technical operation or safety to continue while the generation of electricity would no longer be effective. The environmental purpose associated with the individual authorisation granted in 1974 is to remain indefinitely. The government recalls that the parliamentary work in Tihange 1 has made this clear. There is therefore no obligation or need for further impact studies. The Minister continues to comment on the advice of the Council of State on the annual fee to be paid by Electrabel in exchange for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The bill will be tabled so that the legislator determines before November 15, 2015 how to calculate this annual collection. That is for the Minister's summary statement. The comments of all the Commissioners followed. Mr Wollants, on behalf of the N-VA Group, who is here and was present at all the committee meetings, tells us that the following questions concerning security of supply should be answered: how will we ensure that the last megawatts of power are available when they are needed and how will we achieve this objective in consultation with neighbouring countries? He believed that discussions on those key issues had been lengthy and that supply problems had been present since 2007 in our country. It states that the extension of the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is one of the measures that must be taken to ensure security of supply. He says that it appears from the hearings that the mere importation of electricity from abroad is not a sinecure. Finally, it points out that it is not enough to provide for interconnections. There must also be a power station at the other end of the cables to actively power the network. Moreover, he explains that it is obvious that in the past winter Belgium passed through the needle chase. The economic cost of unloading is EUR 100 million per hour. Prices are also important. And he recalls that if there are 700 million euros of investment in the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, these 700 million euros will be borne by the operator and not by the consumer. In conclusion, he said that the safety criteria would have to be met and it would be the responsibility of AFCN to give its green light. On behalf of the PS Group, I recall that the decision to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 is above all an ideological decision taken by the MR and the N-VA imposed on their partners in the government coalition. This decision will not improve security of supply in the short and medium term. For next winter, Doel 1's reopening and Doel 2's extension are compromised. Legal uncertainty, security work and fuel management seriously undermine the government's schedule. I have noted that at no time has the minister, AFCN, Electrabel or Elia dared to commit to the fact that Doel 1 will be available next winter. In the medium term, I indicated that this bill had the direct effect of calling into question the 2025 nuclear release. How can we imagine the closure of seven nuclear power plants between 2022 and 2025? The feasibility of the timetable seems difficult to me. I argued that the 2013 exit schedule voted by Parliament should not be changed and that alternatives should be developed now. I have noted that the government does not demonstrate political will to develop these alternatives, as illustrated by the abandonment of the previous government's call for tenders. With regard to the legal problem of Doel 1's authorization, I deplored the government's refusal to follow the advice of the Council of State and the opinion distributed by the AFCN. I asked, on what legal analysis the minister built her legal opinion. Was the legal analysis the result of the Energy Administration, its Cabinet or a private law office? With respect to the agreement to be concluded with Electrabel, I regretted that no beacons were contained in this bill. As far as nuclear safety is concerned, I have indicated my group's concerns in this regard and insisted that all essential work on nuclear safety should be carried out before the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. I also insisted that a SALTO mission be carried out as soon as possible. In comparison to the available staff, it is important to be vigilant because the age pyramid is reversed. Mr Friart spoke on behalf of the MR Group. It endorses the Minister's approach and considers that the key objective is to ensure security of supply. However, the project is only one element in the overall energy policy. The long-term objective is also to reduce Belgium's energy dependence, since the massive import of electricity from our neighbouring countries is only a risk-free mistake and recalls that the black-out would cost EUR 120 million per hour. As regards the legal aspect of the case, the essential element lies in the preparatory work of the Act of 18 December 2013. He was surprised at the turn of this debate. On this point, the discussions on the extension of Tihange 1 did not raise as many questions. The soundness of the legal construction of the project cannot be questioned, according to Mr Friart. Furthermore, he recalled that the Nuclear Energy Study Centre had indicated that Doel 1 and Doel 2 did not pose problems with nuclear safety. Finally, he pointed out that the use of nuclear energy was the least costly option for consumers. Nor should we forget the nuclear rent paid to the Treasury. Dierick for the CD&V recalled that in 2012, the then government approved a plan to ensure our country's security of supply and that this previous government had convinced the CD&V, as it voted and that it would not be necessary to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2. But Ms. Dierick said that we must dare to ask ourselves the question of what has changed since 2013. Indeed, security of supply has systematically deteriorated. As far as nuclear capacity is concerned, there is still considerable uncertainty about the micro-cracks detected in Doel 3 and Tihange 2. This represents an additional loss of 2,000 megawatts. In addition, the call for tender for a new state-of-the-art production capacity was put on hold following comments by the European Commission. All of these capacity losses led the CD&V to support the extension of Doel 1 and 2's service life, especially as the uncertainties for Tihange 2 and Doel 3 persist. Do not decide would be exposed to shortages next winter. There is no alternative, according to Ms Dierick. The import of an additional 1,000 megawatts to the northern border will only be possible from the end of 2016. Accepting additional imports via Doel's emergency line means giving up additional jobs. She's talking about 200 Doel 1 and Doel 2 employees who would lose their jobs. According to Dr. Dierick, payability, sustainability and security of supply are the cornerstones of CD&V's energy policy. The latter will only accept the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 if the AFCN gives its green light. For Mr Wilrycx, who was speaking on behalf of the Open Vld, many debates in Parliament on security of supply and the relief plan have sufficiently demonstrated the need for short-term action. The Open Vld considers the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 to be a necessary evil. It also recommends a certain degree of realism in this debate. It is not because Belgium would close its nuclear power plants that it could prevent the import of energy produced by other foreign nuclear power plants. With the prolon-gation of Doel 1 and Doel 2, Mr Wilrycx indicates that time is being bought for the next few years to prepare the vast energy mix. Belgium must therefore also cooperate intensively in the construction of an Energy Union at European level. He draws attention to the storage of the energy he believes in. In this regard, he is thinking of the Tesla battery, the Coo pilot project, at the atoll in the North Sea. Storage is therefore of crucial importance for the Open Vld. Mr. Wilrycx therefore welcomes the second bill referred to a moment ago. He urged the Minister of Energy to work towards the implementation of an energy vision, as announced in the government agreement. He said the Open Vld group would vote for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. On behalf of Sp.a., Mr. Vande Lanotte believes that if we are facing problems today, it is not because of the 2003 Act, but because the decisions that were to give effect to this Act have been systematically annulled. He repeated it here. The bill under consideration also has the effect of overturning the 2013 decisions passed by this Parliament. Mr Vande Lanotte predicts that some parties will try in 2025, with the same arguments, to extend the life of nuclear power stations again, and he refutes the argument that we went through the needle chase last winter. It states that during the peak day, Belgium used only 76% of its electricity generation capacity. Secondly, he stressed that, unlike other countries, nuclear production was not flexible in Belgium. It is constant and cannot be adjusted according to demand. The consequence is that nuclear energy is hindering the development of renewable energies. The thesis developed by Elia during the hearings is correct: it will be difficult to meet the LOLE standard when the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants close. However, this argument is valid only on condition that the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 plants remain closed. Therefore, they propose to allow Doel 1 and Doel 2 to be extended only on condition that Tihange 2 and 3 remain closed. For Mr Vande Lanotte, there are other alternatives, including interconnection with the Netherlands, which would allow 1000 MW to be imported. As regards market price observations, due to insufficient internationalisation, these prices are too high in Belgium compared to those in neighbouring countries. This bill will only strengthen Electrabel's monopoly. Mr. Vande Lanotte does not share the Minister's legal reasoning and recalls that the permits for industrial electricity production contained in Doel 1's authorizations expired in February 2015. The operating authorisation is therefore lapsed. It is true that operating authorisations in Europe are of indefinite duration, but the Belgian Parliament has chosen to transform them into a fixed term. Finally, the AFCN must therefore provide for new production conditions, draw up a list of LTO works. Electrabel will have to comply with it. He stated that he did not understand the argument that 700 million euros of work would not alter the physical situation of the site. He also says Doel 1 will probably not be in operation for next winter. Mr Nollet, for the Ecolo-Groen Group, on security of supply, believes that neither Elia nor the Minister are counting on Doel 1 next winter. This is apparent from an oral question asked on 6 January 2015 and it seems logical in the light of Mr Bens' statements in the Echo on 30 August 2014, when he stated that the work for Doel 1 and Doel 2 would take 2 to 3 years. It is therefore not clear what is preventing the minister from holding a public consultation, or why the minister insists on a 10-year extension solution, although Doel 1 will not be ready for next winter, and other available solutions are available. Mr Nollet refuted the urgency raised by the Government and said that there were short-term alternatives, including the BRABO project, which would increase the capacity of 1,000 megawatts and the conversion of Doel 1 emergency lines, which would be easily convertible. It was a solution that had been validated by Mr Woitrin, the former director of CREG. Mr Nollet repeatedly called for a committee to be set up for a confrontation between Elia and Mr Woitrin. That was refused. As far as the legal dimension was concerned, Mr Nollet considered that the main challenge facing the issue was that of compulsory public consultation under international texts. It refers to the whole logic of a Ukrainian power plant. It considers that the Minister leads the majority in the wall by neglecting the Espoo and Aarhus Convention, as well as Directive 2011/92/EU. Mr Nollet agreed with the Council of State's comments on the authorisation of Doel 1. It considers that the project currently under discussion does not re-establish the provisions on electricity generation in the Doel 1 operating authorisation. He pointed out that AFCN itself had hesitated to address the legal question raised by the Council of State and had considered it necessary to carry out an external legal analysis, which essentially confirmed the view expressed by the Council of State. He therefore believes that this bill is not enough to revive Doel 1. He asked the Minister whether she intended to table an amendment. According to Mr Nollet, the management of this file reveals a stubbornness on the part of the minister, all the more incomprehensible as the alternatives exist. With regard to the nuclear safety component, he requested a SALTO study prior to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. Ecolo-Groen therefore has serious concerns regarding nuclear safety and Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors. On behalf of the CDH, Mr de Lamotte believes that the stability required for the electricity sector is undermined by the chaotic management of the Minister. The cancellation of the previous government's calls for tenders in relation to the commissioning of gas-fired power stations is a bad signal. He considered that the Minister had not defended the case before the European Commission, whereas the United Kingdom had won over State aid. This renunciation in the tender file is a good example of the government's lack of an energy vision. Both nuclear and renewable energies are must run. Therefore, there is a need to develop TGV power plants, but there is nothing on the horizon and no alternative is supported by this government. Mr de Lamotte expressed concern that the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 would limit investment in other energy sources. As regards the legal aspect, Doel 1 must be subject to new authorisation and cross-border consultation. The bill does not include the essential elements of the agreement to be concluded, as was the case with the extension of Tihange 1. The Minister intends to extend Doel 1 and 2 before concluding negotiations with the sector. This is a real gift to Electrabel. He also requested that a SALTO study be conducted prior to the extension. Mr Calvo, on behalf of Ecolo-Groen, talks about nuclear safety. In particular, it wants to have the list of planned LTO work and the planned schedule. He says this bill is dangerous. In the field of nuclear energy, absolute safety does not exist. The reports available on the AFCN website clearly show that the more plants age, the more incidents. It must be noted that there is a link between the lifespan of nuclear power plants and the security risk. He believes that we are approaching the moment of truth about the credibility of the AFCN and that it is in conflict with its own position and that it is putting its credibility at stake on four points that you can read in the report. He then asked for clarification on the negotiations and timing of the convention to be concluded between Electrabel and the government. In her view, he regretted that no beacons were included in the draft to guide the negotiations. With regard to Mrs Dierick's intervention on Doel 1 and Doel 2 workers, Mr Calvo considered that she was displaced and was convinced that the post-nuclear era was in favour of job creation. He pointed out that there were alternatives to the extension of nuclear power, in particular through a connection with the Netherlands. Mr. Calvo would also like to know what progress has been made in the search for a third-party investor as announced by the government and whether the timetable proposed by the CD&V, i.e. waiting for the final decision on Tihange 2 and Doel 3 before extending Doel 1 and 2. He was also surprised that the government did not table amendments after criticism by the Council of State and the AFCN. He concludes by talking about the dogmatism of the minister who goes very far. The Minister responds to all of these interventions that have just been summarized. As regards the part of the decision on security of supply, it finds that Elia's estimate is derived from the legal obligations in relation to the calculation of the LOLE (loss of load expectation) standard. It believes that what emerges from the Elia hearings shows the short- and medium-term supply difficulties of our country, especially with the uncertainties regarding Doel 3 and Tihange 2. The problem is real, concrete, measurable. The Minister's responsibility is to find solutions. The Government does not neglect any leads such as capacity expansion through interconnection with the Netherlands. Regarding the variant of the BRABO project proposed by Mr Woitrin, the Minister tabled an answer from Elia and considered that the work would be lengthy, since it would require planning permits. In terms of security of supply, she said that answers were included in her second bill. As for the previous government's call for tenders, it said that it did not offer long-term solutions, but only in the medium term, from the point of view of security of supply. He had been the subject of a lot of criticism from the Competition DG of the European Commission, CREG, DG Energy and Elia. She believes that she had to cancel this deal. With regard to the closure of thermal power plants, CREG and the European Commission are in the process of drawing up recommendations on the capacity mechanism. Regarding the negotiation with Electrabel, the minister indicated that she did not wish to mortgage her chances by revealing the state of play of the discussions. It therefore does not respond to parliamentarians' requests for timing. The option of a third-party investor is still relevant. We'll put the question to him, I guess. On the question of qualified personnel, she said that that should not be a problem. With respect to nuclear safety, the Minister indicated that a formal request was made by the AFCN to the IAEA for an accelerated SALTO study prior to 2016. As for the surplus, she believes that the various interventions on nuclear security issues are in fact unrelated to this bill that deals with the security of supply component. With regard to the legal side of the case, the Minister stated that she had drafted her own position, which had been developed within her cabinet and administration. She notes that there are two irreconcilable theses and states that her legal thesis is not as isolated as the opposition claims, since in particular Electrabel's lawyers share it. I will not repeat the minister's legal demonstration. In summary, it states that the Belgian authorisation system is in line with the European model of granting individual operating authorisations for an unlimited period of time, subject to 10-year security revisions. The Minister recalled that the extension of Tihange 1 was not considered by the AFCN to be a significant change. As a result, there is no need for public consultation. Of course, all the colleagues replied, but everyone camped in their positions. So I am not going to repeat the replies of the majority and the opposition; it would be completely useless. Twelve amendments have been tabled - you can read them in the report - and have been rejected by the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u4	Mrs Lalieux, thank you for your report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday 20 May, it was decided unanimously to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Economy to hear on certain points the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem. At this meeting, which took place the next morning, on Thursday, May 21, the minister distributed a time line outlining the various events related to the bill's review. Mr Calvo, for his part, presented an alternative time line. Subsequently, the minister traced the course of the various stages of the bill. After that, the minister recalled that the bill focused on the issue of security of supply and that it could not be ruled out that AFCN, the guardian of nuclear safety, decided not to allow the restart of the operation of reactors for the purpose of generating electricity if the safety conditions were not met. The same is true if the PSAN were to decide that an environmental impact assessment or public consultation, as authorized by the GRIPR, should be conducted. The Minister also stated that the external legal advice requested had only strengthened it in her choice. In light of the Minister's various responses, some members felt that they were insufficient. The Minister considered that she had fully informed Parliament on formal matters and invited members to continue the substantive discussions at the second reading of the draft, supported by several members of the committee. Let us now come to the meeting of the Economic Affairs Committee on 26 May, which was organised at the request of Messrs. Calvo and Nollet – we will often talk about this – for a second reading of the bill. The general discussion began on the subject of nuclear safety and the presentation by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, Mr Jambon. The Minister recalled that the agreement of the AFCN on the continued operation of the power plants was still necessary, even after the bill was passed. The Minister also noted that the PSAN has jurisdiction over the control of nuclear facilities and not over security of supply or electricity generation. The Minister also returned to the IAEA SALTO mission, recalling that Doel 1 and Doel 2 had already been subjected to a thorough IAEA review in 2010 during an OSART mission around which international experts had considered Doel's operational security to be good. He also recalled that security and its continuous improvement were priorities for this nuclear power plant. The members of the commission were then able to ask the minister their questions. Some members asked him about Operation LTO for Doel 1 and Doel 2, to which the minister replied that the final report was expected by mid-June. He then confirmed that Doel 1 and Doel 2's LTO will be part of the government's security of energy supply plan. With regard to the applicable European directives, the Minister stressed that the AFCN had put in place an internal procedure in accordance with these European directives. The minister was also questioned about the SALTO missions, to which he replied that it was a peer reviews carried out in addition to the controls imposed by the law. To the question of Messrs. Calvo and Nollet regarding the level of security that will be imposed for the extension of Doel 1 and 2, the minister responded that the highest level of security would be required. With respect to LTO work, the Minister responded that no concessions would be made. The work that AFCN will consider essential before Doel 1 and 2 is restarted will indeed have to have been completed in advance. In response to questions regarding the notification by Electrabel to the AFCN on February 13, 2015, the Minister replied that this was a notification only relating to the deactivation of Doel 1 with respect to the production of electricity for industrial purposes. To Mr. Calvo's question about the timetable for the possible restart of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, the minister replied that the government had not imposed any timetables on AFCN. In response to the various questions regarding the need for an environmental impact assessment and public consultation, the Minister responded that there were no changes to the two plants, endorsing the Minister's position and recalling that this was the government's position. Discussions continued on the issue of security of supply with the Minister's presentation. She began her presentation by commenting on the opinion of the Council of State of 8 May 2015, examining the application of the rules arising from the Espoo and Aarhus conventions, as well as the Habitat Directive and the Directive of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment. The Minister previously recalled that the thesis of the Council of State was not that of the government, which considers, on the basis of the law of 18 December 2013 amending the law of 31 January 2003 and its preparatory work, that the provisions allowing the operation of Doel 1 remain applicable. The Minister then explained that only the economic permission to generate electricity had been interrupted on February 15, 2015. She indicated that the bill could not be criticized under the provisions on environmental assessment and public consultation. In the legislative arsenal, according to the Minister, the subject matter is mainly governed by the above-mentioned 2011 Directive, the Espoo and Aarhus Conventions, which it implements, as well as by the Belgian Law of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain plans and programmes and on public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. The Minister then referred to the history of the directive and explained its scope. In particular, she indicated that the bill was not subject to environmental assessment and public consultation obligations. The Minister subsequently returned to the Habitat Directive, recalling its scope and interpretation. Discussions then focused on the alternative proposed by Mr Woitrin in a letter addressed to the Minister. Ms Dierick, supported by other members, then indicated that Elia had considered Mr. Woitrin's proposals and had considered them impractical. Several colleagues reiterated the question of considering alternative solutions. The minister referred to the arguments of Ms Dierick and other members, who had earlier stated that security of supply had deteriorated in previous legislatures and that, therefore, there was no solution without Doel 1 and 2, even if electricity was being transported from the Netherlands – a proposal by Messrs. Calvo and Nollet. Discussions subsequently shifted to legal issues. Several members again asked the Minister about the legal consequences arising from the advice of the Council of State. The minister then referred to the memo prepared by her cabinet, which commented, inter alia, on the opinion referred to by several members of the commission. Asked by Ms Lalieux about the 2011 directive and the fact that the Minister's note considers that the bill does not constitute a draft within the meaning of EU Directive 2011/92, the Minister indicated the legal reasoning followed in the note in question, as to whether or not a draft exists within the meaning of that directive. It confirmed that this was not a project and that, although the assumption that it would have been one was to be considered, the Minister considered that an environmental impact assessment and public consultation were not required because of the emergency exception. Mr. de Lamotte based his question on the measures to be taken if the plant operator decided not to undertake the promised work. The minister referred him to another bill indicating that she would like to address the coming winters in a new perspective characterized by a remodelled energy policy. It also stated that, at this stage, the operator did not give any indication that it would not intend to use the necessary investments. The agreement is expected to be concluded no later than November 30th. Ms Jadin then referred to the real risk of blackout and said that the priority was to avoid it, recalling that one hour of blackout would represent a loss of EUR 120 million per hour for the Belgian economy. The debate ended with the discussion of the articles and amendments and, of course, the vote. Thus, the bill as a whole, as legally corrected by the services with the approval of the commission, was finally passed by 10 votes to 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u6	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for many years we have been concerned about electricity production and supply. During the last eight years, the alarm bell has been called again and again. Since then, we have been heading for a serious deficit. Liberalisation in 2003 has not given sufficient impetus to further investment in our market. On the contrary, we actually made sure that we were dealing with plants that were built long before, gas plants, nuclear power stations and a number of coal plants. When it was decided in 2003 to step out of nuclear energy, there was absolutely no plan to replace that production capacity. One has decided to close, one has not decided to build. That is why we are dealing with these problems today. On that basis, one of the former directors of the CREG said at a certain time that it was recommended to buy candles; when we needed them, he didn't know that, but that we would need them, he could guarantee us that. The name of that man has already fallen a few times, it was Mr Woitrin. At the same time, we note that our market has not ensured stable prices. In 2008 we talked about prices of around 80 euro per megawatt hour. Today, effectively just today, we are talking about 44 euros. For the evening hours it is even lower, between 30 and 33 euros. That is to say, we are going to have problems, because in 2013 Europe closed down its capacity for around 20 000 megawatts of gas plants. By 2017, this could reach 110 000 megawatts. This is not surprising if we know that the cost of production of a modern gas plant is close to EUR 55 per megawatt, depending on the efficiency, the age of the plant and so on. In any case, the price is significantly higher than the market price. That, of course, means that those who have plans for a new CEEC plant today will think twice before they build it. Thought has been given, because on Elijah's web site we can see very clearly that a pack of gas plants were announced but never built. Together they are good for about 3 200 megawatts, a volume that we can only dream about today. We also had that debate at the end of 2013, and we made the same findings at the time. It is on this basis that the previous government considered it necessary to keep the Tihange 1 plant open for longer. On the basis of a calculation, it was said at that time that it was important to extend the lifespan of that plant. This was also defended in Parliament by many Members of Parliament. Even then, there was doubt as to whether extending the lifetime of Tihange 1 would be sufficient to ensure security of supply and to ensure that the light would remain on. With this information in mind, we have to see today that the situation of plants such as Objective 3 and Tihange 2 is not so bright. If a little more than 2 000 megawatts are taken out of the calculation of power stations which cannot be counted on and which are not sure whether they will re-supply electricity in the short term or in general, then we know that there is a problem. Those problems are also explained. A few weeks ago, the network operators' federation ENTSO-E called the alarm bell. She produces a beautiful report every time about what happens in summer and winter. Coincidentally, we are just before summer and she has presented her summer outlook. ENTSO-E has checked whether supply security problems are expected in Europe this summer. In September, there will be one country in trouble. One country is in trouble throughout Europe, especially Belgium. I think it is a great punishment that people still dare to deny that there is a problem. We must therefore intervene. She has just come in, Mrs Jadin, and has just said that the cost of economic damage after an hour of blackout is EUR 120 million. There's no way we can do that... I have the impression that Mr Calvo is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u7	Mr Wollants, I do not recall the fact that at the committee meeting Mr Friart and Mrs Lalieux put forward the report in detail. Someone said that our country is on the verge of energy policy and security of supply. I can't imagine. If I missed that, I'd like you to correct me. If a colleague has said that it is fine in this area and that good work has been done in recent years, then I would like to know the name of that colleague, because I think that would be a strong statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u8	At the committee meeting I said that we crawled through the eye of a needle last winter and I thought that Mr Vande Lanotte contradicted me. He's confirming that here now. That's why I'm quoting that here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u9	Mrs Lalieux asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u10	Mr President, I was not really quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u11	Mr Wollants, I have tried to make a detailed report so that everyone can remember what has been said. Indeed, Mr. Vande Lanotte said that only 76% of our energy production was used on the day that there were difficulties this winter. But no one has called into question the difficulties regarding security of supply. That must be respected. Respect for a debate is respect for the words that everyone has spoken. The opposition said that the solution you are proposing is not a good solution. We'll explain it later. No one said that there were no problems in Belgium with regard to security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u12	(...) about the second part of my speech. What Mrs Lalieux said was very complementary, for which I am grateful. However, I would like to ask you a third question, Mr Wollants. If we both believe that security of supply is critical, that we should keep an eye on this, that we do not have the margins that a prosperous country such as Belgium deserves, then I find it difficult to accept that you are defending this policy and making a fervent plea to develop the slopes of Objectives 1 and 2. That is a piste on which you have said in the media that it is not certain that Objectives 1 and 2 will work in the coming winter. Then I do not understand why you do not say with us that there are other slopes and why they are not examined with equal assertiveness. Why is no more being done around these thermal power stations, with more capacity than Objectives 1 and 2, which will close this year? Why is this no longer the case if you consider security of supply as important as we do? We should take steps and not put our eggs in the basket of a very uncertain slope. I'm quoting you from De Standaard about two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u13	Mr Calvo, it's an en-en-story. I'm just in the middle of my introduction. This means that a number of pages will follow and that I will probably say a lot of things that you will not like. I will talk about these matters in that regard too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u14	Fundamental matters can be included in an introduction. Why is the only extension of the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 laid down here today for the time being? Aren't those other steps being taken? Why can't you convince Mrs Marghem to work much harder on those other points? You're usually very persuasive, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u15	I don't know if you can consider our conversations convincing, but okay. There's a lot of business going on. At the same time as what we are discussing, we had a whole debate a little over an hour ago, and then we moved on to the draft on demand management, an energy transition fund and energy efficiency. I cannot imagine you missed that debate. Those are also measures we are taking. There will be other measures. I will list in a moment what direction we should go with that, but I think that everything has its place in a statement. In this respect, you will have ample opportunity to criticise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u16	(...) I haven't heard your statement yet. So I can't estimate it, but I would like to ask you whether Objectives 1 and 2 will work in the coming winter? You do not have to give the answer right now, but I hope that the answer will be given somewhere in your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u17	Carry on, Mr. Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u18	I'm taking it back. I believe that we must shoulder our responsibilities to get energy policy back on track. Part of it is indeed the responsibility to ensure that we look back at the core exit. We will come back to that on parole. We know that this draft is a first step. In any case, nuclear safety is at the top of the list. In other words, the green light of the FANC is absolutely necessary before it can continue. The FANC clearly has the task of looking at nuclear safety, not security of supply, because that is not its job. That is the way it should be, because it is absolutely not intended that these two things should contaminate or be mixed together. In the coalition agreement, we have indeed put forward a number of proposals in terms of security of supply. You are right to point that out, Mr Calvo. After all, we are investigating a capacity market with our neighbouring countries in order to move forward in the longer term and to get that capacity. We're re-evaluating the strategic reserve. How will we deal with this in the future? How are we supposed to adjust it? We're looking at emergency generators to take them into the story. We are looking at how they can participate in flexibility. This also applies to emergency generators operated by the federal government itself. Initiatives must be taken to keep thermal power stations in service longer. We need to look at demand management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u19	Initiatives must therefore be taken to keep thermal power stations active. Can you clarify that for me a little bit? We debated this on Sunday in a television studio, and you put our proposal on the subject, to give the regulator a place in that debate and in that decision-making, rather gratuitously as expropriation. What is your alternative to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u20	We have to compare the operation of the power stations here with those abroad. There is no level playing field for gas plants today. That is one of the measures that we need to examine. I do not think what should be done. I have specifically added to your proposal. The regulator shall not prohibit the closure of the last power plant at the time of security of supply. If not, there will be a rush to the exit and the last gas plant that wants to close is for the trouble. Who wants to build another power station in this country with such provisions? This entrepreneur must no longer close down the plant that is causing the company problems. Today you will find no one with such a business model that at some point one can only produce and carry the losses, without knowing whether one can keep one's head above water. That does not seem to me to be a healthy way of getting on the market. Nor can we attract investors to set up their power stations here with us. Investors who have plans to build a power plant will implement them in countries where the conditions are best. That won't be with us, I'm afraid. So I don't like that approach. The link to the capacity market is indeed there. If power stations can be compensated not only for the electricity they produce, but also for the stability they bring, then the business model of, for example, the gas plants becomes much more interesting. We need to look into this concretely in order to achieve results. I do not believe in a policy whereby the government strictly prohibits the closure of power stations, with which the stocking is finished. This seems to me, especially in the long term, to be a path which makes it quite difficult to attract investors who offer such capacity in this country. I come to my comments on the list. We must encourage storage through concrete initiatives. The strengthening of energy efficiency is absolutely an important condition for this. The development of a long-term energy vision means that we are looking into the future twenty to twenty-five years later, finally indicating what we want and ensuring that we find partners for our wishes, so that everyone has their place in a stable story. We had the debate not so long ago, so we all know that it has been a little different every year. We have already learned that the only thing we can do to create stability is to develop and apply an energy vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u21	Mr Wollants, a substantive debate has been called for. We are therefore happy to accept that invitation. Part of our criticism of the decision is that it makes a very strong advance on an energy vision. By shifting the concrete of more than 50% of nuclear energy in the mix until 2022 and actually everything in the direction of 2025, the energy future is determined very strongly. Perhaps you can also imagine that. After all, you indicate very strongly what the energy mix will be until 2025. You explain that the current government will be working on an energy vision. Does that also mean that choices have to be made in the field of technology in this energy vision, or do you believe that the law on the nuclear exit is sufficient? It is not quite clear to me at the moment what your position is on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u22	Mr Calvo, choices can absolutely be made. If, however, the intention is to close a number of power stations earlier in the light of the nuclear exit, despite the fact that all kinds of agreements have been reached, that is a bad thing. Why do we need to develop this vision now? We must do this first of all because if an investor wants to build a gas power plant today, the average lead time of such an idea is seven years. This also means that we cannot make an energy vision, then wait for seven years and see what happens before those plants may or may not get there. That does not seem to me to be the right way of doing things. After all, we know that we will be in trouble in the coming winters anyway. When we look at the reports made by Elijah, for example in connection with setting up the strategic reserve, we see, first of all, the necessary amount of strategic reserve growing year after year over the next three winters. I am afraid that we cannot afford not to extend the opening time of Objectives 1 and 2, but rather to allow ourselves to continue. Even when Objective 1 and Objective 2 remain open, we are still talking about three winters, in 2017-2018, about a strategic reserve of over 3 000 megawatts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u23	Mr. Wollants, let's get this energy vision straightened out. I think it is positive that an energy vision also means that technological choices must be made. You say that the calendar that is now being drawn up will not be revoked, because there will be a breach of contract. Does that mean, for you, that the government's energy vision must explicitly include the fact that there can no longer be nuclear energy after 2025? After all, I assume that your energy vision goes beyond 2025, sometime until 2030 or 2035. Are you committed to realizing the core exit in 2025 within that broader energy vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u24	Mr Calvo, the debate on the energy vision has yet to take place. You ask me what I do or do not want to discuss, but that is not the intention of a debate on an energy vision. You say that you want to talk about an energy vision, but you say immediately which elements are not allowed in it. Just like those are predators.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u25	I'm just asking you to keep certain things in that view. My question is actually very simple. You announce an energy vision and you are a member of the majority's largest party. Your programme included the construction of new nuclear power plants and you have proposed legislation to keep nuclear power plants open for 60 to 70 years. In this context, it is not strange that I ask whether or not a nuclear trip in 2025 will be explicitly included in that energy vision? You say you have no problem with making technological choices. Well, then it seems logical to me that the core exit should be included in that vision in 2025. If you have difficulty with a nuclear trip in 2025, I would ask you to say so in so many words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u26	In a debate on the energy vision, we talk about all possible forms of technology. I don't have a problem with that. Do you? I have no problem with a debate on an energy vision in which all possible issues are discussed. The question is whether you have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u27	Mr Wollants, at a time when the law on the core exit is being debated for the 37th time, I think it is important to clarify a specific calendar. You do not want to give that clarity, of which you are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u28	As a final measure, the extension of the life of the plants is also covered by Objective 1 and Objective 2. If we put the whole package together, I think we are going to charge for just about all the factors in our energy system. These factors are also absolutely necessary, because we know that we will certainly not have an easy time in terms of energy supplies over the next five years. I've also heard here that no one really contradicts this. This bill is not only about this winter, but also about the needs we will have during many winters. Next winter there will be about 1 300 megawatts less available from the classic power stations, but also in the years after that forecast will not really improve. However, the extension of the life cycle of nuclear power plants is sensitive, as we know. In this hemisphere there are people who have approved previous extensions against their will, others did not believe that the core exit was feasible. This, of course, means that much debate is being held on this subject, more than on other subjects. Many hours of hearings and discussions have preceded this plenary session. That is also a trend break with the previous extension because then the opposition asked for five speakers to be heard and they heard exactly zero. This time, you can find that in the report, and we have heard 16 speakers. Moreover, we have spent several dozen hours on this subject. That's what I call a thorough approach. Of course, not everyone is entirely in agreement with what we should actually do or is not all happy with the present extension. The reasons for this are very different and sometimes also ideologically inspired. The arguments are then supported by a number of arguments, some of which need to be put in a certain perspective. I will try to deal with some of these arguments in order to help the debate a little. Firstly, the extension of power stations would be at the expense of renewable energy. We heard the figures from the Federal Planning Office during the hearings, which make it clear that there will be at least as much renewable energy as Objective 1 and 2 remain open as when they close. In fact, the Federal Planning Office is even more optimistic than the renewable energy sector itself when it comes to the percentage of green electricity we will have. The idea that nuclear power stations will reduce the amount of renewable energy or that renewable energy will have to be shut down when nuclear power stations are running is therefore also questionable. After all, the third energy package, imposed by Europe and translated into our own legislation, clearly states that renewable energy always has priority. Then why the fear? Secondly, the EUR 700 million to be invested is being taken out of society; money that society would invest better in renewable energy. First of all, this EUR 700 million comes from the operator and not from the general budget. Nor does it end up in the electricity users' bill. As with Tihange 1, a fee is also set to be paid by the operators. Even with the depreciation of the investment one is even lower than the market price. At the end of 2013, we had the same debate. Then Bruno Tuybens stood at this place saying that we would pay for our energy policy. I am a little more realistic than Mr Tuybens, but I do think there is a contribution that can be used to carry out an energy policy. We can discuss this compensation and I know that some people have a different opinion on it. Some parties talk about astronomical amounts, perhaps with the intention of making the whole uneconomic. It could be. I have the impression that we should not be too afraid of the EUR 700 million. I heard the committee meetings say that the consumer is coughing up the EUR 700 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u29	If Electrabel has to invest EUR 700 million, do you assume that there is some kind of cash in Paris where the EUR 700 million will be paid out and that this amount will not be passed on to the consumer? You don't think that's in the invoice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u30	Mr Calvo, for the record, you have maintained us on several occasions about the fact that Electrabel collects usury profits with these deprecated power stations, which are full of money dragging it into Paris. Well, if that investment of EUR 700 million happens, there will indeed be room for compensation and perhaps they will have to pocket less. It could be. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u31	The debate is getting more interesting. Mr Jambon, you know that we are an incredible fan of the substance of the debate. To our great frustration, that has been very difficult over the past few weeks and months. In the field of nuclear safety, that went better, I admit. I told you before that you were the light in the darkness. If I had been told at the swearing-in that I would ever say that again, I wouldn't have believed it. You mentioned nuclear interest, pockets full of money to Paris...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u32	You've always said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u33	All right, but you used that argument to put your story on the table that this will not be passed on to the consumer. That's how I understood it. Then, of course, you also agree with us, if you accept that assumption, that nuclear interest should be increased. It's one or the other. Otherwise, you're gonna like those bags full of money, too. However, if you take over that assumption, you will also have to work with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u34	Several things play in this story. Firstly, we were certainly able to discuss nuclear interest extensively in the previous legislature. We know there is. We have both tabled legislative proposals to recover part of it. I kept it on a substantial part, you wanted an astronomical part. Maybe a little more than a part. Today we know that market prices have changed and that the amount of nuclear interest has become more limited. However, we also know that there is still a margin between the effective production price and the selling price. At the time, you also read the Tihange 1 Convention and the corresponding draft law in detail. We have, together with Mr Wathelet, reviewed the prices of all that had to be charged. At the same time, it was established that there was a margin to distribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u35	I would like to remind Mr Calvo that the price of electricity is determined by a stock exchange and that a company that produces it must do so in a cost-effective manner. So, if Electrabel decides to invest 700 million, it's because it can make it profitable and the price of electricity is at an acceptable level. Otherwise, she wouldn't. One billion, for example, would not be profitable. We must therefore not consider in absolute terms, but in relation to the profitability that a power plant can have and to the exchange that sells electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u36	The key question is how the government will ensure that these 700 million are not passed on to the consumer because it removes all safety nets from the price of electricity. Indeed, this government does not like the price freeze imposed by the previous government and is now calling into question the safety net. He has renewed it, but in his government statement he believes that by 2016, there will be no safety net that controls prices for consumers and businesses. Will this government block electricity prices as the previous government did, so that consumers and businesses do not pay more for their electricity? You didn't agree by the way. You voted against it, Mr. Wollants. It is easy to say that this will not be reported to the consumer, but with what mechanism? That's the question I'm asking you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u37	For the record, we're talking about Target 1 and Target 2, which are in the hands of Electrabel, Electrabel can sell that power. They are still in the story of the merit order, they are still in the story of the wholesale market. If Electrabel suddenly raised prices sharply, why would one buy electricity from Electrabel? Why should we do that? Is that mandatory? That's not mandatory. Let us be serious. This does not mean that no other companies in the spot market can buy energy, that market is not limited by Belgium; it is an international market.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u38	The measurement of the safety net is postponed until the end of 2016, early 2017, with an evaluation. Remember, I told you! An evaluation is well planned. You are well aware that it will take place before and after, and that there are discussions about the fact that the price is at this point framed. That, too, is valid. We talked about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u39	Mr President, I would like to respond to the minister. If my memory is good, and I think that is the case, in the government statement, it is stated that, in any case, the safety net cannot be extended for more than two years. You repeated it in committee. You extended it to 2017. I will find these documents and question you in committee if you come back to these statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u40	As regards the mechanism, the government agreement is indeed clear that it will cease this legislature and that it will be extended for a limited period. Madam Secretary, you're just saying it's going to be reviewed? By definition, it will be terminated. It will be evaluated, but the coalition agreement says you will stop. You just said the opposite. Nor is it prohibited to change the coalition agreement, Mrs Marghem. If you change the coalition agreement, that is not a problem either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u41	May I finish my reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u43	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u44	I have the extract in front of my eyes. I quote the government agreement: "The government takes note of the report of the National Bank and the CREG on the safety net for energy prices. It will take the initiative to extend the current mechanism provisionally for one year. The mechanism will be abandoned by 31 December 2017 at the latest." "At the latest"! This is the verbatim of the government agreement! I can be told that this is not the right version, but it is the public version.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u45	Mr Nollet, I am not embarking on argutia like some, and I am able to acknowledge that my memory may be missing. You heard that there was an evaluation. At least let things be done in relation to the evaluation! You will recall that we have had a discussion about control before and after prices, and all this is not trivial, but we will resume in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u46	This means that the lines of the government agreement can be moved. Contrary to what is written, there is no longer a need for the mechanism to be abandoned by 31 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u47	I didn't say that! The subject is closed!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u48	Mr President, I have shown that I have tried to work on the substance and not to add diapers for hours of committee. But you know how much the price is essential for the competitiveness of our companies and for all households in terms of their purchasing power. You know how much the parties that served in the previous government worked on this price and how much, thanks to the binding measures taken not by the sector, because it had made no effort, but by the government (price blocking and safety net) the price has fallen for all. It was a fundamental policy of the previous government. In the government agreement – this was repeated in the presentation of the minister's policy note and in the budget debate – we said that the safety net was paramount. Indeed, if today I hear that the government is already returning to its mark, it is so much better for the consumer! I believe that the safety net is essential for the control of tomorrow's prices and for the government's policy, particularly on nuclear power, not to turn against the consumer and our companies. If I hear today that the content of the government agreement on an end to the safety net by 31 December 2017 is called into question at the latest, which was written black on white, then so much the better! In that case, I would like a firm and official statement from this government on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u49	Thank you for that contribution. One element that also plays in it is the following. When we have to deal with less nuclear power, we will have to use a number of other power stations. Some of these plants are not running today because they are too expensive, because the market price is too low to produce with them. If we want to address these power stations, the market price will have to rise, which will also increase the price for families and businesses, even a lot more than if we continue to work with the power stations that are the subject of this debate. Mr Calvo, studies have also been published on this subject. We also know that at the time of a number of nuclear power stations being shut down, the price has increased. You only have to check the CREG board table, which can be consulted online. You can see what has happened to prices on our market since then. In principle, prices come together as long as there is sufficient interconnection capacity, but there is no such capacity today. Colleagues, I had actually started my math.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u50	Mr Wollants, you're starting to look a little bit like the Minister. You have just said that the whole debate has begun and that the EUR 700 million will not be passed on to the consumer. Now you answer that question that in another scenario prices would also rise. Did you say it the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u51	I say that when these power stations are closed down, another, more expensive power station acts as a marginal power station, leading to a higher market price. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u52	(...) I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u53	Please explain to me later, Mr Vande Lanotte. I'm looking forward to your lecture. Colleagues, this EUR 700 million could also have been invested by the operator in, for example, offshore windmills. That's an option. We need to know what we're buying for that. According to CREG figures, EUR 700 million is for 184 megawatts of turbines at sea, delivering just under 10% of Objective 1 and 2 energy. Even on their total lifetime, these turbines will only produce as much electricity as Target 1 and 2 in two years time. That is where the difference lies, and that also corresponds to the difference in cost, which we must be very aware of. Interconnection capacity is often cited as if it solves everything. We'll bring in the Woitrin line right away. That statement has been put forward over and over again, as if we would no longer need those power stations with more interconnection capacity. Yesterday we heard that statement again in committee. At the same time one forgets to mention that one can lay that cable, but that there is no guarantee that there will also be electricity on the other side. Elia made this clear in his report on the strategic reserve. Last year they said that interconnection capacity was limited to 3,500 megawatts, while at the same time the underlying capacity to power stations was also around 3,500 megawatts. Now it's very different. The argument they take is that it is actually only about 2 700 megawatts of power stations that are available. Even if the technical capacity increases to 4 500 megawatts, which is foreseen over the following years, it is assumed that only 2 700 megawatts can be imported. This means that it is also a bit that ratio: extending the life of these plants provides more certainty than increasing the interconnection capacity, the slope Woitrin. However, we will have to increase this interconnection capacity anyway, which seems important to me. It is therefore wise to continue to examine all these slopes, even when this draft has been approved. After all, we will have to put all these things together. So the reaction that whoever pays the most for the power gets it doesn't really matter. In many cases, during a very large part of the year, that is true, but as soon as one comes close to that EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour, that story stops. At that point in time, the market is no longer playing and we get into the story of the strategic reserve that is being activated, and all that power at the same price goes out the door. It is not correct to say that a higher amount would lead to that power still coming to this country. That's not right. We have a number of customers who offer on that market and they will accept any price that is demanded, because they always need that power. Buy, no matter what . If you have electricity coming to us from the Netherlands via Germany over France, there is very little chance that it will arrive in our country if there are power shortages in northern France. We have to be careful with that. If we look at everything about the different opinions we have received and the environmental impact reports, then there have indeed been different opinions. However, this design is the best thing that can happen today. We have heard the different readings opposite each other and the line of the Council of State has shifted somewhat over the process in tone. It is now very clear that the operating licence is still there and therefore there is no reason to ask for another one. That theorem was already in the motivation of the design. We also see that the ruling of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels follows that line. In the meantime, it is clear that this is neither a position nor a decision, it is a judgment at first instance and in opposition. I have no idea what that means, but that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u55	The bottom line is that in the case in which Greenpeace stood before the federal state and the FANC, Anouk Janssens acted, no stranger to our committee. It is an interesting judgment, because the same legal issue that was raised in the draft was cited in that case. As regards the operating licences, for example, the court confirmed that they were not brought to an end by the old law or by the law adapted in 2013. According to the court, the time has now also come for the deactivation of Objective 1, at which the FANC counsel made it clear that this reactor is still being operated for the very simple reason that fuel rods are still present and that it cannot be left unattended. In short, the judgment states that none of these reactors have ever ceased operation and the authorisation has been granted for an indefinite period, so there is no renewal of the licence. With regard to the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions, it is stated that the plaintiff, in this case Mrs Janssens, who acted for Greenpeace, does not suggest that there is a direct effect of those conventions, which puts a number of things in perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about security of supply, we know, and in the meantime it has also been confirmed by several colleagues from the opposition, that we are not in a good position. Families and companies are today concerned about the switch-off plan and about the further development of our energy supply. Madam Minister, you do have a lot of work to do to straighten this all out. Steps must be taken forward. The energy policy that our citizens have been entitled to for many years now must finally be implemented. This design is just a small piece of it. My group supports this draft. At the same time, we are absolutely aware that this must not be allowed to continue and that there are many other things that need to be done. Let us make progress in this House as quickly as possible. Let us ensure that these matters are discussed so that we can continue with all the elements I have just mentioned, because we will need all those elements to survive the coming winters. As I have already said, the 866 megawatts of Objectives 1 and 2 are important, but if at the same time more than 3 000 megawatts of strategic reserve have to be maintained in order to survive, then we know that we must also do other things. Reports such as those of ENTSO-E, which indicate that we are the worst in Europe, I really do not want to see here anymore. That will not be easy, because making up for this will take many years and will take difficult political decisions. However, I believe that this majority is prepared to take these steps so that we can finally do what we need to do, in particular: keep the light.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would really like to thank all the services that have worked hard to ensure that we have reports, and that have been with us for many nights. I am thinking in particular of interpreters. I would also like to thank, more personally, my colleague Frédérick Pirard for the excellent work he has done and for accompanying me throughout this debate. The Fukushima accident, the thousands of cracks discovered in the tanks of Tihange 2 and Doel 3, the sabotage of Doel 4. There's nothing to do with it. Sixty hours of parliamentary debates which show that the extension of Doel 1 and 2 is ineffective for next winter and counterproductive in the medium term. There's nothing to do with it. Three opinions from the Conseil d'État and even a fourth that we received yesterday in French, as well as an opinion from AFCN: all assassins for a legally indefensible bill. There's nothing to do with it. Nothing is done about it, the ideologues of the 'nuclear whole' are running down their heads, no matter whether we go straight to an avalanche of legal disputes. It doesn't matter if this entails risks to nuclear security and security of supply. It doesn't matter if credible alternatives exist. There's nothing to do with it. Those who live in the nuclear dogma are imperturbable. For the PS group, the path taken by the government is irresponsible. And we fear that the citizens will pay the price next winter. Colleagues, when the majority decided to reverse the closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2, I had denounced a purely ideological decision. This is a purely ideological decision because it offers no solid solution to guarantee security of supply. Our electricity supply will not be guaranteed for next winter and it is not the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 that will allow us to avoid a new hot winter. Mr Wollants, no actor questioned in our committee, neither Electrabel, nor Elia, nor AFCN, nor the Deputy Prime Minister, nor the Minister assured us that Doel 1 and Doel 2 would be in operation next winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u57	The primary objective of this bill is to continue the work with respect to the government agreement, but if this bill is not voted on, you are right, Mrs.Lalieux, there is certainly no risk of extending Doel 1 or putting Doel 2 back into operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, it is best to ask for the floor first. The floor is yours, Mr. Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u59	Mrs Lalieux, for the record, I said myself that it is not absolutely certain that Objective 1 or 2 will run in the coming winter. So we are saying the same thing in that regard. It is the first important step we must take to enable them to turn. The next step will indeed be the FANC's opinion and the necessary investments. Mr Nollet will be able to confirm that we can rely on him in that regard......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u60	Mr President, I fully agree with Mr Wollants. We never gave the guarantee that Doel 1 and Doel 2 would work next winter. Our position has always been that the first step was this bill and that we would continue to work on other tracks. But the government's responsibility for energy supply is, of course, indispensable. That's not a new fact, Mrs. Lalieux. You know as well as I do that since 2009, we have known that we may face a problem of electricity supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u61	Mrs Cassart, I spoke earlier – perhaps you were not present in this Chamber – to say that no one, whether in committee or in this House, has ever called into question the fact that we are facing security and supply problems. Furthermore, you must accept that we may disagree with your project and with the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The whole scenario for next winter is based on this extension, otherwise we would not have discussed it for 60 hours in committee and then discuss it in this House. If the government and the majority wanted to show some seriousness, they would recognize that opting for an extension of Doel 1 by misusing legal advice and not taking the time to organise a consultation, all this for us to face problems this winter, endangers all the energy players as well as all the alternative solutions that have been put on the table for months. That is what I am blaming this government. I would point out that the previous government, with the exception of a majority party, thought correctly that, in order to guarantee nuclear security, we could simply keep Tihange 1 and close Doel 1 and Doel 2. It did not take six months to reverse this decision because, in line with what was included in the MR and N-VA program, for the government, nuclear is the main solution to ensure the provision of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u62	Mr President, I have had time to look for the texts that contain my discussions with the Minister on whether Doel 1 would be functional or not for next winter. I therefore take up the report of 6 January, which appears on the House's website. In response to a question I asked her, the minister said: "What I believe is that Doel 1 will not be functional for next winter, but for the next one." I still decided to re-examine her so that she would confirm what she had said. In response to a new question dated March 3, the Minister replied: "I would like to confirm to the honourable member that Doel 1 was considered an out-of-service unit for the 2015-2016 winter period." When, on 24 March, Elia was received at the hearing – you did not make the report earlier, but I will quote this excerpt – as far as the nuclear park is concerned, Elia says, I quote, "Elia is part of the principle that Doel 3 and Tihange 2 would be unavailable, as well as Doel 1." These are three factual elements in the reports announced by the government and Elia, which confirm that Doel 1 will not be available. The chairman of the commission is here to testify. We can be told everything we want now, but the facts are the ones I recalled and the reports are public.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u63	I obviously agree with my honourable colleague, Mr Nollet. I will recall here three major elements in an attempt to convince Mrs Cassart that the availability of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is in jeopardy for the coming winter: the availability of fuel, the completion of the work necessary for nuclear safety and the legal insecurity created by this bill. First of all, the problem of fuel...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u64	As far as fuel is concerned, it has been specified by Mr. Van Troeye that the reservation had been made. The fuel is ready for this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u65	Mr Friart, I was going to elaborate on what I said about fuel. Maybe you could ask me later. Would you like me to elaborate on my arguments? First of all, I will tell you that the fuel has been depleted for the Doel 1 reactor since 15 February. You agree with me on this point. Electrabel certainly took options to get fuel. You see that I am joining you, Mr Friart, but it is not known at this stage that this fuel will be available for 2015 and 2016. If I have to tell you all of Mr. Nollet's speeches at all hearings, or if he finds the CEO's words, he will. The latter actually told us that it was ordered. He told us that he would confirm his order when there was a government decision. But Electrabel's boss was careful not to provide any guarantee in this direction at the hearing in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The fuel problem will also arise, Mr. Friart, for Doel 2. We forget that in all our debates, but Doel 2's fuel will be exhausted in November. It is true that the Doel 2 reactor was to be shut down for a few weeks in the summer to save this fuel and allow it to operate beyond November. But this scenario has not yet been confirmed by Electrabel. The question therefore also arises for this plant. At this point, Mr Friart, we still have no answer – unless you have received one from Electrabel, in which case I would like to hear from you in this regard – to the question of whether this fuel will be present in Doel 1 and whether there will be enough in Doel 2 or whether, this summer, the latter will be stopped. But, Mr Friart, I will reassure you that fuel is a secondary problem compared to the other two major problems that I am going to raise now, namely nuclear safety and the legal uncertainty of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of reactors beyond the 40-year period involves extensive youth and safety work. It is a matter of safety for plant workers, for the entire population and for the environment. As we have seen in our committee discussions, the AFCN, as well as the International Atomic Energy Agency, recommend that a number of work be done before – I repeat: before – the extension of nuclear reactors or before Doel 1 is restarted. Of course, given the late decision of the current government, this security work is still not being carried out for Doel 1 and Doel 2. I would like to repeat here what I said in committee: this work, which was deemed necessary as a result of post-Fukushima stress tests, was not carried out entirely for Doel 1 and Doel 2 for the simple reason that the previous government had decided to shut down these plants in 2015. As a result, the AFCN felt that it was not necessary to carry out this work. For example, the installation of a more efficient filter system on Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors has not yet been carried out. This system – I remind all colleagues – allows, in the event of overpressure in the reactor building, to bring pressure down in a controlled manner in order to avoid an explosion like that of Fukushima. So these are more than important work. It is essential that all the work essential for safety be carried out before the extension. However, we have concerns about this, because we already see that security requirements are being reduced in the face of pressure from the government. This is the case for the SALTO study, Deputy Prime Minister, which should have been carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency. This study allows for international control of nuclear power plants in the extension phase. This monitoring mission must be carried out before the extension, and not after. This was done in Tihange 1. We recently learned from you, Deputy Prime Minister, that this would not be the case for Doel 1 and Doel 2. It is therefore a fundamental change in the policy of successive Belgian governments not to do a SALTO study before an extension. This is a totally regrettable change in security. The statements of Mr Bens – who has all my concern – who completely minimized the Fukushima accident by telling us that there were only two dead, do not guarantee today the independence and confidence that AFCN must have in relation to parliamentarians and all citizens. Refusing that before any extension, we don't have a SALTO analysis proves that the government is playing with the safety of citizens. How long will this work take? Mr. Minister of the Interior, you have been unable to answer us. You don't know yet, you don't have the list of works because you're not the one who determines them, I'm giving it to you. But even without a precise timetable, I think it can reasonably be expected that it will take many months. At the end of August, the Director of AFCN stated that this work could take up to three years. We were also told that the cost of this work was estimated at EUR 700 million. It is obvious that work of this magnitude takes some time. If the AFCN does not allow itself to be put under pressure, if it requires the completion of essential security work before extension, I believe that this is a new element that tells us that the availability of Doel 1 and Doel 2 as of next winter is more than compromised. Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned two of the three main reasons why Doel 1 and Doel 2 are unlikely to be available next December. I have spoken to you about the problem of fuel and the work of youth and security, let us turn to the problem of legal certainty. As soon as we became aware of the first opinion of the Council of State dated February 16, 2015, it became clear that the government bill could not remain as it was. From its first opinion, the Conseil d'État indicated that the provisions of the authorisation allowing Doel 1 to generate electricity had lapsed since 15 February 2015. It is indeed the strict application of the 2003 law on the exit of nuclear energy as amended in 2013. As a result, Doel 1 must be the subject of a new application for production authorisation or the draft law must be amended to provide for a specific procedure for granting an authorisation or other appropriate specific regime. It is written black and white in the opinion of the Council of State. The government decided not to follow the lines proposed by the Council of State and simply amended its bill by adding a small sentence. At the hearings held at the end of March by our committee, I asked the Director of AFCN about the comments made by the Council of State. I asked him if the little sentence was enough. The Director General was unable to confirm whether the project was legally sound, but, under pressure from my colleagues and myself, he explained that the PSAN was going to conduct a legal analysis to see if the government's project was on track. A month later, at the beginning of May, we learned about this very severe legal analysis of the bill. The lawyers consulted by the AFCN made it clear that the bill must be amended. It must be amended to grant Doel a new production authorisation. An amendment is also necessary to comply with international and European legislation, the Espoo and Aarhus Conventions, which require an environmental impact study with the organisation of a public survey. From then on, the only responsible attitude was to amend or withdraw the bill. Unfortunately, however, Minister Marghem and the government have persisted. It was then the turn of the famous opinion of the law firm Janson to suggest improvements to the government's text. And finally, on 20 May, a last nail is planted in the coffin of this bill: a second opinion of the Council of State, totally murderous, arrives in the hands of parliamentarians, after many trips. This opinion, which the minister had somewhat concealed for two weeks, is clear. The government's bill is not legally valid. Before extending nuclear reactors, the government is obliged to organise an environmental impact assessment and a public inquiry. The Council of State and the AFCN are categorical. The government itself has doubted its bill, since it has tried, as has been repeated enough in committee, to amend its bill itself by trying to play with retroactivity. This was a total illusion, counterproductive at the legal level. Has there ever been a Council of Ministers that amends a project that it believes is legally sound or is trying to do so? If you were so convinced of the legal soundness of your bill, there would have been no attempt to amend it at the government level. I am sorry to quote him again because he is hospitalized: when the boss of the AFCN talks about a somewhat bizarre legal acrobatics, it does not help to ensure the legal soundness of this bill. All of this indicates that many legal remedies will be brought against this bill. Mr Wollants, you quoted the judge who delivered a judgment on Greenpeace's appeal. He did not comment on European internal directives. So what the Council of State has said on the whole issue of European directives, as well as AFCN and all parliamentarians, is still complete. This ruling does not legally support the bill before us today. Legal procedures are obviously likely to delay and hypothesize the extension of these two nuclear reactors and their availability for next winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u66	Before I talk about the legal opinion, I want to read to you what Mr. Van Troeye said at his hearing: "As far as the fuel required for Doel 1 is concerned, an option was taken for delivery in the course of November. The option was taken to be sure to be ready, if necessary, for next winter."
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u67	One option, Mr. Friart!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u68	Exactly an option, of course! Which means that at any time, they can always lift the option and buy the fuel, the fuel. That is no problem. As far as the legal option is concerned, I would like to stress the judgment of the court of first instance against Greenpeace, which is in line with the minister's thesis. In this judgment, the court clearly distinguishes, on the one hand, the authorization to operate and, on the other hand, the permission to produce electricity. All of this corroborates the minister's thesis, which was supported by the opinion of Janson and the opinion of Xirius. You also forget the third opinion of the Conseil d'État which also joins the minister's thesis, distinguishing the authorization to operate and the permission to produce electricity. So we have to complete the story and go to the end! You obviously interpret it as you wish. I think that, since the beginning of the committee, we have never agreed, since everyone has their own interpretation. However, I note that the minister's interpretation since the beginning has been corroborated many times thereafter and more and more often. This means that this thesis is on the way, and more and more so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u69	It's the Coué method.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u70	Mr Friart, if you want us to tell you that there is a difference between the operating authorisation and the production authorisation, we will tell you and we will tell you again. There's never been a problem between us on this. There is indeed a difference. What the Council of State says, what the Federal Nuclear Control Agency says, what we say, and what is also said outside, is that in order for you to have a new power generation authorization, you need to go through an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. Don't try to say that we think something else! There are two different dimensions in the authorization. What the Council of State says, including in its third version, is that the part related to electricity generation is obsolete. I know that one article mentioned this a little differently. But go back to the source documents, i.e. the advice of the Council of State. The first one, already, speaks of the lapse of power generation. The second one does. And the third on our amendments too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u71	Have you always followed the advice of the Council of State when you were a minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u72	Of course not! I've already explained it to myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u74	Mr. Ducrame, Mr. Nollet confessed. Besides, you forgot once. He confessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u75	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u76	You must never hide!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u77	We simply say that the opinion of the Council of State has evolved. Read it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u78	That's not true, he hasn't changed. On this point, the opinion of the Council of State has not changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u80	But explain it to us! Give us the extract where his opinion has evolved regarding the lapse of the power generation authorization. You may read this in a newspaper article, but it's not correct. The opinion of the Council of State has not evolved on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u81	I'm not going to repeat everything Mr. Nollet said. Mr. Miller, you know I'm careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u82	Don't give yourself to him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u83	I don't wish, you heard me. I dedicate myself to my party. I will not take up all the opinions of the Council of State, Mrs Cassart. One thing is clear. Mr Wollants, the judgment is not based on European directives. Therefore, everything that the Council of State and AFCN say in relation to the European directives, the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions is still valid. This means that there is a need for an environmental impact survey and public consultation. The Council of State has said this four times. Maybe he has to say it a fifth time? I don't know, but four times is already a lot! The AFCN said it only once, certainly...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u84	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u85	Mrs Cassart, we can see on the spot! We can make a trip with the Economy Commission. We'll see if there's smoke coming out of Doel 1 and Doel 2. I guarantee you that there has been no smoke coming out of Doel 1 since February 15, 2015. This means that the situation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is not the same. This means that one reactor is closed, while the other is open. This means that there is a different perception and opinion of the Council of State. In committee, we tried to say that Doel 1 was separated from Doel 2 and Tihange 1. Apparently, the information didn't percolate. Oh, my God. I can keep trying to develop my arguments, but I'm gonna get tired. So let us review the opinions of the Council of State which mention exactly the same thing or let us see the smoke, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economy, whether or not it comes out of Doel 1 and Doel 2! The concept note of the AFCN which also specifies this. Today, no one dared to guarantee in committee that Doel 1 and even Doel 2 would be available next winter. Even the transmission system operator Elia does not rely on Doel 1 in its strategic reserve calculation to avoid security of supply problems. He told us and repeated it in committee. Yet for weeks, we have heard the government and the parties of the majority tell us that nuclear power is the solution. The government and the parties of the majority tell us that it is nuclear or chaos next winter. Mr. Wollants said it a little. For my part, I think that with this government, it will be nuclear and chaos. Colleagues, this government has blinded itself to thinking that two small nuclear reactors would be the solution to our supply problems for next winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u86	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u87	Just as Mrs Cassart and the MR voted in 2013, my group is defending a gradual exit from nuclear power. It is a choice of society that is based on at least two fundamental reasons: Fukushima and nuclear waste. The 2011 Fukushima accident demonstrated to the world that a large-scale nuclear accident was possible in one of the most developed countries in the world. Although the probability of a large-scale accident is low, there is no zero risk. My group has made the choice of zero risk in the nuclear field. The cracks discovered in the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors remind us once again that nuclear risk is not an abstract matter. And I don't think it is for our fellow citizens. These two reactors have been closed for more than a year because no one is in a position today to say that they meet all safety standards. As far as nuclear waste is concerned, we must dare to tell the people that this waste produced today by our nuclear power plants will remain harmful to the environment for tens of thousands of years. It is a heavy environmental debt that we leave for future generations. Colleagues, the goal of the PS is to get out of nuclear power in 2025. We cannot therefore support this project, because it is contrary to this objective. The consequences of this law mean that our country will have to close seven nuclear reactors almost simultaneously, between the end of 2022 and 2025, instead of organizing a phase-out of nuclear power for ten years, as the previous government had planned. This bill locks our country in a brutal and totally unrealistic exit schedule. For 2025 alone, no fewer than five reactors should be closed at the same time. Behind this text is a great hypocrisy. The government claims to want the release of nuclear power by 2025, but changes the timetable to make it almost impossible. Madam Minister, I regret to repeat the first thing you said to us, namely, that you didn't care about the post-2019 period. I believe, of course, that this government is engaging our society in nuclear energy on a sustainable basis. Voting this bill by declaring that we will leave nuclear power in 2025 is a deceit to the Belgian population. In this government's policy, we see no action to make this exit from nuclear power effective. However, as we have shown in committee with our colleagues, another energy policy is possible. Action must be taken now to develop new solutions, particularly on the network by accelerating interconnections with the Netherlands. During the hearings, the representative of Elias told us that there would be significant reservations in the coming years. It would, moreover, be much cheaper for consumers to take advantage of the electricity surplus in the Netherlands than to invest 700 million in two small nuclear power plants – which total 700 MW – which are certainly ageing. Still in the short term, we are asking the government to put in place a real demand management policy. This must be done within a broader framework than the strategic reserve. There is also a very important potential in public or tertiary buildings which, through aggregators, can participate in a policy of erasing demand during peak consumption. We are also waiting for determined political actions to prevent conventional thermal power plants from closing when they are essential for spending this winter. In your government agreement, you have announced a capacity mechanism, but it must be noted that no tangible measures have been presented. To support the development of intermittent renewable energies, we need gas-fired flexible power plants. I mentioned earlier Mr Vande Lanotte today that nuclear power is preventing the development of renewable energies because there is no switch on our power plants to stop them when renewables are produced. The Government has also decided to abolish the call for tenders for the construction of new gas-fired power plants. There were, however, three investors ready to provide our country with productive capacity within three to five years, so in the medium term. Madam Minister, you have decided to delete this call for tenders on the grounds that the European Commission has vetoed it. However, the European Commission has never taken a formal decision to ask Belgium to abolish the call for tenders. The European Commission has, of course, made criticisms, which are normal in relation to a state aid mechanism. But you, the minister, have chosen to abolish this invitation to tender instead of entering into negotiations with the European Commission. When we see that the European Commission has accepted that the United Kingdom offers a guaranteed price of EUR 120 per megawatt for 35 years to EDF for the construction of a nuclear power plant, Mr Wollants, it is obvious that Belgium could negotiate with the European Commission in order to organise this invitation to tender. This government did not want to because it does not want alternatives today. The PS deplores the fact that all these alternatives are not available and that the only prospect of this government is nuclear. Colleagues, I would like to refer to the minister's method of work. I will not go back to all the debates in relation to oblivion, lies, amateurism or how to treat Parliament or even institutions such as the Council of State. On the other hand, I will go back to the negotiation strategy with Electrabel. When you negotiate with a giant like Electrabel, who has about a monopoly in Belgium, you have to be methodical not to shoot yourself in the foot right from the start. However, we have on our table a bill that extends Doel 1 and Doel 2 without even closing the negotiations with Electrabel. However, the negotiations concern a fee that Electrabel has to pay to the State as a counterpart of this extension. It is obviously to put Electrabel in a position of strength when we know that the negotiation will have important financial consequences for the State. We regret that this bill does not contain any financial beacons to regulate this convention. Parliament's role is to control the government and not to sign a blank cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u88	With regard to the royalty, it is inconceivable to go and negotiate one without knowing whether we will put the plants back on track. You have to see things one by one. First, decide if we're resuming Doel 1 and Doel 2. Then, depending on what the AFCN will say in terms of security – the Deputy Prime Minister had spoken about it during his speeches – we will go to Electrabel to negotiate a fee with them. We will not negotiate a fee without knowing if the power plants are going to be started. It seems to me that this is self-evident and the minister is well aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u89	Mr Friart, you are therefore telling me that the minister is not negotiating with Electrabel. Is there no negotiation with Electrabel today with regard to Doel 1 and Doel 2? But then these plants will certainly not operate this winter. Mr Friart, that's what you just said. You're in the gas, Mr. Friart. I'm not the one in the gas, Mr. Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u90	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u91	Oh, isn't that the subject of the discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u92	That is not the purpose of this bill. This will be the subject of a future bill. We will not talk about negotiations with Electrabel today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u93	Mr Friart, you have to accept at some point that this Parliament, whether it is the majority or the opposition, has a minimum control over the government. That's our role. It's written in the Constitution. And we also vote on the bills. You can still accept at some point that we are not fooled and that, I hope, negotiations are under way with Electrabel. The CEO of Electrabel told us in committee. The minister told us this because she said that she did not want to reveal the state of her negotiations with Electrabel so as not to make them go wrong. Mr Friart, we are not innocent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u94	This issue will be the subject of a future bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u95	I have to do like little monkeys: shut up, see nothing and close my ears?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u96	We will not put on the public square what is happening right now with Electrabel. This will be done soon after this has been decided. You know that very well. You've never negotiated, you've never discussed, but that's how things are going.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u97	I've never done anything in my life, excuse me. I've never done this in my life. But, Mr Friart, we are claiming transparency, we are claiming that there are beacons in a bill like Tihange 1, which we are claiming to know where the government brings us in relation to a reopening of Doel 1 and Doel 2, do you not find that legitimate in relation to a parliament? Do you not find this to be legitimate vis-à-vis our citizens? Do you think we should wait until everything is signed and then say, "Oh, that's too bad!" Mr.Friart, I do believe that there should have been some benchmarks in this bill, and you will not have me say anything else today in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u98	Mrs Lalieux, when I hear you talking about beacons, I still remind you that at the beginning of March we auditioned sixteen or fourteen people – I don't know, Mr Nollet – we never gave so much information – I will say that during my speech. You were present, I wasn't, when we negotiated the continuity of Tihange 1. Maybe go back to what happened in the works for the extension of Tihange 1. You can blame us for some things, but certainly not for the lack of transparency, when we see all the discussions in committee and the hearings that we have carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u99	Mrs Cassart, I think that in the report I tried to be totally objective and I thanked everyone for the depth of the debate. On the other hand, if you reread the work on Tihange 1, you will see that in the bill, an amendment was tabled by the government that placed all the markers. Don't say the opposite of the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u100	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u101	Mr. Chair, we're going to suspend the proceedings to bring the bill and the report on the bill on the extension of Tihange 1 to Ms. Cassart, so that she can read it with rest and confirm that the markings were provided for in the bill. There were two ministers of the former government who were there. Were the beacons planned as a result of an amendment? [[Oui]] Mr Wollants, you were in committee; I ask you the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u102	It is true that this was part of the draft law, but at the same time it is already announced in the draft law that there will be a bill setting out the guidelines. Last time it went as follows: Mr Wathelet went on to negotiate, he submitted a bill containing these beacons and then signed. Now we are getting a bill for the renewal with an express clause that can only take place if an agreement is reached by a certain date and the announcement of a bill with the beacons. Contrary to last time, we will indeed have two draft laws now, compared to one at the time, but they will be there, because that is, of course, specifically recommended in the opinion of the Council of State and also taken into account in the reply given by the government. Those beacons will be there. I understand that you are very keen to have them, and you will soon be able to examine them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u103	Mr Wollants, when we vote on a bill in favour of extending the nuclear power plant, because we need it for security of supply next winter and then we negotiate, because Mr Friart tells us that negotiations are not yet taking place, I think this is not an ad hoc method of negotiation. I also wonder, Mr Friart, why you did not accept the amendment which made it clear that, before signing the Convention, Article 3 had to state that Parliament had to validate the Convention before signing it. What would have been impeccable to negotiate is that the beacons appear in the bill that is before us today. Even though, Mr. Friart, I never had to negotiate with Electrabel. I don't have that chance or bad luck. Mr Nollet, you can forward the Tihange 1 report to Mrs Cassart. In this way, you will be able to change your intervention from now on. Madam Minister, I have tried to be succinct and it seems to me to have been objective in my capacity as rapporteur. I would like everyone to respect each other's words. The debates in committee were heated, but that is no reason not to respect parliamentarians. After more than 60 hours of parliamentary debate, it is clear that the extension of Doel 1 and 2 does not bring any solution for next winter. This bill will also lock our country into nuclear dependence and delay the necessary energy transition. The ideological policy of the "all-to-nuclear" brings more insecurity at all levels and will be costly for the citizen. As you will know, we will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u104	Mr President, like my colleague Mrs Lalieux, I also wanted to thank the services for the long hours they spent in committee and the speed with which they gave us the reports. It is essential to thank them today. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, Belgium chose to phase out nuclear energy. However, as early as 2009, and I insist, a series of studies and reports drew the alarm bell, stressing the risk of having our reactors shut down early. Indeed, the closure of the gas-fired power plants, combined with the intermittent nature of certain renewable energies, notably wind energy, all aggravated by the recent shutdown of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 nuclear reactors, reinforced reports stressing the possibility of a black-out caused by the closure of three nuclear reactors (Doel 1, Doel 2, Tihange 1) by 2015. I will mention here the 2009 report of the Gemix Group, a group of experts charged with studying the ideal energy mix for Belgium in the medium and long term, or that of the International Energy Agency in 2011, not to mention the study of the 2013 SPF Economy on supply prospects for 2030. These documents were in the same direction: Belgium faces a growing energy risk, accentuated by the hasty exit of nuclear power. The previous government, which then had, I would like to point out, the support of the PS, the sp.a and the cdH, therefore in 2013 took the decision to extend the life of the Tihange 1 reactor by ten years. We must all show humility without exception, because, as the Prime Minister rightly pointed out in plenary on 28 May, none of the previous governments anticipated and resolved this cruel problem, this dilemma between the 2003 law and our country's energy supply situation. When the current federal government took office, it instantly measured the seriousness of the situation and proceeded to that task. It intended to take urgent measures, but also to provide our country with a strategy, a short- and medium-term energy vision in order, on the one hand, to guarantee the sovereignty and energy independence of our country and, on the other hand, to guarantee our citizens and our companies affordable energy with a high degree of security and safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u105	Mrs Cassart, you'll be happy because I agree with you. Since the 2003 Act, it has indeed been observed that the exit of nuclear power has not been implemented by successive governments. Why? We probably won't agree on the reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u106	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u107	We let the market go, thinking that the market was going to fix everything: "Let's trust the market." And what did the deal do? He's done the way he always does. He's been looking for the most profitable way. This was not to favour gas-fired power plants, especially in the current context, but it was necessarily to favour nuclear power, because it is known that power plants have been amortized for a long time. As a liberal, you will not accept it, but the real problem is the liberalisation of the energy sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u108	Really not! You have your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u109	It is for this reason that we have never organised the exit of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u110	I listened to you. You have your position. We have ours. That is no problem. In this assembly, everyone has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u111	Go on with your vision, Mrs. Cassart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u112	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u113	I think what I'm saying. Don't worry, I'm not Mrs. Marghem. Caroline Cassart is here. She spoke and had a position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u114	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u115	Mr. Nollet, I assure you. When I proposed the solution two per group, I knew very well that we would reach the number and we already had an agreement to audition for two days. I have always told you that I will do transparency and some things so that the opposition also has the right information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u117	You said at one point that I was the most sympathetic parliamentarian of the majority. Such things will not be forgotten. We have made some very positive points in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u118	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u119	At that point, I wanted to show some fair play if you wanted to audition on transparency, which we did. We played well. Over time, you may not have always been grateful in committee. For my part, I was very transparent and granted hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u120	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u121	I think you misinterpreted it. Transparency has always been a part of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u122	Mrs Cassart, I appreciated the construction of your argument on the occasion of the answer you gave me. The latter was well built, well argued.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u123	I do not wish to discuss the matter with you for two hours because we will never agree. We don't think the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u124	Let me ask you a question anyway! Since 2003, what is the political family that has participated, without interruption, in successive governments?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u125	I said it right away. We show a certain humility. I can tell you again what I said a few moments ago: "We must all show humility without exception, for as the Prime Minister rightly recalled (...)." I don't blame anyone else. I repeat that all of us, without exception, must show humility. But I come back to the debates that took place in committee. Sometimes by ideology, sometimes by political calculation, an implacable observation was obscured during these debates. If we do not re-launch Doel 1, if we do not extend Doel 2, in the event of a harsh winter, we expose our hospitals, retirement homes, public services, citizens and businesses to a high risk of blackout.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u126	Should I recall that the Federal Office of the Plan estimated the hourly cost of a blackout at EUR 120 million. That is what we want to avoid. Indeed, the risk is real. That is the purpose of the bill before us today. Given the urgency and imperative need to vote on this bill, I would like to go back to the allegations that have made its legislative path in committee. The government has been accused of opting for the "nuclear whole", of not having a forward-looking vision, of not having studied alternatives, of playing with the security of the citizen, of not discussing a convention that otherwise does not exist, of showing opacity and lack of transparency. I really regret the positions adopted and the terms used. We have been working on this issue for over two months. The charges against us are serious. It is therefore high time to restore the truth. The truth, what is it? On 15 February 2015, pursuant to the 2003 law, the Doel 1 plant was arrested. From there comes the whole legal dispute which has taken us long hours in committee. We have a first opinion of the Council of State in February 2015, confirmed, more elaborately and more explicitly, by a second opinion of the Council of State in May 2015 and even a third, obtained last week at the request of the opposition, in which, while retaining its line on the Espoo and Aarhus conventions, the Council of State reviews its position on the issue of the lapse of operating permits, now joining the position defended by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u127	I have before me the opinions of the Council of State. Tell me where you see a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u128	I don't have the comparison in front of my eyes, but, if you read it correctly...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u129	In the first opinion of the Council of State, it states: "In individual authorizations for operation and industrial production, the provisions relating to the authorization for the production of electricity shall end on 15 February. Since changes to the date of deactivation of Doel 1 were not made before 15 February, the provisions on production permission have become obsolete." The last opinion says exactly the same thing on page 18 of 24: "It must therefore be considered that the production authorisation expired on February 15, 2015. To the extent that the operating authorisation also contains provisions on production permission from fission of nuclear fuel, these provisions were terminated on 15 February 2015." Tell me what's changed! Both opinions say exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u130	No. I will even repeat here the words of Secretary of State Melchior Wathelet in the explanatory memorandum to the possible judgment of Doel 1: "Only the provisions relating to the industrial production of electricity from the fission of nuclear fuels are terminated, while the other provisions remain fully applicable". CQFD! Demonstration completed. It was on this view that the government positioned itself and worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u131	That's interesting because we're constantly quoting Mr. Wathelet's excerpt from his work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u132	Do you mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u133	Not at all. Now you're the wrong target. We were already, at that time, in opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u134	And your position has never changed. I confess, Mr. Nollet, I don't think I'm gonna change you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u135	I just wanted to, to be correct, go to the end of what Mr. Wathelet was saying. It justified, in the summary of the 2013 Statement of Reasons, that the project is intended to prevent any difficulties of interpretation because it is obvious - you have not read that passage - that the nuclear operator's obligations with regard to nuclear reactors do not cease at the time when electricity generation stops. He, too, already made the difference between power generation and operation. That passage, you don't mention it. However, it is fundamental because it justifies the position of the previous government, which has evolved in the course of debate between the different readings within the federal government. Your party was represented, so I assume you have the document. There was a note to the government, to the Council of Ministers, dated 16 July 2013, which the Minister did not mention in the preparatory work. We went looking for her. This note, signed by Mr Wathelet, justifies the inclusion of changes between the readings of this text by the fact that there are obligations related to the maintenance of the operation. Let us not say today that at the time this was introduced to allow for an extension of the production of electricity when, precisely in the note to the government, the opposite is written. It is possible to reconstruct the story on the basis of this famous text. We can hand you the bill. You used to ask us for copies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u136	When you asked us for them, we gave them to you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u137	Still after a certain period of time unfortunately. The note to the Government clearly explains why these changes were made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u138	Thank you, Mr Nollet, for these clarifications, but I repeat, the government has chosen to maintain its line. We will continue. Simply because it does not share the legal point of view of the Council of State, even though it has evolved in its third opinion. Our position is consistent and we fully assume it. Evidence of this is the analysis of two specialized firms. I'm not gonna name names here. We are not here to advertise, but we have the analysis of two firms that go in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u139	Mrs Cassart, you know that it was following a note from a specialized firm, the Janson cabinet, not to mention it – it was Ecolo who forwarded the legal analysis to us since it did not exist according to the government's claims – who advocated retroactivity, that the government tested this retroactivity with the Council of State. Don't say...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u140	There have been several legal opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u141	Mrs Cassart, I never interrupt you. I ask for the floor; you keep interrupting me. You're tiring! I'm just asking you to accept the opposite of what you're saying. You say that there are two legal analyses that were impeccable and that did not challenge the government's plan. I say that following one of the two legal analyses, the government tested an amendment on retroactivity. So do not say that there was no problem in the legal analyses, since there was an amendment followed by the murderous opinion, which you read as I did, from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u142	Mr President, there are two legal opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u143	Several legal opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u144	There are two opinions that go your way. The first opinion concludes that an amendment is needed. This is the part that was hidden in the minister's handwritten note. Copy and paste it didn't take over that part. I have the second opinion in front of me. It is in the appendices that the services forwarded to us on page 343. What's he saying? That the jurist should not take a position on the opinion of the Council of State because that is not his role. He says, I quote: "It does not belong to Electrabel..." - it is the lawyer of Electrabel who gave this opinion-...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u145	It bothers you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u146	Not at all! I'm the one who's quoting him. You're hiding it, I'm quoting it. "It is not for Electrabel, but for the legislator alone to decide on this matter." Don't say that this second opinion helps you because it says it doesn't say! The second is not useful, while the first thinks that an amendment is necessary. Then you say: "Victoire, the opinions are positive!" Where did you read this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u147	Mr. Nollet, anyway...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u148	I'll answer you every time and I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u149	You've already done it in committee! Mr Nollet, what about the decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 1 June? Few observers referred to this judicial decision, which, independently, validated the government's position. You only know it too well! The endless debates that you imposed on us – and I am telling you without reproach, given the importance of the issue and given that democracy has its rights – actually had only one goal, namely the urgent need to relaunch Doel 1 and 2 in order to avoid a blackout and guarantee security of supply for the coming winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u150	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, you're talking about next winter. Perhaps you didn't hear me, but I mentioned earlier the minister and Elia who said that, for next winter, we could forget Doel 1. Have at least the decency to recognize it for this plant! With regard to Doel 2, we will discuss it a little later when I speak in the gallery. In any case, for Doel 1, Mass is said!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u151	We said in committee that the first step was to vote on this bill, but we never gave a guarantee for it. In any case, if we do not vote on this text, it is certain, Mr Nollet, that we will not prolong Doel 1. We will first vote on this bill, in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u152	That's interesting, because the government agreement doesn't say that. It states that you must have taken a legislative initiative so that the extension of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear units is effective until March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2016, respectively. But you have not put this device in place in time. The problem we are facing today – and that is why you are trying to get the urgency without actually having it – is that you should have taken this initiative before February 15. You're out of time! So don't say that was provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u153	The government's position now is to vote on this bill. Because it is clear, Mr.Nollet, that if this bill is not passed, it is certain that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will not be reopened. You also accused us of adopting the "all-nuclear" position. No, I don't. We have always assumed that the "nuclear whole" is not a credible option. The government is building on an energy mix that the minister is currently working on. This is also reflected in the government agreement. I would remind you that the Council of Ministers of 18 December 2014 decided on the following: in addition to the extension of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors until 2025, it calls on Elia to continue its efforts to develop the interconnection capacity while adopting the draft law which is also under discussion today, and on the creation of an energy transition fund in order to encourage research and development in innovative energy projects, including energy production and storage. The draft law also includes the transposition of the European Energy Efficiency Directive. The Minister continues to reflect on the energy mix she intends to build in consultation with the federated entities. I repeat, we know that the "nuclear package" is not a solution and we will come to committee to present this energy mix. We will come to committee with proposals, but we are not going to debate certain things now when we are not yet ready and we continue to work and analyse. But rest assured, we will come to present this energy mix in committee because that is the government's real wish. We also want a subtle balance between the different sources of energy that will ensure the sustainability of our energy supply, while respecting our ambitious commitments to combat greenhouse gas production and global warming. But as I just said, patience. Patience is not one of my great virtues, but here I ask you to show some patience and we will come to committee with these files. That said, without Doel 1 and Doel 2's electrical production is obviously not possible. This finding is implacable. It does not come from our imagination; as I have already mentioned, we rely on independent studies and reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u154	I have a little question for you. You just said it was impossible to do without Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u155	We're not sure. The first step is to vote on the bill. Our wish is to use Doel 1 and Doel 2...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u156	I understood it was your wish. Your point was to say that Doel 1 and Doel 2 had to be reopened. If the AFCN gives a red light, what do you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u157	We've got other leads, I'll come back. We have other additional leads that are still under analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u158	At that time, they will not be additional, they will be alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u159	The primary objective is to vote on this bill, so that we can reopen Doel 1 and Doel 2 if the possibility arises. We will return to the energy mix committee. It is not because we are voting on this bill today that we are not going to look at the additional leads. I'll talk about Mr. Woitrin's lead again. As I said, we have independent reports, the study by G-Mix, the group of experts charged with studying the ideal energy mix for Belgium in the medium and long term. A September 2009 report called "What an ideal energy mix for Belgium in the 2020 and 2030 horizons" explicitly concludes the need to extend the Doel 1 and Doel 2 and Tihange 1 reactors. I recall that when we extended Tihange 1, it was not so much a problem. However, there was not such a comprehensive report and there were no hearings. I wanted to stress that. In a 2011 report, the International Energy Agency also urges Belgium to extend nuclear power for energy security reasons. What about the alternatives mentioned by our now famous Mr. Woitrin? Elia was asked the question. What did she say? The Brabo Runway is not possible until winter 2015-2016. The Woitrin Trail is a very risky project that needs to be studied in detail. The Woitrin track is not swept with a back of the hand, it can be examined. But as the majority in committee has indicated, and as the minister has explained, the Woitrin Trail should not hinder the passage of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u160	You say that Mr Woitrin's slope will be examined. You remember that the Minister in committee said that the slope is not feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u161	I don't understand if you're talking too fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u162	You just said, "We're going to study the Woitrin track again." Do you still remember that, during the committee discussions, the minister said that it was not feasible, that there were several things needed...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u163	That's right. A very risky project that needs to be studied in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u164	No, that was after. But the minister began by saying that it was unfeasible, that we were talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u165	Elia's position at the hearings was such...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u166	I'll quote my notes. The minister said in committee that it required a 220-volt radio station, insulators and a new tower. Now you're saying we'd have to study that lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u167	We never left anything on the side. We have always said that we will look at all possible avenues in addition to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u168	No, that wasn't the case two weeks ago. The minister said it was unfeasible. And now we discover that it is a problem of will: 'I don't want to do it'.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u169	The image that had been used by the minister was as follows: "It is as if one wanted to connect a 220 volt radio station in 380, it would explode". That's what she said. And today, we hear that it would be feasible and that we need to study...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u170	Reread Elias' auditions in committee. Here, you're quoting the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u171	The minister said that it was necessary to replace the insulators and that the installation of a new tower would be necessary before authorization was given, which was not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u172	I explained that this is a very complicated, very risky project.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u173	You never mention the scenario that the minister described. She talked about 220-volt radio stations connected to 380...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u174	But you take these words back in a very small context. In our view, Mr. Dominique Woitrin's lead is risky and needs to be studied in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u175	Colleagues, we have discussed the slopes of Woitrin on a number of occasions. We got the proposal, we got his letter, we saw Elijah's reaction. A number of things still need to be investigated. In my view, it is absolutely necessary to do so, so that it can be used as an additional slope. Mr Nollet, that seems to me to be the case. I think there's even ample support to investigate all of that. Let's just do that. For me, this is separate from the discussion on Objectives 1 and 2, because it must be possible to use it as a setback. As I have just said, it is not absolutely certain that Objectives 1 and 2 will work in the coming winter. That's right. If it's said here that we'll investigate, we'll just do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u176	We will look at all avenues to ensure security of supply for Belgian citizens. You hear, Mr. Nollet: all the leads.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u177	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u178	We're not waiting. We first vote on this bill and, at the same time, we analyze all possible avenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u179	I think it might be useful to look at the tracks in a complementary way to move forward on several fronts. You yourself say that you have a doubt about the reactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear reactors. Today, we're wasting time...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u180	Not at all. We have additional leads that we are now analyzing. The minister will come to committee with all these proposals. Give us time to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u181	I offered to work in parallel.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u182	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u183	As for the alternative proposals which may consist of bringing superpower generators, the companies that rent these machines do not wait and they rent them elsewhere. We may find ourselves without this trail and then complain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u184	I believe that Mr Nollet has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u185	Mr President, I wanted to go back to Mr Wollants' speech. I admire the fact that we will analyze the Woitrin track like all the others. I agree, but I'm wondering. Why did we lose two months before analyzing it? I ask the minister the question. We lost two months when we communicated this from the beginning of the work. Then you have to pay attention to one dimension: the Woitrin track cannot be combined with the operation of Doel 1. I wanted to clarify it technically. It cannot be said that this is a complementary lead. This is an alternative track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u186	Additional!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u187	Alternative in the case of Doel 1. Finally, the third element – and this seems to me the most important: since there is this heavy uncertainty about Doel 1 and as the minister said in January and March that Doel 1 would not be open this year, I think it would have been better to do the opposite and first look at this track before doing the rest. Let me express this regret, make it clear that this is not a complementary but an alternative path. We've been saying that for a long time. If there is a problem later, then the two months lost will weigh heavily in the balance of responsibilities. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u188	Mr Nollet, on your three points, we have already discussed point one and point two in detail. On the third point, it is true that this cannot be achieved at the same time. The two slopes as equivalent proposals, however, are also wrong. In that sense, the certainty is that, at the time that Target 1 and 2 are running effectively, the flow of it will end up on the grid, almost 100 % and it is certain that there is additional capacity. However, there is no certainty that there will also be a flow of electricity. We must then return to the underlying power stations. This means that in that case we end up again in the story of the 2 700 megawatts that Elijah indicates. That's where the problem arises. That's why the two slopes aren't equal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u189	Mr Wollants, how can you still say today that nuclear power generation is a guaranteed production, with what we have experienced in recent months with Doel 3, Tihange 2, with Doel 4, with Tihange 1 which has also been closed for a few moments, with the situation on Doel 1 and Doel 2 and legal and economic uncertainty? How can we now consider this energy to be the safest energy? Nuclear energy is today the most intermittent energy in Belgium. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u190	When compared to the volume concerned, it is today the most intermittent. Conversely, in the Netherlands, and in the reports it is written, Elia said, there is already an existing overcapacity. In addition, there will be an additional 3,000 megawatts next year. So stop telling us it's uncertain.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u191	The Netherlands is also an importing Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u192	That's interesting, that's the Prime Minister's argument. I think we've settled that issue. The Netherlands is not a net importer. They are largely exporters. When we need it...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u193	They also import electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u194	Stop with these arguments! Technically, they're not on the road. We can do that again, but we would waste a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u195	Just so we're clear, I just said that at the moment that Target 1 and 2 are running, there's a pretty good chance that we can use that electricity on the grid. If they turn, we'll have that electricity. When it comes to the availability of those power stations, the average availability of our nuclear power stations, we count on you to know that we have 7 750 hours a year. Isn't that right? When we talk about availability, it's pretty high. It's a lot more than what the gas plants are running and it's already a lot more than it is, for example, off shore wind or on shore wind. If we are now told that these nuclear power stations of ours are almost always standing still, then the truth is being brutalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u196	We have exchanged our views. We're not going to make the exchanges last long. But I can do it...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u197	We know that! We know you, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u198	I proposed not to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u199	That's very good! From committee to committee, it did not bring much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u200	It is true that Mr Jambon was not able to attend all our work. From the point of view of electricity generation, nuclear is also a theory, just as import is a theory. In reality, we are no longer in a dream or ideal situation. Uncertainty is full and complete. The alternative exists here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u201	What we need to care about in our research is the 13,700 MW we need during rush hours in the winter between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. We need to rely on our capabilities. We must forget all that is renewable because one day in January, after 4 p.m., there will be no wind, there will be no wind turbines. Nor should we rely on imports because, on that day, neighbouring countries will need all their electricity. Electricity must be produced as much as possible at home. That's a good reason to get Doel 1 and Doel 2 back on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u202	Mr President, I fear that we will step back with Mr Friart's intervention, that we will go back twenty or thirty years, at a time when markets were not interconnected, when Belgium had to be self-sufficient. Nuclear power dates back to those years, okay, but we've evolved since then, Mr. Friart. There are even wind turbines running in the winter!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u203	It is true that wind turbines were a great success in the Walloon Region!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u204	That's right! With the help of Mr Jean-Luc Crocket, who has installed wind turbines in the territory of his commune, we can move forward. You are right to insist on this Walloon victory and the help of MR mayors who have installed these wind turbines. They operate in winter, including in Leuze-en-Hainaut. That's the advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u205	Not after 5:00!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u206	Yes, I do! Mr. Vande Lanotte, maybe in Ostend, there's no wind after 5:00 p.m., but there's some in our house! Isn't that right, Mr. Friart, there's wind in Wallonia even after 5:00? And even sometimes, there is enough clarity to operate some photovoltaic panels. What I'm telling you is serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u207	Here too, it was a success on your part! If you want, we can start talking about wind turbines and photovoltaics. Remember that I was a member of the Walloon Parliament when you were a minister. I think I can say that at the time, the record wasn't great.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u208	Mrs Cassart, I ask you to think of the translators. When you're two screaming, it's hard for them to translate. Let's calm down and it'll be better. Why do you think I'm making such a point? To try not to get away from the debate. Indeed, Mr Friart's speech is a hindrance to us. I therefore propose to continue our debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u209	Mr President, I would like to make a little clarification. When we see the petalière that Mr. Nollet created in Wallonia with his 50 passages to the Ministry of Energy, I think I can say that he is badly placed enough to come and give lessons here. In view of the price of energy in Wallonia after its passage, one is entitled to think that it still has a lot to learn before coming to give lessons to the House!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u210	Mr Friart, it must be acknowledged that some of your speeches in committee went a little counter-current. Indeed, all the other colleagues in your government have told us – the report confirms this – that a European energy policy needs to be developed. And for your part, as was the case in committee, you say here that you believe only in nuclear power and only in nuclear power produced in Belgium. It seems to me, Mr Friart, that in terms of energy, we cannot live on an island. Interconnections are needed. Elia told us that the Netherlands will have a surplus. The latter produce more than their domestic demand. It is a border country of Belgium. The cost of importing the energy produced in that country will be much lower. We had a discussion earlier on consumer prices and the safety net. What is the value of investing at least 700 million in aging plants? Mr Friart, at least try to be honest about this!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u211	I expected the Walloon argument to fall earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u212	It is not because you have always done this in committee that you must do it. Why don't you explain what was going on in the Walloon Parliament? You were there!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u213	It is paradoxical to see today in the interviews that we did not do enough under the previous government in Wallonia for renewables, whereas when the MR sat, and he is still, in the opposition in Wallonia, he said that we were doing too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u214	You didn't manage the file well, it's different! We never said you were doing too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u215	No, I own the articles and I can take them out one after the other! We've talked enough about it! Now you have to know! In the middle, there is what Mr.Crocke does in his communal territory, he installs wind turbines that operate beyond 5:00 p.m. when there is wind!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u216	I would like to remind Mrs Lalieux and Mr Nollet that today we are talking about 700 megawatts. We're talking Doel 1 and Doel 2. They are essential for security of supply, but in the coming weeks, in committee, we will be talking about an energy pact, an energy mix with other sources of electricity production. But one thing at a time! Today it is Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u217	Mr Nollet, we said that in the Walloon Region, this case had been mismanaged and not that you did too much. I will not tell you the history of the voltaic panels, of the wind cadastre, of many other materials. The primary need of the citizen is security of energy supply. To achieve this security of energy supply, it is clear that the minister will come to committee with additional measures. These are not alternative measures in any way, we will do more. We will not put this bill in jeopardy because it is indispensable to us. Security, for us, is an absolute lead. The Minister of the Interior has been extremely clear. We will comply with the decisions of AFCN, an independent, nuclear security institution. This institution has a staff, it has engineers, it is envied of us all over Europe. The position of the Minister of the Interior has been very clear on the subject. If the AFCN gives its green light on Doel 2's extension and Doel 1's revival, so much the better! If the AFCN conditions this green light, then we will be intractable about the work to be done. If the AFCN believes that the danger is too great, we will not take the risk of endangering the population. It flows from the source, it's obvious. The minister explained this in committee and I wanted it to be reflected in the record today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u218	If nuclear security is the government's priority and not haste over security of supply, why does this government change its shoulder rifle from SALTO and international experts' control before the extension? So you agree with us, you won't reopen the power plants until there's an expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u219	For Tihange 1, what happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u220	Mrs Cassart, you should read your files again, I told you earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u221	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u222	There was SALTO before the extension of Tihange 1. Benchmarks were included in the relevant law. I don't know how to say it anymore. I don't speak Dutch well enough to say it in that language. Today, the government is changing its shoulder rifle and showing haste for next winter. Mr. Bens' statements don't reassure us. Indeed, by minimizing the Fukushima accident to this extent, it caused a total breach of confidence and lost all credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u223	(...) of quality in this institution! It's a set, Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u224	I am talking about a breach of trust and a loss of credibility vis-à-vis its own institution. I regret that for all AFCN workers. After such statements, international expertise is essential, as was done for Tihange 1. Read the reports again!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u225	When it comes to Tihange 1, I'm the most neutral observer. I wasn't in the majority. You're saying that for Tihange 1, the SALTO didn't take place until the extension. That's not true. The pre-SALTO was done in August 2012 and the SALTO in January 2015, before the 40-year anniversary. It's not innocent. It's not something the environmentalists asked for. The fact that a SALTO must be carried out prior to the extension is an application by the International Atomic Energy Agency. It's not really the study department of Greenpeace or Ecolo-Groen. This is one of the examples where we see that this majority is playing with nuclear safety, that you are not complying with the directives...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u226	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u227	Let Mr. Calvo speak, Mrs. Cassart.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u228	For me, this is one of the examples where you do not follow the international guidelines, the requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency. I repeat, this is not our request. I can provide you with the Agency's requests. Normally, a pre-SALTO is performed two years before and a SALTO two years before the start of the LTO. It's still important. And you just said it wasn't the case with Tihange 1. That was the case with Tihange 1. This is a fairly strong demand from the IAEA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u229	I said that the SALTO was made in 2015. I didn't lie: it's the truth. Ms. Lalieux tells me that a pre-SALTO was done before. I just told you that a SALTO was made in 2015. I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u230	(...) as far as my security interventions are concerned. The MR, in particular, and the government, in general, are simply being asked not to deceive the facts. It's a fact! When it did exist, don't say it didn't happen! We know we don't agree on the substance. But at some point, Mrs Cassart, Mr Friart, when things have been done, we have the documents in committee and you have access to the report, I simply ask that we not truncate the truth again here in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u231	I simply said in the gallery that the SALTO was made in 2015!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u232	Mr Calvo, there is no point in doing so. I would like to ask for the floor, and this also applies to you, Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. After all, we must be able to follow the debate properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u233	Mr. Minister of the Interior, I believe that your position has always been very clear on the attitude that the AFCN will adopt and on nuclear safety. Yes, the AFCN is an independent institution, I repeat, which will decide in terms of nuclear security. Let's stop freaking out. We have a quality institution and we will take no risk! No, there is no ideal world in terms of nuclear safety. Certainly not! But we must constantly strive for this ideal. In doing so, the studies that the AFCN ideally advises to carry out before the recovery will be carried out as soon as possible. It is possible that this work will take place after Doel 1's revival and Doel 2's extension, but it is for AFCN, independent and impartial, to rule in this direction. It will be recalled briefly – you will not agree, Mrs. Lalieux – that the International Atomic Energy Agency's SALTO programme, for example, should it ideally take place before the extension (like any optional control) or the restart of reactors has no legal value. This is a peer review, a comparison with good nuclear safety practices. A visit by the International Atomic Energy Agency is planned for February 2016. To complete my remarks on this point, I will add that Tihange 1 – you will not agree – was visited by SALTO only in 2015, when it had been extended since 2013. I also wanted to address the subject of the convention. The minister already indicated in her explanatory statement that she would soon come back to Parliament to submit to us the final terms and amounts for a conclusion by the government of the agreement with Electrabel, as was the case for Tihange 1. In the meantime, it is easy enough for the opposition to talk about a convention that does not exist. "As long as there is no agreement on everything, there is no agreement on anything," the minister repeated often. This is therefore a real trial of intent. The Prime Minister himself referred to it in plenary. "The government wants to avoid a significant financial risk on the shoulders of the state." But at the same time, as in any other negotiation, each party comes to the other with its demands and claims. It may seem logical for a private operator, before making investments, to seek stability and legal certainty. The agreement will therefore be the result of a subtle balance. To make prognosiss, to ask for exclusives while the negotiations are continuing, has, at this stage, little interest. The minister repeated this: she will return with this dossier to Parliament. I will conclude by going back to the incidents that led to the work in committee during the consideration of the bill that we are debating today. These debates, even if the blows to the minister did not always honour their author, even if the arguments were not always of a high level,... Some Members repeated the same questions, the same debate to make a little lasting. This is the game of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u234	I think I've shook my colleagues Nollet and Calvo a little bit, and I apologize for that. Imagine that you had a president of the majority who had the majority vote at the end of the general discussion. Imagine the position that would have been yours in this case. I think that, through reasonable management of the debate, I have allowed colleagues to speak, but I have deprived Messrs. Nollet and Calvo have an exceptional position of being cut off in a general discussion. Indeed, I was asked to vote for the end of the general discussion. I refused to do so, as a good democrat, but unfortunately for their media position, because it shook them a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u235	All the members of the committee and finally all the Members were finally able to form an opinion in full transparency. That is the positive side of this debate, Mr Nollet. We have, ladies and gentlemen, organized two whole days of hearings for this bill, during which the opposition and the majority were able to listen, exchange questions and ask questions to more than fifteen speakers chosen by each other. That had not been the case for Tihange 1. We interviewed the Minister of the Interior, responsible for nuclear safety, for several hours during the second reading of the draft. That had not been the case for Tihange 1. Mrs Milquet had not come to committee to discuss this matter. How many alternatives to the renewal of Tihange 1 were studied through written reports? None. We have nearly 300 pages attached to the report of the two readings. How many appendices to the report of the 2013 Tihange 1 Act? None. It is therefore wrong to say that the majority would have lacked transparency in this matter. We spent about 50 hours in committee, including the two hearing days mentioned above. The conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to this litany of examples, what I am saying, of facts is that this majority has given the opposition the opportunity for a major debate on nuclear power and the energy future of our country. We have demonstrated our commitment to transparency. More than ever, I would like us to keep these figures from the Federal Office of the Plan about the cost of one hour of blackout. It has had to be repeated dozens of times, but it is still high time for the public to know that we are finding solutions. For this majority, for this government, it is a risk that we do not want to run and that we refuse to make our fellow citizens run. The vote on this bill is just the beginning. We still have a lot of work to do. And this government will be responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u236	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the light must remain on. That is why we are debating today. As a good family father, we must take responsibility today and make it possible for our energy supplies to be secure for the coming winter. Our security of supply is at stake, this winter, the coming winters and according to Elijah even this summer. So we now have to cut through our efforts to ensure our security of supply and to ensure that the light remains on in the short term. Today there is a draft law for extending the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2. That's a first step, but not the last. With the adoption of the draft law before us, we make it legally possible to extend the life of both reactors. After that, however, an agreement is needed with the operator on the financial aspects and last but not least the green light of the FANC, before the plants can restart. Ladies and gentlemen, our security of supply is at stake. Unfortunately, that's not the first time. I'd like to return in time. This is not the first time we have had this debate. Honestly, I have a bit of a déjà vu feeling. In 2013, a similar bill was adopted in Parliament, namely the 10-year extension of Tihange 1. Together with the then majority parties, CD&V was also convinced that by taking measures under the Wathelet plan, Objectives 1 and 2 could be closed. We shall now return to that decision. We must dare to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened since then, which means that we still have to decide to keep Objectives 1 and 2 open for longer. During the lifetime extension of Tihange 1, the problematic situation of the security of supply of our energy was already clear. Well, the situation has not improved since then, quite the contrary. For example, several gas plants announced that they would close this year. The closure of more than 1 300 megawatts of capacity was not planned in 2013. Last year two plants were already placed out of the market and included in the strategic reserve. This is on top of the classic power stations that were taken out of operation in 2013. We lack new investments that can also contribute to our security of supply. The tender for the new gas plant, provided for in the Wathelet plan, is not feasible under pressure from Europe. In addition to the closure of the various gas plants, there was also the unavailability of the tearing plants Objective 3 and Tihange 2. This, of course, was not foreseen in 2013. We still do not know whether these plants will be restarted and, if so, when this will be effective. Can we not wait until we have clarity on Objective 3 and Tihange 2? Also CD&V would have preferred to have had clarity about these crack plants now, or even yesterday, but it is not. Delaying the decision for infinitely long would be irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to criticise energy policy, but let us also be honest. It is very difficult to formulate a sound policy as long as there is uncertainty about no less than 2000 megawatts. The date on which we are clear about Objective 3 and Tihange 2 is always moving forward. According to the FANC, the analysis process may take several months. The uncertainty remains, but here too nuclear safety is at the forefront, let that be clear. For the sake of safety, it must not be decided to restart. For the sake of economic rights, we must not simply decide on a definitive halt. The fate of Objective 3 and Tihange 2 requires a very precise assessment of a group of experts. We therefore leave this entirely in the hands of the FANC. In addition to the gas plants and our nuclear power, we obviously also have renewable energy that can contribute to our supply. We can only welcome the fact that there has been an increase in renewable energy in recent years. For the time being, however, it does not substantially contribute to our security of supply in winter. We can also import electricity, but there too we are colliding with technical limits. In addition, we must bear in mind that in France and the Netherlands, too, several plants are closing down, which means that, in the event of a real cold wave, competition between Belgium and France is in danger for the reserves currently available in the Netherlands. Colleagues, as provided for in the coalition agreement, the extension of life expectancy is not a blind, single measure, but a measure linked to different slopes that have been taken into account and, in the context of security of supply, it was found that it would not be a sensible decision to close Objectives 1 and 2. It was necessary to take account of the fact that the nuclear reactors Objective 3 and Tihange 2 might be stationary. Possible additional planned interconnection capacity had to be taken into account. The possibility of integrating foreign capacity into the Belgian network and, of course, the evolution of Belgian production capacity had to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u237	Mrs Dierick, I didn't interfere with the crack reactors. I insist that you have made an incredible turn in relation to previous positions in the committee, but I am not going to go back on that now. What I find strange in your statement is that you seem very satisfied with the way things are now being rolled out. You say that the coalition agreement contains many alternatives, that they are being addressed and that this is part of it. Well, that contrasts with your critical attitude, not only of you, for example, in the television studios on Sunday and in your recently published press release. If you were talking about improvisation and mistakes made by the minister, what were you talking about? You seem to be very satisfied with what is happening at the moment, with how things are being handled, but that is in stark contrast to your previous statements. Then what's it about?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u238	Mr Calvo, I have indeed been critical and have said several times, both in a television debate and in committee, that we believe that the debate has not gone the most serene way and that we regret it. We also felt that transparency could have been quicker. The Minister has not always chosen the easiest route. For us, however, it is the result that counts. As far as this draft law is concerned, all the opinions were made available to the members of the committee. All the elements are now on the table and we can debate the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u239	(...) mistakes have been made in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u240	(...) not in a serene way, but that it could have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u241	Mrs. Marghem, did you hear Mrs. Dierick? To date, you have maintained to this House that nothing has actually gone wrong in this dossier, that everything has gone smoothly, that things should not have gone differently, as Mrs Dierick says.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u242	Of course, it doesn't work that way. You are welcome to address the Minister, but you really need to do so through the President. You may ask a question to the Minister, but no one here needs to feel compelled to speak at any time. You have the floor now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u243	Of course, there is no question of coercion in this House. Mrs Marghem, I find it remarkable that Members of the majority here say that things should have been different in this case. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u244	I said: 'Mrs Dierick said that mistakes were made.' You corrected me: you said that things should have gone differently in the file, that some things should have gotten on the table faster. I'll confront the Minister with that statement. Why do I do that? I still find it strange that, after all we have been through, the Minister for Energy has still not said at any time that it could have been dealt with in a different way. She didn't do that in any way. Mrs Dierick, I agree with what you said there. I also think it is brave that you should say that as a majority member. I can only observe that the Minister for Energy is also annoying about future dossiers which are not of the opinion at all. She thinks it went perfectly, that things shouldn't have run differently than they walked. That is not an easy conclusion, not even for you as a member of the majority. Based on what do you think she'll do better next time? What elements do you have at the moment in order to know that Mrs Marghem will do better next time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u245	I have indeed said that this has not happened in the most serene way, but I have also made it quite clear that the result ultimately counts. We have been given all the advice as committee members. We have even received an opinion on a government amendment that has not been tabled and is therefore actually non-existent. That has never happened before in my political career. You've been given all the documents you asked for. Now let's talk about the content. It's the result that counts. All the elements are there. We're not playing procedural games anymore, we'll talk about the contents of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u246	With all due respect but information to Parliament is a matter of substance for me. That is not a matter of procedure, it is a matter of substance for me. I agree with you that it could have gone another way. I can only say that the Minister still does not share that conviction. That worries me. This afternoon's performance strengthens me in the belief that there is a problem and that the problem will not be limited to Objectives 1 and 2. It has in no way used the space that has been there for hours to admit to Parliament and to the general public that certain things should have been dealt with in a different way. I still haven't seen that. I think that you can even more explicitly regret that, because I do not think that we will be moving forward otherwise. Mrs. Marghem still hasn't understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u247	Mr Calvo, I have said several times that all the elements are now on the table and that I really want to continue with the content of the dossier. I don't always want to look back at the past. Let us look above all at the future, because there is still a great deal of work to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, if I go over all the conditions in the coalition agreement, I can only conclude that all these conditions have been taken into account. We in the committee have heard detailed explanations of Elijah's projects to strengthen interconnection. For example, we will be able to import more from the Netherlands, England and Germany in the coming years. With CD&V we were the first to look at the integration of the Dutch power station in Maasbracht in the Belgian network, but this proved not feasible in practice for the coming winters. As the coalition agreement dictates and in view of everything that is on the table, it is not a sensible decision to close Objective 1 and Objective 2. We cannot accept a possible scenario in which both Objective 1, Objective 2 and Objective 3 and Tihange 2 would not be available in the coming winter. That is why, as a good housekeeper, we must make it legally possible to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for a longer period of time, which can provide additional energy in the coming winters, provided that, of course, they fulfil the strict conditions for safe operation. In addition to additional employment, the extension will also provide additional income. Admittedly, the level of this is still uncertain for the time being, but it is certain that if both plants are closed, the nuclear interest rate will be zero. With the annual fee, the Energy Transition Fund is frozen and so the future is prepared. The question we must dare to ask is whether there are alternatives in the short term. A possible alternative that has already been mentioned several times in the discussions would be to introduce 1 000 megawatts from the Netherlands, the so-called 'Piste-Woitrin', using an emergency feed from Objective 1 as interconnection by the next winter. For us, any sensible alternative can and must be examined. On the basis of the information we have at our disposal today, which has even been put on paper twice, I can only conclude that this alternative is not feasible for the coming winter and above all that it presents a potential risk to nuclear safety. Without me going into technical detail, that proposal seems to be a risky concept at the moment. I agree, of course, to further examine this, which commitment has already been made in committee. But even when it comes to an alternative emergency solution, we must not afford nuclear safety risks. The coalition agreement still contains measures that need to be further developed, such as the investigation of a capacity mechanism. For us, any additional measures that contribute to our security of supply may be examined as long as they are carried out safely and substantially contribute to our security of supply at an acceptable cost. Mr President, I will conclude. We are all facing a huge challenge here. None of us want to see our country deal with a blackout. That would be an embarrassment for our country, for our economy and for us, politicians. We must take action in the short term. CD&V does not want to bury its head in the sand and hide behind procedural debates. The draft law before us is not our favourite approach. However, as a good housekeeper, we want to take our responsibility and take all the measures that can contribute to our security of supply in the short term. We are thus consistently implementing the coalition agreement. With this draft law, we are taking a first step towards a legal framework. An agreement with the operator and the green light of the FANC is then needed before the plants can restart. Strict conditions for nuclear safety remain the first priority, including in the case of emergency solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u248	Mrs. Dierick, you're a good description of the timing. First there is the basic choice. After that, the translation will follow through the convention. Only after the translation of the convention and the legal green light for the convention will the lifetime extension be final. I shall return to the beginning of your speech, in which you point out that the future of Objectives 3 and Tihange 2 and 2 000 megawatts is important. I would like to ask you a very specific question. If between now and the legal translation of the convention there is news about Objective 3 and Tihange 2 and these two plants restart, will you approve the legal anchoring of the convention? At that moment the picture looks completely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u249	Mr Calvo, I don't have a glass ball. So it is difficult for me to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u250	Mrs Dierick, you do not have a glass ball, but you do have a conviction. My question is: what is your conviction in this matter? You have just outlined yourself, I am sorry to interrupt you as to how these two things are connected. You pointed out that 2 000 megawatts are not insignificant for the supply of energy and for the sake of clarity. If that clarity comes and that would mean restarting those power stations, you can decide perfectly between now and that moment not to do it and therefore not to give the Convention a green light. That was also your position in committee at the time. Do you maintain that view? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u251	Mr Calvo, I have always said that it was very important that we were quick to clarify Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I'd much rather have that clarity. Perhaps we should not have voted on this bill, but there is no clarity, and we cannot extend the decision we are taking here any longer, otherwise we will certainly not succeed. The fact that the FANC would make a decision before the convention is concluded would be odd, as the results are expected at the earliest in November. I suppose there should be a little more clarity about the convention after all. If I have read the bill correctly, then the convention must be signed by the end of November. So it seems illogical to me that both would intersect. If Objective 3 and Tihange 2 were to be opened, that would of course be good for our security of supply. I believe, however, that there is little chance that both agreements will cross.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u252	You did not answer the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u253	(...) It is a hypothetical question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u254	Is it a hypothetical question? I shall look at what is hypothetically correct, but you agree with me, you yourself said that these two things are connected? You have reinforced that point in your last statement. So my question is whether you still have the same conviction as at the time in committee that there can be no question of extending both Objective 1 and Objective 2 and of reopening Objective 3 and Tihange 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u255	No, I said earlier that I would have liked to have been clear before we adopted this bill, but there is no clarity at this time. However, we cannot postpone this decision on Objective 1 and Objective 2 indefinitely until we have certainty, because then Objective 1 and Objective 2 will certainly not open this winter. Then it'll be far too late. The longer this procedure and this whole discussion drag, the less certainty there will be that Objective 1 and Objective 2 will be open this winter. Since we still do not have any clarity about Objective 3 and Tihange 2, we must take responsibility and now take decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u256	(...) in the position in which you now say that you want to give at least a green light in principle to conclude the negotiations and then take the next steps, but what is wrong with the idea in line with your previous positions? You can give the green light in principle, but Mr Wollants also took the view that this is not final and still needs to be legally anchored. Before that second step has been taken, nothing has happened for Objective 1 and Objective 2. Why can't you just say that these two things are linked together and that if there's any prior clarity, Target 1 and Objective 2 won't open and you won't approve the legal translation of that convention? That's the position you've defended before, isn't it? Why wouldn't you do that today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u257	Because it will not be possible to negotiate further with the operator on Objective 1 and Objective 2. Surely we cannot ask for 700 million to be invested, but everything will lapse if the two crack reactors are opened and all preparations have to stop? My vision is very clear and I have explained it several times. We disagree on this and we can discuss it for a long time, but the issue is that we have to decide now. We will approve this bill because we cannot postpone it indefinitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u258	It is either one or the other: either this is the final decision or steps still have to be taken. It has just been said that two very important steps need to be taken: the FANC and the legal translation of the covenant. There's nothing definitive yet, that's what it was back there. You still have plenty of room, and I ask you about that, to see between now and the legal translation of the covenant what happens with Objective 3 and Tihange 2. You have that space completely. My question then is why you would not use that space, if you were so firm about it before? Moreover, no euro will be invested, no renewal investment will be made until the legal translation of the convention has been given the green light. People won't do that. It would be a disgrace to start investing before Parliament gives the green light. There will be no change at the time of your vote. My question is then: if you approve this and at that time it has already been decided to extend Objective 3 and Tihange 2, will you accept it or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u259	After looking up the term "hypothetically', Mr Calvo will be convinced that this is a hypothetical question. You are aware of the attitude we are taking today. If Objective 3 and Tihange 2 were to be given the green light of the FANC and we could continue to do so, then we will look at that at the moment, given all the circumstances of the energy market at that time. We will look not only at Objective 1 and Objective 2, but also at all other options. It is now too early to take final decisions on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u260	Mr President, in the meantime I have looked up the word "hypothetically': based on an idea which still has to be proved to be correct. I've done my search. Mr Verherstraeten, what does your speech mean? If Target 3 and Tihange 2 open again, can it be for you that the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 is not extended?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u261	With your search work, you yourself have given the definition of your hypothetical question. Once again, and for the last time, I repeat that my answer does not mean that. We will keep the options open and look at the situation when it is required, not before and therefore not now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u262	It is important that Mr Verherstraeten, the leader of one of the majority parties, says that the options are kept open. For me, this means that it is possible that when Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are reopened, they will not go any further. That means keeping all options open. If you say that option does not exist, you do not keep all options open. I note that this is important for the follow-up to the work that all options remain open. I hope Paris is listening. All options are open to the CD&V, so also the option "C" unless you contradict me that if Target 3 and Tihange 2 are reopened, the final step will not be taken to extend the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 by ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u263	I'll finish up. I almost got to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the draft law on the possible extension of the life span of Objectives 1 and 2, of course. It is important for us to do so in order to keep the light on in the short term. We shall certainly do so. However, for the long term, Madam Minister, we do need a strong energy policy. We expect a sustained long-term energy vision from you. An energy pact is crucial for this. This must be a pact between governments, producers, suppliers, network operators, families, civil society and companies. This must be the starting point for a new energy policy. Everyone must support this consensus, a consensus that includes choices for our production, networks and energy needs. Madam Secretary, CD&V will be your ally in taking measures for our security of supply. Know, however, that we also believe that there is no more time to waste and that we expect you to carry out all the other measures of the coalition agreement accurately.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u264	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an important step by the government to guarantee security of supply, both in the short and in the long term. This draft law is also inextricably linked to the draft law that we discussed earlier. The importance of security of supply must not be underestimated and must ensure the necessary stability in our energy landscape. There is a need for security for both families and businesses. With a view to the future, the government is clear: the energy mix must remain affordable and sustainable. The transition to more varied facilities requires transition measures. It is precisely in this context, however, that we must show the necessary pragmatism, that the current measures must be seen. This measure gives us a few years to implement the much-needed reforms in our energy policy. The future of our energy supplies must also be integrated into a European Energy Union. This energy framework needs to become even more uniform, integrated and more European. In a world that is becoming less stable, Europe must be able to meet its own energy needs, especially given, for example, Russia's geopolitical attitude, which also has an impact on our energy policy. Good cross-border interconnection and sufficient import capacity are important and essential elements of this European Energy Union. It has been discussed on several occasions, but interconnection has been discussed at various times during the discussion on Objective 1 and Objective 2. It was more specific about the hypothesis surrounding the Brabo project. We must be realistic in this respect with a view to security of supply in the coming winter. Brabo 1 is scheduled for mid-2016. Elia was very clear in this respect, and I quote: "A solution put forward, namely the use of an emergency line as an alternative to Elia's 2016 technical solution for the arrival of the converted line at the target power station, is a risky project that needs to be studied in detail. In any case, this solution ignores the fact that an essential pre-condition has not been fulfilled today. A new transformer must be placed in Doel which, according to the information available to Elijah, is required for nuclear safety as long as nuclear fuels are present in the docks of the plant. Nor is it possible to recruit the transformer from 380 to 150 kilovolt before the coming winter. Elia was therefore very clear: interconnection is possible, but will certainly not be possible before this winter. Another very important aspect in this matter is the safety of power stations. I agree with the position taken by Ministers Jambon and Marghem in the committee, namely that the safety of power stations is an absolute priority. It will ultimately be the FANC that lays down the necessary conditions for this. The many hearings we have devoted to the draft law, 16, with speakers who were free to choose by both majority and opposition, have also shown that security is essential. An important presentation on this subject came from the SCK, the leading knowledge centre on nuclear safety, which has shown that the term lifetime must be interpreted in an economic context and not in a technical context, which is an important concern in terms of safety. The SCK has given us numerous examples of nuclear power plants that have remained open for more than 40 years. The current draft law cannot be separated from the draft law that we have just discussed. For the government and our group, these two constitute one whole. Where the Objective 1 and 2 regime is aimed at security of supply in the coming winter and in the coming years, the other draft shows an objective that will continue to be pursued in the future, aiming at a more solid energy mix, sufficient investment and research. We will have to continue to think about new solutions such as renewable energy, but also storage, batteries or other possibilities, such as the atoll in the sea. I am also counting on Minister Marghem to hold maximum consultations with the regional energy ministers. Our group will support that bill, but is aware that there are still several steps to be taken. In particular, we look forward to the negotiations that will begin with the owner of Objectives 1 and 2 and the nuclear interest that will result from them. In short, by keeping Objective 1 and Objective 2 open, we are pursuing the same objective as we did two years ago with the opening of Tihange 1, which was decided by the previous government: short-term security of supply is guaranteed and we buy time and free up resources to shape the long-awaited shift in energy policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u265	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I will try to be brief. I would like to begin by expressing my disappointment at the handling of the draft law. There have been many, sixty hours of talk, but we have sometimes had very little time to discuss the essence of the matter because of the way in which we treat it. There has been a great deal of discussion about all kinds of incidents. We can say, however, that this draft law has not always been discussed calmly, as Mr Dierick has already said; let us say that it has been reasonably misapplied. And that's not the opposition's fault. Mr Jambon, it is clearly not your responsibility either. You have answered in a correct manner, in all openness. I would also like to thank you for that. I do not agree with your decision to keep Mr Bens in charge of the FANC, but that is something else, that is what everyone thought. I fear that you have kept a lame duck at the head of such an important institution. Humanly, I even understand that you wanted to do that, but I don't think it's the right decision. I don't think the director of the FANC is gonna be able to do that right anymore. We disagree on this, but in a correct way. Furthermore, we have seen many sham manoeuvres, half truths, whole twists, today's cinema was not very commendable either. It's become more of a soap opera than a big debate. I find that disappointing. It was also remarkable that the majority remained silent on many occasions. The majority members have, of course, expressed their strong support for the Minister at certain times. My experience is that we have to ask ourselves who is supporting you and who is not. The silence of the majority was sometimes embarrassing and I can understand that, out of honest shame, she has occasionally restrained herself. Then I come to the real content, which, contrary to what is said, is not security of supply. That may be in the title, but it's not. On the contrary, I firmly believe that the draft law has made security of supply more uncertain. By wanting to push it through now, without, for example, environmental impact reports, it raises many questions, creates uncertainty and, at the same time, pushes any possibility of investing very much into the background, especially with other investors. The surrealist efforts of the minister in the newspaper regarding Turkish steam boats or Kenyan emergency generators make that painfully clear. This law does not bring us any closer to security of supply and I do not have the impression that it is even necessary. I'll explain what I mean by that. If one says, like Mrs Dierick, that it is absolutely necessary to talk about it before the winter 2015-2016, what is it about? That's important. If it is for the following winter, we can afford to start an environmental impact report first and to remove uncertainty. If it is for the winter 2016-2017, it is said here that there is a procedure for an environmental impact report and that it can then be decided for that winter. However, it is about the winter 2015-2016, because then we need it. What are we talking about? Not about Objective 1 and 2. For the winter 2015-2016 Elia provides half, being 400 megawatts, in all scenarios anyway. So it's about whether we can find that 400 megawatt somewhere. I think we can do that. I am not talking about the Watrin solution, but let us look at what other countries are doing in that situation. Firstly, the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has experienced the same thing, with nuclear power stations falling out and the fear of blacking out. The first action line proposed there was to use all emergency generators as soon as there was a shortage. We must not allow it to come from Kenya. Do we have 400 megawatts capacity of emergency generators? Yes, and even significantly more. Big companies, not to mention Colruyt, have even written to us saying that it would be a good measure if all the grocery stores, all the people and all the agencies that work with freezers and have emergency generators, were to use them effectively. After all, in terms of investment, that is zero, because these installations are there and they are used for exceptional circumstances. We will have to compensate for the fuel they would not otherwise use, but that is not a major cost, and you know it. In any case, it would ensure that we do not over-dimension our production equipment and only use emergency procedures. However, it is necessary to check whether the ground line is connected, but I assume that it is possible to check it in three months and to build a ground line if necessary. The emergency generators can easily capture the 400 megawatts they are talking about for this winter. And why isn't that happening? For practical reasons; because it means that Elia, Infrax and Eandis have to talk about it and organize it. That's not a reason to stop us, is it? There is therefore a solution outside the one already mentioned. Secondly, what is Germany doing in such a situation? At that time, Germany makes sure that fewer demands are made:demand management. The plan that Elia put us on, it's about 100 to maybe 300 megawatts. That's nothing, dear friends! Solvay's people have come to us and begged us to take more active action by the government. How does Solvay do that in Germany? It is a source of income for them when they are able to move their production around in time and get a small fee for it at the time when there is a peak. They win twice: firstly, because the electricity they receive later is paid less expensively, and, secondly, because they receive compensation. The CEO of Solvay has come to ask us to use this in our country. Has that been the case for the past six or eight months? No. They've been working on Objective 1 all along. Did they call in emergency generators? No. In short, one has missed opportunities to easily compensate 400 megawatts via emergency generators and via demand management. It was all to be done through the extension of Objectives 1 and 2, which is, by the way, uncertain. One has opted for an uncertain slope instead of a certain slope. It is said that Objective 1 and Objective 2 are the most secure slope. No, that's a less certain slope than extensive recourse to emergency generators and extensive stimulation of demand management. People have missed opportunities! That is why I say that this law does not bring us any closer to security of supply. By placing the emphasis on Objectives 1 and 2, opportunities have been missed elsewhere that offer more certainty. Again, Elia does not consider the capacity of Objective 1 for the next winter. If we want to extend Objectives 1 and 2, because we like it or because we think it is better in principle, à la bonheur, then we still have no reason to say now that this must be done for this winter. Even so, there is no reason not to wait until we have certainty about Tihange 2 and Objective 3. You know that Mr Bens said, among other things, that there is a real chance that both will not start again until November. You must have read that in Le Soir, I hope. That was the most remarkable article about the envelopes. Mr Bens said there: 'C'C'est réaliste qu'on démarre au mois de novembre. That is literally what it says, but one pretends not to know. We don't turn on emergency generators, there's no demand management, we don't try to get through winter in other ways, it has to be before winter. That raises questions. I haven't even mentioned the Woitrin option. Moreover, I can say that there is another possibility, namely the whole system of subsidising gas capacity. A lot of questions can be asked about this and I am not fantastic about it myself, but it is remarkable. The Council of State criticises the bill, but the reaction is no way and the government continues, because the government feels differently. However, when the European Commission asks questions, we agree and stop. We could have at least discussed it with the European Commission. No, it didn't. Suppose we had succeeded, then we would not have to extend the opening time of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and that would have been bad! Even if the European Commission had asked a hundred questions, why wasn't that discussed? When it is not a question of questions, but of criticism, the government says so and does not take that criticism into account. Energy generated by gas is therefore treated differently from nuclear energy, and that is a very strange finding, unless that finding brings us to the essence. After all, what will happen? The majority will approve the draft law to keep Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for longer. Although the members who have heard the experts in the hearings and read what Mr Bens is writing know what time it is, in November the cracks will be reopened. It's written in the stars. In the statements on this subject, it dropped off. We asked a question about the expert who criticized the report, but the FANC man just laughed it off in committee. That's pretty much what we know. What will be the result? At the end of this year, the entire nuclear production plant was extended until 2022-2025. That is the only thing that will happen, and that is the only objective. It has to be that way. If the objective was security of supply, then there were and are other possibilities. If the objective is to preserve nuclear energy, there is only one possibility: under the pretext of security of supply, argue that the opening time of nuclear power stations should be extended. At the end of 2015, we will end up in a situation where, at times of high consumption, if demand is highest, one producer and one mode of production will still deliver 60% of production, including imports. Sixty percent! We are talking about market forces here. There is no market if 60% is supplied by one producer, that is simply not a market. Moreover, this 60% cannot be eliminated. Our nuclear reactor system means that they have to run continuously. That's not like France and Germany. In Germany, production can be reduced. We can't do that. So there is one form of production that will run continuously with extension. There will be a dominance of power on the market even in difficult times. We have seen Elijah's slides, which indicate that during the summer the nuclear capacity is sufficient for the full 100% of demand. What will one have to do? It is possible to decide whether or not renewable energy plants should be run. However, their production will have to be carried out or another solution will have to be found. Indeed, renewable power plants can be stopped, while nuclear power plants cannot be stopped. With this more than 7 000 megawatts, nuclear power stations will be monopolised during the summer. And you're talking about market forces? With this design, the majority reduces market forces. I have been asked who will pay the EUR 700 million and how it will go. When EUR 700 million is invested, that amount will be reflected in the price to be charged, which is logical. It will also be possible to sell electricity only if there is no other cheaper electricity on the network. In the other case, that electricity will not be able to be sold, assuming that there is enough other supply and thus other competitors will be able to enter the market effectively. If these nuclear power stations run all year round and push away all the other power stations, how will the other power stations offer their electricity in a competitive way? If our interconnection as it is today is at most 25% to 30%, how can an effective market operation be achieved? This is just the difference. The first hypothesis is that Objective 1 and 2 will not be extended. The second hypothesis is that during the first winter that will come in the winter of 2015-2016, through the emergency generators and through demand management at a high level, as in other countries, we will ensure that this is compensated and that we start interconnection as soon as possible. In that hypothesis, there is an alternative that is cheaper. Why is there any chance it's cheaper? That is a good chance, because the interconnection with Germany and the Netherlands also brings cheaper competitive electricity into the country today. It is no coincidence that the price in Belgium has been higher in recent months than in the other countries, whereas in the past it has not been, because competition is in the process of disappearing. This draft is going to remove competition even more, as it will eliminate the possibility of rapid interconnection. This does not only mean that fewer will come from abroad, but there will not be any new investment in the future either. Once Objectives 1 and 2 have been extended and Tihange 2 and Objective 3 are open again, no new investment will be made in Belgium. Don't believe that. You will therefore depend on a player for the price. A liberalised market, I should not tell the liberals, almost without import and export, where a player accounts for 60% of production, what does that mean? This means that the price will rise, as it is already doing. If we do not do this EUR 700 million, a simple investment of EUR 10 to 20 million will enable us to match cheaper electricity from abroad. This extension is not about certainty. When it comes to security of supply, you have alternatives. You should not go back to Mr Woitrin for that. You must go back to what is being introduced in the United Kingdom as the first measure and what is being requested in Germany by the large companies and also by us. It should not be a problem for a centre-right government to introduce the same measure as the Cameron Government does in Britain and what a company like Solvay is going to ask. But that is not what we are doing. The extension of Objective 1 will simply result in us having only nuclear energy in the future. History repeats itself. In 1986-87 we had the same discussion here. We would then have subsidised the construction of windmills. There was scientific research and subsidies. Belgium, together with the Netherlands, was quite far away at that time. We had, among other things, a company in Vilvoorde that produced windmills. At that time, the centre-right government decided not to do so because it had no future. It was decided to invest in the nuclear industry in Kalkar. That was the future. What happened to that? I refer to Denmark. Today, in one of the few countries where wage costs are higher than in Belgium, there are not many, but there are over ten thousand people working in the construction of windmills, in which the government has continued to invest. In Belgium there are zero people working in the construction of it. Zero. We invested our money in that nuclear industry, in Kalkar, several billions. What happened to Kalkar? A Dutch businessman bought it for two to three million euros to turn it into an amusement park. That's an amusement park now. There is a beautiful attraction made there, one can climb there in the cooling tower. That's where our money went. So we're gonna do the same thing here. We continue to invest in outdated technology. We put money in MYRRHA. The last government said we were going to try it for once, but we had to have private partners because we would stop otherwise. No, we're moving on. We're gonna keep putting our money in there. We will see within a few years that prices are first and foremost higher as they have been in the past. We will find that employment in the new sectors is in other countries and not in our country. That's what today is about. Don't keep saying it's about security of supply. There are alternatives. It's about a choice to go exclusively to the nuclear. That's a wrong choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u266	"The closure of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the establishment of new production units, gas plants and offshore wind farms, favour competition in the production market, which will reduce the cost of energy. The impact of Doel 1 and 2 closure cannot be underestimated. The legislator will send a strong signal and make known, moreover, the alternatives he wishes, in very difficult times. If Doel 1 and 2 were not closed, the credibility of exiting nuclear power would be undermined." This is an excerpt from what was said here, in this rostrum, on November 28, 2013, by the majority of the time. That majority, Madam Minister, you were part of it. This majority has committed, you have committed yourself, as a Member of Parliament at the time, behind these words. These are the words of the government, but the MPs said the same thing. I will quote very briefly from a liberal speech. "Investors also receive a clear signal. What is problematic is not the lack of alternative energy, but the lack of stability with regard to legislation." We are at the end of 2013 and Mr Clarinval, who at the time thought he might be the next energy minister, but that's how history is made that it's not him, said: "The economic actors concerned will really know how they can work and invest for the next 10 years. The Belgian State will be able to benefit from a clear and stable legal framework which has been negotiated with the players." It's been a year and a half. Today, it doesn't matter anymore. You ripped this contract, this commitment made at the time in relation to Doel 1 and Doel 2. All of this is no longer relevant today. So you came back to us with another project, with a project that contradicts what was, at the time, your own words, the words of your group, your political family and the majority. It's a dangerous and expensive project. It is also a fragile project, DIY and in spite of common sense. This has been well recognized in all the debates, including today. No, I did not quote the N-VA because, indeed, the speech was different. They weren't in the majority. I have nothing to say at this point. I will address Mr Jambon shortly when I talk about security aspects. The coherence here of your partner was to be highlighted. That's what I did. It is therefore a project in spite of common sense. We have seen this during the debates. This project does not solve the risk of blackout this winter. Worse still, it is a project that locks Belgium in the choice of the past. But above all, it is an unnecessary project because alternatives exist. Since the beginning of the work, two months ago, environmentalists have proposed some. At the time, we were almost in the desert and you weren't listening. But today, or rather Monday, June 15, 2015, there was a turning point. I'm reading the article in the newspaper Le Soir. Your spokesman replied that additional leads were indeed being studied. Here I read: "The idea of taking advantage of the excess production capacity of our Batavian neighbours has not fallen into the ears of a deaf man. At least our work will not have been in vain." I continue: "Elia would have ended up finding another solution." Mr. de Lamotte tried to bring Elia into committee. An interlocutor talks about a secure runway that achieves the same result as the Woitrin runway, that is, 1,000 MW. But, and this is the only downside to this contribution – and I would like to congratulate you, Madam Minister, on having changed your point of view on this – this solution should be officially presented in the coming days. And the journalist says: "No doubt after the vote on the nuclear bill". Frankly! Why wait? These leads are being worked out, it's your spokesperson who says it, it's your firm that says it. I assume that is correct, contrary to what Mr Ducarme said in committee. These leads are being worked out. Why didn't you, minister, introduce them to us? We never said the Woitrin track was the only track. In fact, we have presented others. But today we see that a nearly similar track, also working with the interconnection to the Netherlands, our neighbours, would allow us to import 1,000 megawatts. Why don't you do it? In the face of a project that costs 700 million euros, this alternative is at market price. Why don't you do it? And why hide it until after the vote? Perhaps because we could fear at that time that in the majority of the voices other than those we have already heard would still be heard? Maybe. But to the point where you were, minister, what was the risk? Why did you hide this too, when it's only positive? You imagine, as a minister, you could have said: "I have a solution: 1,000 megawatts from the Netherlands. We just tested and interconnection is possible. This is not exactly what Mr Woitrin presented, but there is a way". Why are you depriving yourself of this? Frankly, I don't understand it. During the 60 hours of debate we had in committee, you never mentioned that. You've always postponed that until later. And then we realize that in fact, there's something. You knew it existed. I suppose it wasn't hidden from you, unlike the Greenpeace decision mentioned earlier. You knew, however, that it was working. Why refuse to explain simply, in concrete terms, these existing avenues? Because you've made an ideological choice, a political choice, and you've kept up with these elements while alternatives exist. But you say: "No, I have set myself an objective, which is to prolong nuclear power and to please Electrabel and EDF; I absolutely have to go to the end; and the end justifies the means." I am not going to come back here, the report is quite complete, about all the events that have sparked our work in committee, but the end justified the means. Even in the majority, your partners say it in more or less dull words. I will take up Mr Wollants' remarks, who is not here – he is certainly continuing. But things are relatively clear. "The course could have been more elegant." It's stupid, but it's clear! For the CD&V, Mrs. Dierick, I didn't understand you. You make an official statement of the party on the day when Parliament meets to debate the subject by talking about improvisations. It's in your press release. Mr Wollants allows himself to answer questions. But you are making a declaration on your own initiative. Your words, referring to the minister and her method of work, are very clear: "This is improvisation. It can't happen again!" Since then, however, we have had on several occasions the reproduction of incidents, coucacs and even earlier in the plenary session. These words are more or less felted, because they emanate from the majority, but the signal was clear. In fact, the Prime Minister, like your party president, also intervened in the debate to clarify these elements. It is important to note Mrs Dierick's remarks in committee. There, you justified your shift from Doel 1 and 2's extension by the fact that in the short term there is no alternative to Doel 1 and Doel 2 (page 21 of the report) but today the minister tells you that there is an alternative, which Elia confirms. This alternative brings 1,000 megawatts, it's not quite Mr. Woitrin's track, but it's like Mr. Woitrin's track, and it's possible for next winter. But you will only be told after you have voted on Doel 1 and Doel 2's extension text. The justification for your vote or your favourable a priori is no longer valid: there is an alternative to Doel 1 and Doel 2! Today it is presented in the press and in a few days the minister wanted to present it publicly. The raison d'être of your vote no longer holds: an alternative exists. The same applies to the remarks made by the minister in connection with the proceedings, in the written justification on the text that was forwarded to us at the very beginning of the proceedings and which accompanies the bill, the explanatory statement states: "Why do we want to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2? Because the integration of foreign capacities into the Belgian network is not possible in the short term." This is text on page 5 of our committee's report. That's what you told us, minister. "Integration of foreign capacities into the Belgian network is not possible in the short term"! It is also learned that not only do you work there, but also that this integration is possible. There is no longer a need for this text. You're showing it yourself. But in the course of the debates, it was not possible to discuss it. Maybe today, a miracle will happen. Who knows! I do not believe in it too much, but let us allow the minister to explain herself earlier. Madam Minister, during the debates in committee, you have consistently shown bad faith. You've been hiding documents. You manipulated the truth. As today, you have relied on the three opinions of the Council of State. You have refused the adversarial debate on alternatives. You lied to Parliament. You have fled your responsibilities by hiding behind the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. You refused to include in the law a minimum of tags for negotiation with Electrabel. Although the chairman of the commission was unable to take the photo, you denied your 2013 and 2003 commitments. You've decided to be impavid! Do you know what this term means?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u267	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u268	Mr Piedboeuf, why is it rude to say that the minister is impavid? Here I have the excerpt from the magazine Le Vif, on page 41: "Marie-Christine Marghem does not see what the problem is. "I've decided to be impavid," she cuts, "and let those who don't know what that means go and see in the dictionary." I read the article as it is and the quote is from the minister. Mr Piedboeuf, if you have a problem, I can lend you my copy. For sixty hours, Madam Minister, we have worked hard to break down your legal reasoning on a point-by-point basis. We brought a lot of documents, even earlier. I'll always remember this episode about the '74 order you didn't have. Electrabel had it. We had to talk to the Monitor, but in this case, it was Electrabel. In a few minutes, we were able to provide you with a copy of this document. We have made proposals, we have tabled amendments. You, on your side, were stuck, robbed, stunned, impavid. That's what you're saying. You have remained in this choice of the past, you have forced the vote and you will bring the text to plenary, but you know that this text is not solid, it is not mature. As Mr. Wollants said in his interview, it's very risky. And you know that. The best proof of your awareness of the weakness of your text is your amendment, the amendment that the government sent to the Council of State. In committee, much has been said about the Council of State itself. I would like here to talk about the amendment and the justification that you yourself drafted to explain the purpose of this amendment. You have given it to me, it is in the report of the committee, which I will quote from: "In its opinion, the legislative section of the Council of State considers that the Doel 1 nuclear power plant was deactivated on 15 February 2015, so that it can no longer produce electricity and that the authorisations issued for this nuclear power plant also expire on 15 February 2015 and cannot be revived. The Council of State refers to the possibility of a specific authorisation procedure or other appropriate specific arrangements. To avoid any risk of security of supply and to respond to the advice of the Council of State, the bill is amended." Which means that you are aware of the problem and that you are aware of the need to change things. You write it yourself. It is not a text of the Council of State, it is not a text of the AFCN. That is the justification for your own amendment. I'm going to deconstruct the four times of your reasoning. First time: you acknowledge that there is a problem, a dead end and that the text is not on the road. Second time: you are looking for a solution, you are tabling an amendment. Third stage: this path of solution is rejected by the Council of State. Fourth time: since the proposal is rejected, the problem no longer exists. This obviously does not hold the road. The trail is rejected, but the problem remains. As I said earlier to Mrs Cassart who left us, the problem does not relate to authorization to operate. Of course, such authorisation is necessary. We need to be able to manage the waste, the safety of the site. No one thought otherwise. But you hung on, for weeks and weeks, claiming that the opposition had not understood, that the permission to operate is general. That is not true, from the outset, the opposition had understood it. What is at stake here – the Council of State says it and says it again, I mentioned earlier – is the fact that the provisions on permission to produce electricity lapsed on 15 February 2015. In its analysis of Amendment No 16 – I believe this is your amendment – the Council of State states that the operator must, in any event, apply for a new production authorisation – it is therefore not an exploitation – in accordance with Article 4, § 1 of the Act of 29 April 1999. The problem therefore lies in the fact that there is no longer any authorisation for the production of electricity. This was also reported by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Let me remind you of the conclusion of his legal analysis. It is contained in item 8 of the document contained in the annexes to our work. The legal opinion of the Federal Agency states: "It is appropriate to follow Opinion 57093/3 of the Legislative Section of the Council of State on the lapse of the authorisation of Doel 1, taking into account the wording of Article 4, § 2 of the Act of 31 January 2003. The authorisation of Doel 1 dated 24 January 1974 is in fact null and void." That's what the Federal Nuclear Control Agency says black and white. But, for your part, you prefer to stick to your position by pretending that we have not understood anything and that we are talking about operating authorization. But no, we're all talking about authorization to produce electricity. We know very well – and it is probably for this reason that you refuse to see things in the face or to recognize the situation – that, since there is no longer any authorization for the production of electricity, there is a need for a new authorisation. In doing so, we obviously need an environmental impact assessment and public consultation, even for a few months. I can't tell you that I was surprised myself. The Council of State had been asked about Amendment No. 18. The Council of State has said that even for four months, an environmental impact assessment and public consultation are needed. The Council of State goes further in its third opinion, I quote: "To accept the opposite, even on grounds of security of supply would be to empty this treaty provision of its substance". This is what you do, you rely on reasons for security of supply, but even this does not allow you to extend for four months without going through an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. Madam Minister, you can repeat your legal reasoning, but it is against the Aarhus Convention, it is against the Espoo Convention, it is against the legal opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, it is against the first opinion of the Council of State, it is against the second opinion of the Council of State, it is against the third opinion of the Council of State. You didn't like it when I made that list and I can understand it, but that's the reality. You are on your own from a legal point of view to defend this. This makes your situation particularly difficult. You recognise this fact in the search for a solution by the amendment. You also tried to drown the fish with this difference between exploitation and production. You write yourself at times that there is no longer a production authorization. The logical conclusion is that if there is no longer a production authorisation, this necessarily requires an environmental impact assessment. Earlier, we used a new piece, something that happened to us later, as part of the work: the 2013 government note is explicit about the government's intention. Not the part that you regularly take back in extract, but the full note that justifies why you must actually maintain an operating permit and distinguish it from the production authorization. There, you are in a legal impasse because your text does not amend Article 4 of the 1999 Law on the Organisation of the Electricity Market. Your text does not amend section 16 of the 1994 Law on the Protection of Populations from Ionizing Radiation. These two articles contain a passage that is unambiguous, but that you do not change. Article 4 § 1 of the 1999 Act states: "The establishment of electricity generation plants, the revision and renewal shall be subject to the prior granting of an individual authorisation issued by the Minister, with the exception of installations for the industrial production of electricity from the fission of nuclear fuels which may no longer be authorised". These sections, section 4 of the 1999 Act and section 16 of the 1994 Act, you do not change them. They continue to exist and state that there is no longer any possibility of authorization for the production of nuclear electricity. You're in the legal impasse! We don't find out today - it's been a while already - but this should lead you to think about it. In your haste, in your legal DIY, you did not bother to change these two articles. I repeat, you are in a stalemate. I turn now to the role of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which is your responsibility, Minister Jambon. And I thank you for paying attention this afternoon to our work. I regret, of course, that we have not been able to empty the debate on Mr Bens's comments, which have made the institution more open. The facts are there — I am thinking in particular of the medical situation. We respect that, of course, as we have said again in the Conference of Presidents. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. In the meantime, because I know that our work is being followed and that it will be read, I would like to issue four very clear warnings to you as the appropriate minister, but also to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, so to Mr Bens, his colleagues and their possible successors. The first warning is to tell the Federal Nuclear Control Agency that there is no question of going back. What has been written by it must be applied. The Federal Agency, as I mentioned earlier, considers the authorization to be obsolete: the legal opinion is clear to it. I will quote from the second legal note, which you immediately typed, Madam Minister. "It is up to the competent administrative authorities... "- here the AFCN -, "... once seized of the reactivation project submitted by the operator, to exercise their discretion and decide whether such studies are necessary according to the criteria". If I follow you correctly, minister, it is up to the federal agency to decide whether or not there is a need for an environmental impact assessment. You say that the Federal Agency will have to verify, within its jurisdiction, whether an environmental impact assessment is required. I assume that you are not questioning this statement which you have made in committee and which is in your written memorandum, which is submitted to the committee. But the Federal Agency has already taken a position on this as it has legally said that it has become obsolete. It is your legal note that I quote here and not Mr Jambon. In the report on our work – and I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the services, as my colleague said earlier – the question of the authorisation system will, in any event, of course be included in the dossier in the examination of the three green lights (legislative, technical, administrative) needed for the restart. That is to say, the first warning is important. The Federal Agency will have to remember what it wrote in paragraph 8, in its conclusion, namely that the authorization dated 24 January 1974 is in fact obsolete. And we are clearly waiting for him at the turning point on this issue, whether it be Mr. Bens or the steering committee or others tomorrow. The facts are clear: it was written at the time. And now you're saying it's up to the Agency to decide if it needs one. The Agency has already taken a position. Second warning to the AFCN: there can be no question of slashing the demands on the pretext of urgency. The federal agency's job – the minister has repeated as he wishes – is not to ensure security of supply, nor to ensure the security of Electrabel's portfolio. Their job is simply to look after security. Yes, we have fears. I can support them. Why does the Agency allow itself to say that the only hypothesis on which it agrees to work is to work over ten years? Why does the Autorité, which does not have to worry about profitability, think that a short-term extension – from one to three years – is not to be taken into account? It's not his job. It must just look at whether the project submitted to it meets all the requirements in terms of safety and security. It's not up to her to decide if it's for three years, five years or ten years. The second element that makes us fear that the Federal Agency will straddle its requirements is obviously all that concerns SALTO and the inspection role of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Mr Wollants, I do not know if you remember your first speech in the first debate on the first day. You were the first to intervene, since the N-VA is the largest group in parliament. It is stated in the first day's report, for your first speech: "Mr Wollants points out that Mr Bens's speech demonstrates the importance of exchanges of experience at international level, the peer review of which is an element in arriving at a clear view of nuclear safety". At that time, you didn't know there was a problem with SALTO. Of course, it was in time non-suspecto. You said in committee that the peer review was necessary before a clear view could be given. Today, we do the opposite. As we realized that there might be an agenda issue with the IAEA, we shifted events and decided to do the opposite. But what you said at the time is in the report and is today contradicted by the proposed timetable. I am speaking to the Federal Agency, because it is probably too late for the vote to take place here. What the Federal Agency itself wrote in the documents, including in 2014, is very clear about the fact that the SALTO must arrive before the recovery decision is made. On 18 April 2014, in a press release, the Federal Agency states: "SALTO missions are organised in two stages. A first preparatory mission, known as pre-SALTO, is first carried out at the nuclear power plants contemplating an LTO and a second so-called SALTO mission is then carried out in the installations whose operating time will be extended." "Go," and not "has been extended." This is the Agency's position, but it was before the government put pressure and told the Agency: "No more laughing here. Now let's get things going." What makes me fear the worst is what the minister made clear in the commission that the scope of the mission would be reduced, limited to a week, while this type of inspection usually lasts much longer and is done much more thoroughly. He also stated that the mission could not be completed until January 2017. So, Madam Minister, since you're still here...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u269	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u270	Please. In the meantime, I'm going to move on to the elements for Mr. Jambon. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u271	I think we're going faster with Mr. Jambon than with Mrs. Marghem. I have recalled the words of the Federal Agency, I would like to recall those of Electrabel. In a document tabled in 2012, Electrabel said: "The objective for us is to demonstrate that the preconditions, the management of aging, as well as the management of skills, knowledge and behaviour will have reached a sufficient level to begin the life extension period." Electrabel said in 2012 that this SALTO mission had to be done in advance in order to be able to justify the start of the new period. It started for Doel 1 on the 15th of February and will start for Doel 2 on the 15th of December. The Federal Agency reiterated in its recommendations the following: "The Security Authority recommends the arrival of a SALTO mission for an additional external assessment by the end of 2014". If there is consistency in what the Federal Agency is saying and if it does not put itself under the pressure of the government's desired timetable, there is no choice but to do the mission before deciding to extend. We say to the Federal Agency: don't accept, don't rob security, don't agree to work at the discount, as the minister proposes, with a light mission, with a schedule that doesn't respect what you asked for yourself. Demand that this mission take place before the plants are extended! In recent times, the Agency has lost a lot of credit and if it had to deny itself to its own schedule and requirements at the time, it would have lost all credit in this regard. This also applies to the level of requirement, at which one will check whether Doel 1 and 2 can continue their electricity production. "The level required in 2015 must be the level of the most recent power plants", as stated in the AFCN strategic note in 2009. In 2009, we have the advantage that the Agency writes a note without knowing what it will be and having the time since the first extensions are for 2015. The Agency stated at the time: "The level to be requested will be that of the most recent plants". And so not the level required in 1970 or 1975. The level of requirement must be that of the 2009 strategic note. This is our third warning to the Federal Agency. The fourth relates to the work that must be done before, in particular those related to ageing, must be carried out before the decision can be taken. Electrabel also said in 2012: "For ageing-related operations, we will do them between 2012 and 2014, so that everything related to ageing is done before the extension period". Today, the government wanted to act differently. But the Federal Agency, in its strategic note, clearly explains that for the aging aspect, any adjustments to the facilities must be made before the plants reach their 40 years of operation. This means that all this makes it impossible to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 by next winter. If the Federal Agency does not lower its level of requirement and meets what it said in its strategic note, it is mathematically and logically impossible to revive the power stations, but we fear that the Federal Agency will run away from its responsibilities and mission and prefer to submit to the government's diktat in terms of timing, whereas its mission is not to ensure that the measures are implemented quickly but simply that security and safety are full and complete. Alternatives exist. The first alternative is to prevent operators, mainly Electrabel because it is still the main operator in this field, from closing the thermal power plants. You're deploying such energy – I'm talking to your colleague, she's not here, but you'll pass it on to him – as well as the government, with a view to extending the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2. However, if you took 10% of this energy to quickly let Electrabel know that these thermal power plants should not be shut down, you would already have a solution for next year: 1,000 MW are available. The second lead, you found it yourself. This is interconnection with the Netherlands. Of course, this trail is real. The third track consists of demand management, storage. There are still other leads. We're not going to see them all in depth here. But rather than making this choice of alternatives, you have decided to prolong the uncertainty because, let's be clear, prolonging nuclear power means prolonging uncertainty, except for an actor, Electrabel! Electrabel will have the butter, that is Doel 1 and Doel 2 extended, not by one year, two or three years but by ten years! Electrabel will have the money from butter, a decrease in the nuclear contribution, namely the 700 million euros, and the smile of the minister, the lack of reaction to the closure of thermal power plants. In addition, Electrabel will have full risk insurance, namely the clause that they will introduce in the convention that, if the text does not reach the end of its journey, because it will not be finished after the vote in plenary, Electrabel will be reimbursed for its investments. Electrabel will therefore have the butter, the butter money, the minister's smile and the insurance all risks. Honestly, hat! Electrabel must do nothing, not even give his consent to the publication of the convention. It's never before seen! And in exchange for what? You're welcome! There is no guarantee of production because Electrabel can decide not to produce: "Everything done, we do not produce, even if we have the green light". Nor is there a reduction in the amount of citizens' bills or a guarantee from third-party investors. Let us remember that at the beginning of the work, the minister said, "I'm making a big effort to have another investor next to Electrabel." None of this. Worse, Electrabel allows himself to say that this is not his problem. My gsm number is known, they just have to call me. Mr. Minister of the Interior, you will take over. Butter, butter money, smile and all-risk insurance are strong in the face of the lack of commitment on the other side. We are on the eve of the vote on this text in plenary session, but you know as well as I do, it is a long way from being finished. Mr Wollants, you acknowledged this in the interview you gave the day before the previous plenary session, which was aborted: "Het is de eerste stap van een lang traject." We are still far from the end of the tunnel, especially the government. We didn't say our last word. Citizens, associations, the European Union and the Commission have not said their last words. Minister, do not think that with the possible vote on this text in plenary, you will have finished this matter. The life of the Doel 2 power plant is still far from being extended and, above all, the Doel 1 power plant is still far from being restarted. Appeals are under way. We are also awaiting the hearing of Mr Bens. Not to mention the convention we will have to discuss again. There is the Federal Nuclear Control Agency on which I made my remarks. There is the micro-crack test and, in general, all the other tests in progress. The risk is really very important in this area. (Minister enters the Chamber) Madam Minister, you're in a good place. I was reminding the minister of your remarks: "It is not a question of extending at all costs, without nuclear security measures being taken. Security measures will be taken along and wide." We see today that this is not the case, that you are forcing the Federal Agency and that you are bypassing the speeches that were made at the time in so-called "strategic notes". You have made the ideological choice and the choice of a methodological craft that leads us to a triple impasse: a legal impasse, an economic impasse and an energy impasse. The end justifies the means. You have decided to pass the Electrabel gain before the security of the citizens. It's not our choice. You're playing with fire. If there's a problem this winter, you'll be the only one responsible. You will be reminded that since February, you have been presented with alternatives and that you would then have had time to launch an environmental impact assessment. In February, you would have had time to set up the public consultation. Today, you don't have time. This text is likely to be voted on, but it is far from over. This concludes a chapter but the story is not over. We did not say our last word on this issue, far from it. Be assured of that!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u272	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, this evening I want to take the bill as it is presented to us by the government in a different way than the one that has been going on since the beginning of the debate and trying to have another approach, as has been the case on many occasions in committee. I come directly to the heart of the question. While your government keeps repeating that it wants to attract investors to Belgium, its energy policy does not in any way guarantee stability in the field of energy supply and prices, which is nevertheless essential to attract and retain investors in our country. Ensuring the competitiveness of companies by guaranteeing them correct electricity prices is essential. However, this bill does not achieve either of the above objectives. Nor does it guarantee a reasonable price for the individual. I therefore appeal to the majority to take up this matter and to analyse this legislation so that we can, at last, seriously address the issue of security of supply at a reasonable price and reject the text as drafted. Minister, a key question must be asked of this government. Why didn't you consider solutions to ensure security of supply in the short term, i.e. for next winter? Indeed, Doel 1 and Doel 2 will probably not work next winter; everyone agreed here and you yourself recognized it. We just learned that Elia installed a fourth phaser transformer at the Zandvliet station. Elia's spokesperson confirms that a phaser transformer is comparable to a tap. It allows to adjust the current flow rate and to better manage the flow. In Zandvliet, a second phaser transformer can offer additional possibilities in the winter. This is a different alternative from the one mentioned with the Woitrin track. How did she come? Simply take his phone, contact Elia's spokesperson and look at the files. It should be recalled that, according to some experts, our new interconnection capacity, apart from the track mentioned by Mr. Woitrin, would amount to an additional 700 MW thanks to the installation of this phaser transformer in series following another existing apparatus. I would also point out that Doel 1 and Doel 2 represent 866 MW. We are in comparable heights. This facility would be temporary in order to improve import capacity for next winter. But, following the Brabo project – which will significantly increase our interconnection with the Netherlands in the course of 2016 – this post will be combined with the other three phase transformers. It would appear that this serial installation is uncommon. That's right. But why have we not been able to hear Elia speak on this technique in committee? What is the majority afraid of? Of good news in terms of interconnection, no doubt... This other avenue that should be addressed in order to guarantee security of supply in the short term is obviously, as we have mentioned in committee, the rental of large generators with gas or diesel. It seems that Elia has already defined places to connect these mega-containers. We have learned that on 30 April Aggreko, whose name has been mentioned several times in committee and in session and which rents generators, was received at your office, Minister, as well as Siemens and General Electric. Why didn't you follow up on these meetings? Remember that industrial groups such as ArcelorMittal will not wait for you to decide before renting these groups for their own consumption and thus guard against the release next winter. The installation of this type of unit is quite feasible in the short term. In the meantime, Madam Minister, you're wasting time. You're using your time to defend nuclear power at all times. There are other avenues. This question requires a clear answer from the majority. To rule is to anticipate. Your bill does not provide anything to guarantee security of supply for next winter. And, in a month, we'll be on vacation. Winter will be at our doorstep, and no concrete action will have been taken. We need to be proactive in this case. We must react and not wait until November to assess whether these leads are mature. Let us remember that all these solutions are credible alternatives. A few elements will help us realize a retroact of the discussions to highlight this legal expertise that you are asking for, Minister. Remember the royal decrees of authorization of Doel 1 and 2 that we have requested, first in writing, and then, several times. You should know, Madam Minister, who you define as a lawyer, that you said that parliamentarians had to pick them up at Electrabel's because you didn't have them... Admit that it's amazing. The commission also witnessed the revelation of the existence of a legal opinion of a law firm requested by your firm, while for two weeks you denied in committee to the House, having asked for such an opinion. Parliamentarians were again given an additional lie, since you tried to make them believe that this opinion had been requested by your administration, but not by you. The small stories of this debate do not end there: you then said that you had been holding this opinion for several months when it was only in early May, and then to say that the content of this opinion, you had in mind for several months before you even received it. So we had the opportunity to discover your divinatory talent. Why did you want to hide this opinion? Because he expressly points out that the current bill does not guarantee the legal certainty necessary to extend Doel 1. On this point, I would like to refer to the opinions delivered by the Council of State, which will eventually have to decide with the Constitutional Court. But when we hear you, for the judges of the Council of State or the magistrates of the Council of State, this is the second session assured. You missed them, you didn't listen to them. Or perhaps you insist on repeating your legal analysis, which we have described as a bancale towards and against all, including that of the AFCN. Finally, it may be this bill or the administrative acts that will result from it: we will have to wait until the second session to know. As the Council of State points out, nuclear power plants are built to produce electricity on an industrial scale, and once this activity disappears, on the ground that it is prohibited by law from a given date, they actually no longer have a function. Mr Friart, even if there is fuel, as you said, but rather fuel on hold, a nuclear power plant is not a fuel museum. The Council of State is very clear: "The prohibition on the production of electricity provided for in Article 4(1) of the Law of January 2003 has the effect that the production authorisation has become obsolete". In addition, the Council of State considers that, "to the extent that the operating authorisation also contains provisions on permission for industrial electricity generation from the fission of nuclear fuel, the latter ended on 15 February 2015, as set out in Article 4(2) of the 2003 Act". It is also the text of the AFCN concept note. When this bothers, the data set is not retained. And, with regard to the reopening of Doel 1, the Council of State confirms that the provisions of the Espoo, Aarhus, the Habitat Directive and the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive must be complied with. He said that, in the analysis of Amendment No 16, which we tabled. It appears that the Royal Decree of 11 October 2000, which effectively regulates the procedure for the authorization of production, does not contain provisions that meet the obligations of consultation and environmental impact assessment laid down in the conventions and directives. As we have pointed out on many occasions, Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment against the danger of ionizing radiation, which regulates the procedure for the authorisation of exploitation, contains, on the other hand, requirements for consultation and environmental impact assessment, which can in principle be interpreted as being in conformity with these conventions and directives in order to be able to fulfil the above obligations. Both production authorisation and operating authorisation procedures must be followed in order to meet the requirements for consultation and environmental impact assessment. As far as Amendment No 16 is concerned, the Council of State considers that, after Doel 1 has been deactivated, making it compulsory to apply for and obtain a new authorization to explore would make it possible to comply with the rules of international law and European law applicable to the reopening of Doel 1. The Council of State makes it clear that it does not matter whether or not these obligations have a direct effect, contrary to what the Minister stated in committee. When you sign this type of agreement, Madam Minister, you hire the Belgian State. You must respect international conventions. There are judgments of the Court of Cassation which actually say that when one deals with a direct effect, it is superior to the Constitution. When international law is dealt with with with direct effect, Belgian law prevails. You cannot evade the advice of international conventions. The Council of State also considers that the obligations for consultation and environmental impact assessment laid down in the two conventions, Espoo and Aarhus, must also be complied with for the legislative decision to extend the life of the two nuclear power plants concerned, at least if this extension is not accompanied by the renewal of one or more of the required authorisations. As a reminder, Mr. Bens, Director of the AFCN, stated, with respect to this bill, that it was a somewhat bizarre legal acrobatics. I wish him a speedy recovery, but it is a pity that we have not been able to question him at this time, but we will return to it. The revelation of the draft amendment on the retroactivity of Doel 1, which the government itself has tabled in the Council of State, proves well that even the government is convinced that this bill is not on the road and that it has thus tried to find a solution through this legal fiction, as the Council of State says. This amendment has been swept away! But the minister says that the opinion of the Council of State is one of many. You have therefore rejected the first-grade students sitting on the Council of State but you respect the legal opinion of Electrabel whose impartiality no one doubts! Another extremely important issue that concerns us is the break between government and nuclear safety. Mr.Minister of the Interior, you have stated and confirmed that the SALTO study would not take place before the beginning of 2016, and therefore potentially after the Doel 1 restart and Doel 2 extension. It is therefore a breach in the management of nuclear safety. While, as part of the extension of Tihange 1's operating life, AFCN requested IAEA to organize a pre-SALTO mission in 2012, this will not be the case here. Even though AFCN and Electrabel recognize, in several published documents in non-suspecto tempore, the need for such control prior to the extension of the lifespan. For the CDH, it is essential that the IAEA, which is an international and recognized authority, carry out this control prior to the restart of Doel 1 and the extension of Doel 2 and not just AFCN. The government cannot compromise on nuclear safety. Moreover, we still do not know the list of investments required before and after Doel 1 and 2 are restarted, nor the amounts of these investments. We would have liked to have asked Mr. Bens about this. On the other hand, what we know now is the story of the director's small envelopes. What credibility can be given to this situation after these statements? He confessed in an interview that he was even offered and so we question his independence. Is this one irreproachable? Should we not be certain that the guarantee of the safety of our plants is unwaveringly intact? Mr. Bens is the nuclear gendarmerie and we are waiting for the gendarme to be honest. To follow, Minister, you have been declaring for weeks that these two reactors must be extended for ten years to ensure security of supply for next winter. It must be noted that Doel 1's restart is indeed in jeopardy. The government has refused, through you both here, to say that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will produce electricity next winter by declaring that the AFCN has yet to give its green light. This seems obvious to us, but it is not enough. The control of the AFCN must be validated by the IAEA and this cannot take place until next winter. What will the government do if it cannot reopen these two reactors? At present, no answer is given to this question and the alternatives that we have asked and which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, they could not be examined in detail with the experts in committee. So you're presenting us today with a policy of the "all-to-nuclear". The majority again refused Elia's hearing yesterday in the Economic Committee in order to be able to actually examine these alternatives. We are therefore witnessing a disconnection of the advances made during the previous legislatures to develop the energy mix. Thus, the call for tenders on gas-fired power plants that would have brought back 800 megawatts was swept away by a reverse hand by means of a royal decree. Your renunciation in the tender package is a good example of your lack of energy, Minister. While you are simply receiving a preliminary opinion from the European administration, you are surrendering, you are not proactive, you are not contacting and you are abandoning this call for tenders, unlike the United Kingdom, which has succeeded in obtaining the approval of all European Commissioners for the implementation of a much more expensive support mechanism than the tendering mechanism. It should be noted that this invitation to tender, let us recall, had been approved by the Council of Ministers under the previous legislature, of which you were a member, in Kern by Minister Reynders at the time Deputy Prime Minister. But why justify Mrs Marghem's position on the invitation to tender? The MR had accepted it in the previous legislature. Was he afraid to make other decisions? Was he already opposed to that mechanism? Or is the decision today to move straight towards nuclear policy? As you know, both nuclear and renewable energies are must run. Therefore, more flexible production tools, such as TGVs, must also be developed to complement the development of renewable energies. But today, we do not see how you will proceed. Finally, regarding Electrabel, in view of the total legal uncertainty over the extension of Doel 1, will Electrabel agree to extend Doel 1 and to invest considerable sums for youth work? The work of this reactor is based on this legally fragile bill, which is likely to be attacked either by the Council of State for a number of administrative acts or by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, would Electrabel agree to extend only Doel 2? The question has never been asked and it remains unanswered. Furthermore, on a number of issues, is it acceptable, under the mechanism, that a separate fee be introduced while the fee in both cases relates to the ten-year extension of a nuclear reactor? I'm talking about Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1. Is it not contrary to the principles of equality to impose two different mechanisms whereas Tihange 1 belongs to two operators (Electrabel and EDF) and Doel 1 and 2 belong only to Electrabel? Do you not fear an EDF remedy if this operator feels damaged and believes that the Doel 1 and 2 mechanism is more advantageous for the operator than the Tihange 1 mechanism? No answer to these questions either. As for the compensation mechanism, what you are accused of is to go on your knees to negotiate this fee with Electrabel once you are feet and fists bound by the law that has been approved by your majority. Minister, we should not have introduced this bill until we had an agreement with Electrabel. Now you will go and tell them that there will no longer be any nuclear contribution to be made in view of the study of the CREG and that you need them because your entire energy policy is based on nuclear energy and that, legally, you can implore them to extend these two reactors by ten years. In the face of this legal uncertainty, Electrabel has two possibilities: either it will not undertake to extend these two reactors, or it will require guarantees to compensate for the legal uncertainty that threatens this extension. Minister, you have still not answered the question of how you are going to proceed, in order to extend Doel 1 and 2 until the end of next winter as provided for in the bill. If there is no agreement with Electrabel, what will be the solution? Are we going to a requisition? No answer either to these questions and therefore no clear answers from the government! Without a clear response from the government and a break from your majority to ensure security of supply, this winter will be a clear threat to security of supply. Madam Minister, nuclear safety, legal safety, security of supply, the three feet of a triptych that is essential to operate, your bill does not meet these three criteria. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u273	Mr President, Madam Minister, I rise with all the reservations of the person who admired the work of his colleagues who, being members of the committee, which I am not, have conducted a good legal and political debate. I come to bring a voice that will probably not have the same value as those that have followed this debate since the beginning of committee work, but I admit that I have been very intrigued by the legal debate. I had a doubt because even though Janson's consultation was a bit confusing in his writing, it insinuated doubt. It must be said that when we read the last opinion of the Council of State, which felt obliged to do a legal pedagogy that seemed to be elusive to many, it must be recognized that the issue is now well-identified from a legal point of view. In short, the government thought it would escape the direct effects of the Espoo and Aarhus conventions, saying: "You don't understand anything. There is the operating authorisation and the production authorization. And the production authorisation is not subject to these international conventions." Here, the Council of State points to a legal reasoning. We will see if it is validated by the Constitutional Court. We will return to this procedure before the Constitutional Court. What does the Council of State tell us? It must be recognized that the obligations under both conventions – I am not talking about the Habitat Directives – are not worded in the same terms. But the Council of State says, at least in a clear way – others before me have reminded you here – that "extension of the life of a nuclear power plant must be seen as a significant modification of an activity within the meaning of the Espoo Convention and must also be considered as an update of the conditions covered by the Aarhus Convention." In both cases, the obligations of consultation and environmental impact investigation are incumbent upon you in fulfilment of these two international conventions. More specifically for the Espoo Convention, there is an opinion of the European Economic and Social Council which gives the interpretation and the Council of State quotes this opinion of the Economic and Social Council. Very clearly, the extension of the life of a nuclear power plant is considered by the parties to the Convention to be such a significant modification of an activity and must therefore be equated with the application of Article 1(5) of the Convention. I think the legal structure has tightened. Legal clarification is provided by the opinion of the Council of State. Perhaps you expect that the interpretation of the Constitutional Court is not as strict as that of the Council of State. In my opinion, what you expect even more is that the delays in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, a fortiori if the Court were to refer a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling – which would probably give you a period of a few years, say five years – would allow you to spend the winter. That's the case. I think that should be your calculation. I'll listen to you with interest. I believe that basically, unless you run the risk of having a suspension of the law – but it is true that this risk is minimal before the Constitutional Court – you think that even if the obligations resulting from international conventions are required, we will only know it at the end of a lengthy procedure and that in the meantime, you or a successor will surely come back with a repairing text. I'm definitely taking the prognosis. This Parliament will not be completed without you returning with such a text. But as I say, you save time to spend the winter by evacuating a legal problem that you know to be burdensome if, at the end of the procedure, the Constitutional Court were to annul a number of provisions of the law. In short, you do the calculation as bad debtors who know that the cost to creditors is such and that the length of the proceedings is such that one can remain in bad faith in legal terms because one does not expose oneself too much in the light of the time limits in the matter of justice. I believe that this is ultimately the government's secret calculation that if the legal threat were to be made more precise, it would come back with another piece of legislation before the Council of State. Beyond this legal debate, the outcome of which will not be decided here because we are not entrusted with it, I would like to give very quickly but in a key way the position of the FDF with regard to energy supply and security of supply, which is a substantive debate. Let's be honest! You have inherited it, like others from your predecessors, and you have been confronted like them with many unknowns, constraints, and even lack of political will to really address this debate, as other States have done. For example, Germany has dared, with a much clearer political will than ours, to face this debate. I remember that in 2003 already, when the first law was passed for the release of nuclear power, the responsibility of the then Secretary of State for Energy, Olivier Deleuze, who had planned the release of nuclear power but did not provide for alternative sources of energy, was called into question, perhaps in part rightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u274	This is a debate that we have had on a regular basis. Each amendment to the original 2003 law raised the question of where we were going in the long run, how long, and what political will. It must be acknowledged that this is the real substantive debate. But you're different from him, too. And we don't see very clearly yet. Indeed, the government agreement includes passages that are rather equivocal or even dangerous. I quote: "The government is committed to ensuring the security of energy supply, affordability and sustainability of energy in the short and long term so that it can ensure the exit of nuclear power from the present generation" – I say of the present generation – "reactors in 2025". This suggests that perhaps, the construction of the new generation, the so-called IV generation, whose concept is still in the research phase and whose prototypes are probably not expected until 2030, you could turn to another generation of energy from nuclear fission based on a new generation. [[(...): (...)]] Mr President, I understood that the N-VA was in favour of the appointment of another president. I understood that you were successful in the performance of your duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u275	In my opinion, so do you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u276	As I said, I'm too modest to believe I have the favors of NV-A.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u277	Don't be desperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u278	Never do that, I assure you! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u279	We'll listen first to Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u280	I was saying there's more than one doubt about your willingness to get out of nuclear energy permanently. Yet, the Federal Office of the Plan, in its excellent report of October 2014 entitled "The Energy Landscape in Belgium. Prospects and challenges for 2050", explains what the direction we need to take in terms of energy production and security of supply should be. He reminds us that Belgium's energy dependence is expected to increase by 9% between 2010 and 2050, although initially it is decreasing somewhat to increase sharply in 2030 and stabilise in 2050. While the net electricity import level is relatively low in 2010, it is becoming more important, according to the Federal Office, in 2020 due to the planned release, at the time of writing of this report, of nuclear power, on the one hand, and the integration of many variable renewable energy sources into the future electricity system, on the other. The Plan Bureau estimates that an additional EUR 10 billion will be required in real terms for fossil fuel imports in 2050 compared to the 2010 invoice. It also notes that by 2050, an additional production capacity of approximately 1,250 MW on average will have to be foreseen each year. During the critical period 2020-2025, during which most of the nuclear fleet is expected to be dismantled, a production potential of no less than 5,000 MW will disappear. In monetary terms, these investments to be made by 2050 amount to a total of 62 billion euros – the first half being injected before 2030, and the other between 2030 and 2050. You will therefore see, Madam and Mr Ministers, the importance of defining the inter-federal energy pact to which you referred in your political guidance note, in order to "allow the socio-economic and environmental transformations which are necessary for a period of at least twenty to twenty-five years". It will be up to you to reconcile the needs of our three regions. I must acknowledge that Wallonia has suffered a decline in terms of the potential for renewable energy development, which, in addition to being intermittent in nature, has in recent years been subject to political and legal uncertainty as well as poor public management which is not the best augury and which, above all, do not give confidence to the citizens. Another CRISP study, written by Fabienne Collard, reveals the definite potential of biomass and cogeneration for wind and solar energy. For my part, I regret the lack of predictability of the Walloon authorities in terms of exploiting Walloon geothermal potential. I have also recently heard the presentation by an eminent specialist from the University of Mons – whose very great expertise is known as well as that of the University of Liège in this field – on the knowledge of seismic mapping of the Walloon basement. Of course, investments are not negligible. Of course, this does not offer a very high degree of production autonomy. But this is not to be overlooked in the search for a balance for the energy mix. I cannot appeal too much to the competent authorities not to forget this dimension of energy production. What is the future of this energy mix? Your government will not oppose each other's energies. In doing so, you seem to be moving closer to France's position, which, under the energy transition planning law for green growth adopted in July 2014, aims to reduce nuclear power to 50% of total energy production – with the closure of twenty out of fifty-eight reactors – and to increase renewables to 40% by 2025. In short, France and other States make the choice to leave nuclear power partially by preserving an important or even predominant place. This is not our choice and in this we join the CRISP study, which I quoted. I am not going to repeat all the conclusions. Undoubtedly, combined cycle thermal power plants, known as steam-gas turbines, fuelled with natural gas, need to be developed, the advantages of which are known to reduce CO2 emissions. And let us not forget the storage of electricity in turbinage pumping plants, which also allows electricity generation to be balanced and, in particular, to be replaced by renewable generation when weather conditions are not optimal or when energy consumption peaks. The Federal Office of the Plan indicates that the electric landscape will experience a deep moult until 2050. If we take the option, which we believe is necessary for reasons of safety and the protection of public health, of the end of nuclear production, of abandoning coal, that the gas will shrink before making a dramatic increase, and finally that renewable energy sources will really grow, then, in 2050, two forms of energy will be indispensable: renewable energy sources, which alone account for 54% of net production, and natural gas, which would provide 45% of this production. This is the direction recommended by the Federal Planning Office. I can't fit in with that logic. The outlook for the evolution of production costs in fuel-free industries is clearly declining. Fuel lines have the advantage of offering electricity production that can be perfectly modular and centralized, which gives them a definite advantage over fuel-free lines, with the possible exception of geothermal power. That is why, minister, I think we should have the political courage and a clear vision for the coming years. The decisive choices for the energy mix are now in play. Political courage to dare out of nuclear power in a definitive and clearly stated way after 2025, and a vision of implementing a sustainable energy mix, similar to that carried out in Germany: immediate shutdown of eight nuclear reactors, accelerated closure of the remaining nine reactors, in order to get out completely of nuclear power in 2022. What Germany has planned, we too can do in 2025: replacement of gas or coal plants to fill the renewable supply, revision of the support mechanisms for renewable energy, moderate exemption from the contribution to the development of renewable energy for large companies in order to improve their competitiveness. This is the path that Germany has shown us and which we must follow. These are the thoughts I wanted to bring to your knowledge in order to broaden the debate on an essential issue that undoubtedly determines the future prosperity of our economies and our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u281	Mr President, let's imagine that the AFCN gives the authorisation to take over Doel 1 and Doel 2. I can already imagine the report signed by Mr Bens: "It's all right, you can take over the activities, the risk is limited to two dead. There'll be a maximum of one drowned and one felled from a crane. There will be no more risk than that." Mr. Bens's remarks are challenging, but they are also ambivalent. On the one hand, there is the words of a fundamentalist of nuclear power, who speaks very clearly and very carefully. On the other hand, it's someone who's not afraid to say things the way he thinks. He says so when it comes to nuclear fundamentalism, but he also says so when he talks about the government or Electrabel. When he talks about the government, he says "the bill is a bizarre legal acrobatics." When he spoke of Electrabel, he said that "before Electrabel, it was a box of engineers where the technique prevailed: we built beautiful plants that worked well". We feel the nuclear fundamentalist. "Now, the most important thing is making money." And I'm not going to raise the envelope questions because I'm still going to be angry with my colleagues in the MR! We have a problem with the loss of credibility of this Federal Agency that has decision-making power while the International Atomic Energy Agency is probably going to do these Salto tests. Despite what the Minister of the Interior, who has just left, said in committee, "no concessions on nuclear safety", we will not wait for the Salto tests to take place before relaunching Doel 1 and Doel 2. How can we reconcile the fact that we don't want a concession and, at the same time, we don't have to do that before we restart the plants, and therefore we are content with the Federal Agency? The Nuclear Exit Act dates back to 2003. Since then, six governments have succeeded each other with Verhofstadt, Leterme, Van Rompuy, Di Rupo and Michel. But no government has done anything. They considered that it was not their job and that the market was going to fix everything. But the market hasn't settled anything! It was said that through liberalisation it would come on its own, as by miracle. No! The miracle of liberalization has not been achieved. What we have seen is that by letting the market do, instead of revitalizing renewable energy, a series of gas-fired power plants have been closed. Of course, today, Electrabel can, as well as the government, say that we have to keep nuclear power plants in order to avoid the shortage. Somewhere, this is a shortage that suits Electrabel well. We know that nuclear power plants are completely amortized and that this brings maximum money to Electrabel. Doel 1 and 2, it's not much in fact, it's two small plants. It would be enough to maintain or restart the Esch-sur-Alzette plant in Luxembourg or the Drogenbos plant that we want to close to have the equivalent of Doel 1 and 2. Looking back a little further, 5,000 MW of additional capacity could have been obtained from all the plants that private producers had committed themselves to creating. Doel 1 and 2 represent 800 MW, that's not much. It is clear that this revival of nuclear power is not intended to address the shortage. If we really wanted to deal with the shortage, there would be many other solutions. It was sufficient not to allow all these plants to be closed or to maintain the planned ones. But of course, Electrabel's objective is to maintain nuclear power. The problem is that nuclear power is not a biscuits, toys or beer factory. It is not the production of Saint-Feuillien, Mr Friart, even if there are tanks, but it is still a little more dangerous than the production of Saint-Feuillien.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u282	In this regard, we have nuclear power plants that are very old. Forty years is very old for a nuclear power plant. Perhaps the government wants to extend the age of plants to 67, but there is a clear danger! Greenpeace warns against the fact that the perimeter of the Doel power plant is inhabited by a million and a half people, quite impressive configuration. I can repeat the words of the former director of AFCN, Willy De Roovere, who said in 2012, at the time of his departure: "If I see the risks today, I would have preferred to have other sources of energy". There are risks that, at bad times, can lead to disasters. Beyond the cost of human danger, the danger to the environment, the danger to life, there is an economic consideration which, in my view, is less important, but let us talk about the economic issue also in the event of a nuclear disaster. A simple nuclear fire would cost EUR 23 billion compared to the cost of a blackout mentioned earlier by Mrs Cassart. It's not much. It should be borne in mind that Electrabel is only insured to the tune of EUR 1.2 billion. Compared to that 23 billion, that's not much. If we had a Fukushima-style disaster in Doel, it would be 742 to 1,412 billion euros. This would mean no more or less than the economic bankruptcy of our country. I will not go back to the saga of what has been called the 'Marghemgate'. You have at least had the opportunity to have your name associated with a substantive. The opinion of the Council of State of 8 May 2015 refers to a legal fiction, states that an impact study is necessary. Let us not forget the opinion of the Council of State of June 2015, the saga of the so-called legal opinion of your firm, Mrs Marghem, but which was in fact that of a private law firm. My colleagues have made sufficient mention of these points. What's behind this? That's what I'm interested in. Does what's behind it seem like a crack? Mrs. Marghem, I'll take your defense. We can't really talk about flogging. If it's sniffing, I think it's organized sniffing. I simply believe that the real energy minister in Belgium is not Marie-Christine Marghem, it is Electrabel. I've already had the opportunity to tell you. It is also Electrabel who has high office representatives in your firm. It can be seen that rarely or never a government has so clearly chosen the Electrabel camp. On the one hand, this government makes extraordinary gifts to Electrabel. There were already the tax gifts that Electrabel took advantage of. Now there are these gifts in terms of maintaining nuclear energy with fully cushioned power plants. On the other hand, the government's plan is to increase the VAT on energy from 6 to 21 per cent. It also provided for the removal of the safety net. He submitted the intercommunal energy to ISoc. For consumers and citizens, this is a whole series of additional taxes and price increases. Why shut down gas power plants and not nuclear power plants? Because the power plants are totally amortized. Finally, the PTB has an alternative that is to oppose the limits of this market. We are witnessing the failure of the exit of nuclear power because we have left power to private operators. I therefore believe that the state must take over the energy sector with a future energy plan in which the state takes the keys to sustainable development. Where do we see a model like this? Mrs. Marghem, take a little trip. Go to our German neighbors for example. Go to Munich and see how it's going. You often quote the German social model when it comes to breaking wages. You could talk about the German energy model. Munich has received international awards because it is one of the world's leading cities in terms of green energy. Who produces this green energy? These are not private operators. In Germany, private operators, multinationals account for 6.5% of the green economy. They are public enterprises, communal enterprises. The mayor of Munich, a social democrat, explains that it is not of interest to multinationals to produce green energy and that he has had to make public energy. I could mention the case of Copenhagen, with wind turbines which are essentially run by public companies or cooperatives. These are successes in nuclear exit and green energy. Why? Because it is public companies that are manoeuvring. We are not talking about nationalisation but about communicativeisation because it is indeed public enterprises, municipal enterprises that are at the manoeuvring stage. If we really want to have an energy future, as the majority of the population wants today, we must follow this path. This is both an energy issue because we know there are risks for next winter and the following winters, with or without Doel 1 and Doel 2. It is also an environmental issue because we know the dangers since Fukushima. Finally, it is a democratic issue because I do not think it is the multinationals who must decide the energy fate of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u283	Mr President, Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, allow me first of all to regret that the debate on Belgium's energy future has been the scene, in recent weeks, of a cleverly orchestrated strategy to spread panic among the population. All the techniques were used to spread fear and misinformation with the sole aim of shutting down the power plants. First of all, the choice of words has not been innocent, since the inclusions that have been observed have been transformed, and you will grasp the nuance, in cracks. Wim De Clercq, Chief Nuclear Officer of Electrabel, nevertheless confirmed in his hearing in the House's committee on 25 February 2015 that it is the detection of hydrogen defects in tanks. These defects are hydrogen inclusions that formed during the casting and forging phase of the tank at the grain level in the material.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u284	I see that it makes some members of the opposition laugh.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u285	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u286	I am a member of the opposition, but for my part, I am objective and I am trying to find a way to be sufficiently interesting for the majority of our population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u287	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u288	I'm not in the majority. I have nothing to do with the latter. If I may, I would like to express my position. Mr Calvo, I listened to you, as I listened to each of the speakers, and I did not react. Mr. President, I'm on my way. A bill has been tabled to distribute iodine capsules throughout the country, as if the imminence of a cataclysm required immediate and drastic solutions. On the other hand, the issue of waste is systematically on the foreground, as if nuclear power were to result in its release throughout the country. Even the nuclear bomb was, unsurprisingly, invited in the arguments. The emergency plans are no longer based on Chernobyl but on Fukushima, whereas the geographical and geological situation of our plants is not the same as that of the Japanese plant. You have understood this, ladies and gentlemen, not only does the People's Party regret this demonisation of nuclear power and the alarmist statements that are being made, but it also supports the extension of power stations. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u289	No one's perfect! Only fools don't change their minds. At the moment, we simply cannot do without these plants. Nuclear energy is, first of all, the cheapest, much less expensive than gas. In times of crisis, and while we all hope for a return to growth, we must ensure that companies pay the lowest possible price for their energy consumption. This is also true of the employment and economic situation of our country. Electrabel's boss, Philippe Van Troeye, warns that, without an agreement and in the absence of stability, there will be no investment by his company, with the possible result of the loss of 5,000 jobs. Second, alternative energies do not yet deliver the expected results. Even if we must continue in research, we cannot, for the moment, rely exclusively on them. Wind turbines have a load rate – that is, the ratio between actual production and maximum efficiency – of between 17 and 25%. The intermittance of the wind turbine thus requires the revival or creation of thermal power plants which are large emitters of CO2. Terrestrial wind is unpopular and is the subject of numerous appeals from citizens who do not support the ruin of their landscape. Moreover, a recent German study indicates that the infrasound produced by wind turbines is poor for health. Finally, this technique is expensive and will have an impact on citizens' bills. The other alternative sources of energy are not yet sufficiently developed. However, we call for a broader debate and for research on coal gas or shale gas. We know that it has enabled the United States to recover. We must at all costs keep our energy destiny in our hands. Nuclear power has always been one of our assets. It must be valued rather than demonized. Our independence has no price, especially with Russia at a time when the geopolitical context could have adverse consequences. We must therefore rely on ourselves and not on our partners, however reliable they may be. In the event of relief, the other countries will be in the same situation as us and will not be able to be of great help to us. Quite significantly, the Netherlands on which we rely has also become energy importers. Energy demand will increase in the coming years. So we can't go wrong and, without acting in haste, we can't drag either. The question of the energy future of our country and therefore of nuclear power is so crucial that we call for more serenity. The arms passes and the invectives that we have witnessed do not fall within the scope of the debate. We have heard in committee some parliamentarians refer to the Minister as a liar. How do we qualify today those same elected officials who, in order to spread fear and panic the citizens, turn inclusions into cracks? We have also witnessed the bad faith of those who have attacked everything, multiplying the arguments to curb nuclear recovery, because when it comes to non-cracks, it is legal or psychological arguments that have been used. We believe that, at present, citizens are waiting for courageous choices that will engage the country for decades to come. At this stage, nuclear energy alone offers us the necessary energy, environmental and economic guarantees. We therefore call for further investment and are pleased that these EUR 100 million are announced for the apparatus that revolves around Doel 1 and Doel 2. We will therefore have to take care of our plants so that they can live as long as possible, and I would like to point out in conclusion that we call for renewed research to ensure that our country remains, or returns to the forefront of the energy sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u290	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago I quoted the Latin formula ad augusta per angusta during my first speech in committee on the mission I was granted. This formula rightly reminds us of the difficulties that must be overcome before anything can be achieved. If the formula is old, it is more relevant than ever. This path marked by obstacles that leads me before you today to vote for a text that is essential for our citizens and our companies is there to prove it to us. However, I do not want to see in the polemics that have arisen in this case any more than the very legitimate expression of the questions of our fellow citizens which have justly been passed on by national representation. That's why they understand me. Security of supply cannot under any circumstances be at the expense of the safety of production units and of the security of the citizen, for whom there is no reason to compromise. There is also no point in dealing with security of supply itself. It was pointed out by many speakers that our country, which still enjoyed a comfortable situation in terms of electricity supply a few years ago and was therefore an energy exporter, is now unfortunately for its needs, and sometimes at the limit of the break, an energy importer that it greatly needs. This security of supply must be ensured and there are things to be said and questions to be asked about it. What are we talking about? I will not recall what I said earlier in reading the key lines of the government agreement. I would simply say that at the installation of this government in October 2014, this government was confronted with a situation of electricity shortage in the very short term. Therefore, in the context of the security of supply that needed to be provided in the very short term, there was discussion at the government level. It was decided to extend the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear units with the agreement of AFCN and the operator, in accordance with the principle of nuclear safety, which cannot be achieved at the expense of the desire to supply Belgium electrically. The duration of operation of these reactors shall not exceed 2025. Secondly, the Council of Ministers decision of 18 December 2014 which, in eight points, began to implement, alongside this very short-term solution, medium- and long-term solutions. I will take them back because, earlier, I mentioned only three out of eight of them. The first is the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear units that we are talking about in the draft currently under discussion. The second is to ensure that conditions of effective competition in the field of energy production in Belgium are encouraged, and within this framework, to encourage the operator to examine the possibilities of third-party investment in the holding and upgrading of Doel 1 and 2 units. Centralized production in our territory is the safest way, the first that we must implement to ensure our security of supply and our suverai-neté energy. The third measure is to ask Elia to continue its efforts to develop the interconnection capacity in line with the current schedule. I will touch on a few words later in my presentation. The fourth step is to create an energy transition fund. We talked about this earlier in the debate in the first draft that we mentioned earlier. The fifth measure is also in this project, as it involves transposing the provisions of the Energy Efficiency Directive, which falls within the federal competence in the field of demand management. We cannot say too much that energy erasure is a way forward to ensure our electricity supply. The creation of a fund is oriented towards the long term, since it is a question of using money from old means of production, i.e. in particular the production of electricity by nuclear power plants to promote energy production in an innovative way and the storage of electricity. The sixth measure is to ask for recommendations, in particular from CREG, in order to avoid the decommissioning of conventional production units, such as gas and cogeneration, which are not yet at the end of their lives, in particular by ensuring the profitability of these installations. The penultimate measure is to look for ways to increase supply flexibility, inter alia by examining means of investment in new capacities. The last step is to ask the Minister of Energy to continue her work to develop an energy vision and draft an energy pact. I will also touch a word about it. What is our current situation with regard to this general specification for the legislature and particular for today and for the months to come, as I just pin it, in the agreement of 18 December 2014 of the government? To the 750 megawatts of the strategic reserve existing last winter (first measure) I was led, following the probabilistic analysis of Elia, confirmed by the deterministic one of DG Energy, to launch a call for tenders to obtain 2,700 additional megawatts so as to reach an overall power of 3,500 megawatts. The results of this call for tenders are now known and I can tell you that we have finally received a regular offer of only 800 megawatts. Fortunately, this amount has just added another one, since two weeks ago was announced the return to the market of a major Drogenbos power plant with a capacity of 500 megawatts. However, a quick calculation shows us that we are far from the 3,500 megawatts mentioned, since a quick addition shows us that 750 megawatts for last winter's strategic reserve plus 800 conquered in the framework of the strategic reserve for next winter plus 500 of this Drogenbos power plant that is returning to the market are never more than 2,050 megawatts, to which it is worth adding 341 other megawatts from gas plants returning to the market a few weeks ago. These are the power stations of Herdersbrug, Awiers 4, Beers, Thuron, Volta and Buda. In our small household account, we are now at 2,391 megawatts, or 1,100 less than expected. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the hard reality of the figures we have to face for next winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u291	Madam Minister, in committee, in the course of the work, you announced a contribution of between 1,200 and 2,000 megawatts in relation to the search for 2,700 megawatts. Is that to say that, since the commission's work, some candidates have withdrawn from this call for tenders, even though they have submitted their applications? Indeed, today you say that 800 megawatts have been conquered.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u292	The evaluation that was conducted reflected last winter's strategic reserve, on the one hand. At the same time, when I was replying to you, there were all the offers that had been made and that had not yet been analysed by DG Energy. These offers have been analysed since then and those that have been declared admissible today are the number I have given you. It is to be quite precise that I give you the final figure today. Some referred to alternative routes such as the one relating to increased import possibilities, but unfortunately impossible to achieve within the time limits foreseen, and above all so risky in terms of achievement that they were classified as dangerous by the GRD Elia, who refused to implement them and thus incurred his responsibility, while at the same time the operator of the Doel 1 plant explained that they were not in compliance with the operating safety conditions imposed by the AFCN. To those who, in committee, thought it useful to make easy parallels with the technical inspection of vehicles, I would simply advise that they examine the recipes they propose before presenting them as solutions, whereas in fact they are tricks of a pass. How else can we describe the fact that we want to use at all times and under a voltage of 380,000 volts an emergency line that is only available for use at certain times and with a potential power of 150,000 volts? With only the pictures of this emergency line, everyone will understand that it is a troubleshooting tool, usable for very short periods of time and in case of absolute necessity. In addition, it is absolutely essential for the safety of nuclear reactors installed at Doel, from Doel 1 to Doel 4, passing through 2 and 3. How else can we describe simply setting aside the conditions imposed on the operation by the AFCN, which, for the sake of redundancy, provide for the presence of the two emergency lines? However, as the Prime Minister said very well in plenary session, we are open to further leads to the extension of Doel 1 and 2. As you repeat to me in turn, I am obliged to tell you that you manipulate the truth, for I have never said anything else. I never mentioned an alternative track - "in place of" - but an additional track: "in addition to". So, in addition to the extension of Doel 1 and 2, next to the power to be obtained by the development of their capacity, namely 866 MW for the next winter. In this regard, I met with my Dutch counterpart, Mr Kamp, on the sidelines of the Pentalateral Forum held in Luxembourg on 8 June. I was continuing the contacts that had been made on this subject by the Prime Minister in Riga with his Dutch counterpart, Mr Rutte. This meeting followed many other contacts with my counterpart and was the occasion for the signing of a common policy declaration, focusing on a four-year programme to amplify actions relating to market integration, security of supply, flexibility and governance between our two countries. The objectives of these actions are, of course, to make cross-border trade as fluid as possible and, as a result of the increase in supply, to exert downward pressure on prices. This is in line with the energy diplomacy that I have been defending since I took office, in particular through the Belgian Benelux Presidency, which has made interconnections and the ability to exchange and bring markets closer to priority issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u293	Minister, I went back to the excerpt on page 34, paragraph 2, of the report where you explained the situation at the time. You explained that the call for tenders had been launched. I quote: "Tenders for the establishment of this strategic reserve are gradually returning and are currently at a capacity of 1,200 to 2,000 MW in addition to the 750 MW already foreseen in the previous estimates and not taking into account a capacity of 341 MW." This means that there were 750 MW plus 341 MW plus 1,200 to 2,000 MW. Contrary to what you have just said, the 750 MW were not included in the 1,200 to 2,000 MW. We have therefore moved from an analysis of between 1,200 and 2,000 MW to an analysis of more than 800 MW. This is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u294	Mr. Nollet, I understand your emotion. We will certainly have the opportunity to see all this at the next megawatt in committee, since I do not have the figures here. At that time, as the report states very well, the offers were coming in and the analysis of the offers had not yet been made. Indeed, I may have been a little generous because I am a voluntarist. Faced with the electricity shortage that I have just recalled, on the advice of Elia and on the basis of her analyses which we have discussed at length during our work, I was obliged to inflate the strategic reserve and to launch this invitation to tender at the level you know. The tenders have returned, they have been analysed and only regular offers have been accepted. I do not have this document here, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it in committee at a later stage if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u295	I just wanted to point out, minister, that compared to what you said, the 750 MW were not included in that amount at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u296	I agree. I don't make it a disease. This does not change anything since between 1200 and 2000 megawatts, offers have returned and it has been found that regular offers have only been declared on a regular basis for 800 megawatts. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u297	I don't understand that stuff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u298	There's no fowl, you see fowl everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u299	The differences in megawatts are not innocent, they are important in all this discussion. My fellow Members who have intervened on security of supply will undoubtedly support this. If you say that only the regular offers have been accepted, what distinction will be made? What is accepted and what is not accepted?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u300	There are price conditions per megawatt. I don't know the amounts by heart, so I can't answer you right away, draw the conclusions you want. I repeat to you that if you want to deepen this point, these are the very precise figures updated today, sure, which form the megawatts that we are assured of having in strategic reserve for next winter. I am prepared to analyse them thoroughly with you in committee. What more do you want me to say? It's 11:49. I would like to continue my speech because I still have a lot of legal development to do to respond to what you said earlier, and so if you would, if you agree, if you still want to, we will do all the details of this in committee and we will see how, according to what criteria, offers have been declared regular in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u301	They're, I think, normal questions when megawatts suddenly disappear from the mix. Madam Secretary, there is something I just want to ask you to give you the opportunity to do the rest of your speech. For me, a difference of hundreds of megawatts is not insignificant in this discussion. However, it would be interesting if you could tell us in writing tomorrow how much megawatt the strategic reserve ultimately amounts to, which is and will not be contracted. If we receive that in writing before the final vote, we will not have to come back to that tomorrow. How big is the difference, how much megawatts? It's 400 and 1 200 MW.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u302	I do not know when we will have finished our work. There's still the lines. Tomorrow, I have a lot to do. I give you the exact figures, which can be verified. If you want me to give them to you in writing, I'll do it. But a discussion about the conditions for regular offers, the number and identity of the companies that had offered, the analysis made by DG Energy of regular offers or not, I am sorry, but this is typically the order of a debate that we should have had in committee. I'd like to continue, Mr. President. As far as my Dutch colleague is concerned, we have asked our respective energy administrations to step up their cooperation in close consultation with both domestic and external producers in order to explore all possibilities to increase our production capacity as soon as possible. A working group was established as early as March and a first meeting was held in April. This group brings together both energy administrations and network operators in both countries, Elia and Tennet. The next meeting of this working group is scheduled for 30 June. In addition, it should be recalled that, through three major projects, Elia has undertaken to develop as much as possible our interconnection capabilities, which, it should be recalled, make our country, and by far, the most interconnected in Europe. Brabo, Nemo and Alegro are the cornerstones of a vast project that will link us more strongly to the east, north and west to the networks of our neighbours. In 2016, unfortunately not before, as some have claimed, Brabo will provide us with 1000 MW of additional import capacity from the Netherlands. That is, if electricity is there from the Netherlands, we have the capacity to receive it. But as Mr Wollants explained very well in the debate you had with him, this is never certain or guaranteed on an invoice. And it is clear that the Netherlands must at that time have that ability to send through the wires. It is therefore not to be compared with centralized production in our territory. This Brabo project foresees in its subsequent phases a new 380 000-volt two-drain line between Zandvliet, Lillo and Liefkenshoek. This will be Brabo 2, which Brabo 3 will extend in 2019, until the Mercator post. Nemo, in 2020, will provide us with the same opportunity from the UK, thanks to a high-voltage DC connection between the Gezelle and Richborough stations. This project is led by Elia and her English counterpart NGET. Alegro, for its part, which is the abbreviation of Aachen Liège Electric Grid Overlay, the result of a collaboration between Elia and the German GRT Amprion, will connect us to the German network in 2019 also through a high-voltage direct current connection of 1000 MW. However, we must not dream. Indeed, if the Netherlands is an exporter today, according to forecasts, this feature will decrescendo in the future and is expected to end in 2025. As for Germany, it is sometimes exporting, sometimes importing, according to the weather conditions prevailing and affecting a country significantly to the means of production very different from ours. It is therefore now that we must prepare for those years that will see our nuclear units disappear, knowing that this government is part of the 2003 law which provides for the disappearance of our nuclear units and the total release of nuclear power by 2025. Thus, in addition to actions to boost our production stock, we need to develop those relating to demand management, the share of which in the strategic reserve is already more substantial since it represents almost 40% of the new tender. We are also very concerned about energy efficiency, which is already included in the second project we discussed earlier and which is one of the most promising avenues for reducing demand. So the only relamping or relighting, if you prefer, is likely to significantly reduce the share of lighting in overall consumption. Concrete proposals will come in this regard. I now turn to the legal reasoning of the law that has occupied us for some time. In this context, I will not overly support the legal reasoning of the legislation currently being debated, which is the government's choice. Rather, I will focus on the analysis of the last Council of State judgment, which I find extremely interesting. In fact, I thank you for having tabled amendments that allow me to see, in every detail, the reasoning of the Council of State in relation to the whole of the legislation that we are interested in. The Council of State begins its reasoning (for the French version, for our facility, page 15/24) with point 5 and says that Article 4 of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market has introduced an obligation to authorise the establishment of new electricity production facilities. Continuing in his reasoning, he concluded by saying: "Doel 1 and Doel 2 being existing installations, they were not covered by this new authorisation obligation and therefore no production authorisation should be requested." That is where we are beginning to diverge and where the Council of State is looking for solutions to get out of the thick. Since the law of 2003 and the law of 2013, which is the only exception so far to the exit of the nuclear calendar – and we are about to make it a second –, never all the legislation that concerns the generation of electricity and the related authorisations since the liberalisation of the energy market in 1996 and which produced the Electricity Act of 1999, of which I have just mentioned, which provides that for capacity exceeding 25 MW, an authorization to produce electricity, while the power plants existed, has not imposed an authorization to comply with this new law. This is the first part of the measure. The other aspect of the measures is the environmental aspect, which is referred to in the 2003 and 2013 laws which form the basis of our reflection and on which we make the amendments allowing the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. The 1994 Act is the successor to the 1958 Act and the 1963 Act, which protect citizens and workers from ionizing radiation. It is on the basis of these laws and the decree of the Regent of 1948 that the individual operating authorisations were granted, in this case to Doel 1 and Doel 2. The indefinite nature of these authorizations is recalled both by the 2003 law of exit from nuclear power and by the extension law of Tihange 1 of 2013. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u303	I'll keep going. It'll take a while. You will of course have the opportunity to question me after if you will. I didn't interrupt you at all. This requires a certain concentration, especially at this time. So, I'd like to go on. The Council of State states that the Ministerial Order of 18 February 2008 granted a production authorisation to SA Electrabel for the transformation of the existing power generation plant, Unit 1 of the Doel nuclear power plant. It was to allow Doel to produce an additional 40 MW for the Doel 1 unit. The fundamental question was whether, in the case of a capacity exceeding 25 MW, it was necessary to issue such a permit or not. Because this authorization was linked to a power plant that had not been licensed to produce electricity for its entire capacity since its existence and at the time of the 1999 Act. Since the Electricity Act transposed Directive 96 on the liberalisation of the energy market, in that country no nuclear power plant has ever been authorised to produce electricity up to its capacity - the Council of State has found - for the entire production capacity of all nuclear reactors in that country. I now resume my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u304	Mr Calvo, the Minister has expressly asked for her reasoning to be completed. You will then be given the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u305	Mr President, I must go to the end of my reasoning. You will see that the Council of State and the legislator are not so far from each other. Having solved the problem of the lack of permission to produce electricity for nuclear power plants in that country, in accordance with the 1999 law, by extending this ministerial decree for the Council of State and by the figure of the switch, as I have already explained many times. As with Tihange 1, the extension law of Doel 1 and 2 has the virtue of constituting a switch which, at some point, allows the power plant to generate electricity beyond the age of forty, which is the central point of reflection of the decision of the Council of State and of all this legislation since 2003. I'm resuming the 2003 law...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u306	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u307	Mr President, no, I want to continue my reasoning. I have the floor. Articles 3 and 4 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the phase-out of nuclear energy states: "No new nuclear power plant intended for industrial electricity generation from fission of nuclear fuels may be created or put into operation. For all existing power plants, nuclear power plants intended for industrial electricity generation from fission of nuclear fuel are deactivated 40 years after the date of their entry into industrial service and can no longer produce electricity from that moment. All individual authorizations for operation and production from fission, issued for a period without limitation of duration by the King, under the 1958 and 1963 law and the 1994 and 2001 environmental laws (i.e. the main environmental axes which form the basis for the construction of our nuclear power plants; so we never talk about the electricity law, but only about this environmental basis) end forty years after the date of industrial commissioning of the production plant concerned." This means that, while the 1999 law regulates permissions to produce electricity, there is no mention in the 2003 law on the exit of nuclear power plants of what is the basis for the existence of our nuclear power plants in terms of permission to produce electricity. It is simply said that this permission will be stopped at the age of 40, but the entire legal regime of our plants is an environmental regime that goes back, as I said, to the decree of the regent. In doing so, when the 2013 law – the Council of State continues its reasoning on page 1724 – comes into play, the law of 18 December 2013 on the extension of Tihange 1 has adapted the exit schedule in order to allow, for security of supply reasons, the continued operation of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant for another ten years, without however affecting the ultimate purpose of the law of 31 January 2003, namely the deactivation, closure and dismantling of the plants. All the reasoning revolves around this aspect. In fact, Greenpeace has the same reasoning. What prompted Greenpeace to bring an action before the Brussels Court of First Instance sitting in interim proceedings? Moreover, I do not know why they chose the reference and why they asked for compliance with the international conventions of Aarhus and Espoo which have no direct effect in Belgian law, as the Council of State says, and therefore do not allow Belgian litigants to apply for subjective rights before a Belgian court on the basis of these international conventions. They chose the formula of the interim order and they introduced their action not the day after the 2013 law was passed, when they should have reacted immediately, as we are preparing in 2013 to extend a plant which was 38 years old at the time and which one day will be 40 years old, and therefore, in the spirit of Greenpeace, will no longer be able to live because it has finished its life and must stop. This is the logic of 40 years: at 40 years of age, life is over for power plants. But they do so precisely, and that is extremely logical, the year of the 40th anniversary of Tihange 1, that is to say in 2015, since this plant reaches 40 years of age on October 1, 2015. They call for compliance with the Aarhus and Espoo international conventions with a view to its 40-year-old power plant and for an impact study to be carried out for the plant, which will reach its 40-year-old age, as well as public consultation, possibly cross-border, as the scope for action in the event of a problem is quite wide. The Court of First Instance of Brussels sitting in interim proceedings dismisses Greenpeace and makes a reasoning – always the same reasoning since we are all confronted with the same texts – where it finds that there are two strands of measures in our Belgian law. There is the "power loss" component that has not been required for our nuclear power plants and therefore there is a legal vacuum, or a legal vacuum according to the Council of State which is trying to draw from a ministerial decree of 2008 to increase the capacity of Doel 1 that there are actually authorisations that are given according to the law 'electricity' to nuclear power plants in this country. But in reality, there are very few. Not all plants are affected by the authorisations in question. So they're trying to infer that there's a link between the legislative part of the electricity license and the environmental part. And we say that, in reality, when permission was granted for another 40 megawatts, it was because there was an increase in power. But we never cared about the full power of these plants! From the moment Doel 1 reaches the famous age of 40, on 15 February 2015, it meets the conditions, according to some, for an impact study and a public consultation, possibly cross-border. It's their logic and they're developing it. The Council of State does the same throughout its judgment. Indeed, in the paragraphs preceding the point I have just mentioned, the Council of State says: "By adopting the law of 18 December 2013, the legislator wanted to prevent the provisions of the law of 31 January 2003 on the exit of nuclear power plants from being interpreted as meaning that, when the power plants are deactivated, the conditions of authorisation relating to technical exploitation or nuclear safety also become obsolete". Therefore, the Council of State which, in its first and second opinions, considered that all the authorizations, including environmental authorizations, relating to the nuclear power plants we are talking about, were obsolete, begins to say that perhaps environmental authorizations are no longer as obsolete and are not at all obsolete, since they exist, they continue to exist and they have been granted on an indefinite basis, which is perfectly logical, since they are written in length and in broad terms in the law of January 31, 2003.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u308	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u309	Mr President, if I may, I would like to continue my reasoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u310	You'll have plenty of opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u311	There is therefore a weighing of the interests of the Council of State which, in subpaginal note, which you see appearing on pages 17, 18 et seq., will seek in the preparatory work of the 2003 and 2013 laws what is the intention of the legislator. What was the legislator's intention with regard to nuclear power plants in that country? The Council of State's deduction is to say that, when they reach the age of 40, their lives are over and, if their lives are over and they are to be extended – that is the logic of the Council of State – we need a new authorization. This is not the logic of the Belgian legislator, since he extended Tihange 1. He knew that Tihange 1, through this extension, would pass the course of his 40th birthday. Tihange 1 was obviously going to be in this situation at the age of 40, which was highlighted by Greenpeace in the case before the Brussels court of first instance, and was therefore going to suffer a possible criticism in this respect. The fact that Doel 1 arrived at the age of 40 on February 15, 2015 and the fact that Doel 2 will reach 40 on December 1, 2015 does not change anything strictly to this logic. Indeed, the Council of State says this and it is quite extraordinary: "Our opinion had observed, on page 19/24, in a given opinion of five working days, that it had not been possible to verify whether and to what extent comparable legal objections could also be raised against an outright extension of a deactivation date which is still in the future." This deactivation date, which is still in the future, is Doel 2, on December 1, 2015. Indeed, the Council of State continues its logic and goes to the end. It is always this 40-year-old logic that returns and is the focal point of the Council of State's reflection. I now come to point 10(2) and to sub-paginal note 16 of the Council of State. Taking the analysis of the law of 31 January 2003, the Council of State says: "With a view to ensuring security of supply, Doel 1 can again produce electricity from the entry into force of the amending law but only until 15 February 2025, which is the new date on which Doel 1 must be deactivated." Therefore, the Council of State sets out in full letter, expressly, the legal logic of our law. As a subpaginal note, he adds: "Since the production authorization for Doel 1 has expired, it is therefore necessary to request and obtain a new individual authorization on the basis of the Act of 29 April 1999 and the Royal Decree of 11 October 2000. However, it follows from Article 4(1) of the Act of 29 April 1999 that installations intended for the industrial production of electricity from the fission of nuclear fuels for which the date of deactivation has been reached may no longer be authorised." The Council of State therefore says this. Doel 1 has arrived at forty years, it would be in my logic - since I consider that it is the Electricity Law that is the basis for a new individual authorization - that Doel 1 should have a new individual authorization. However, Article 4 of the Act of 29 April 1999 states that power plants which have arrived on their deactivation date may no longer be authorised. Thus, according to the Council of State, in the absence of any adjustment to the date fixed in the Act of 31 January 2003, such authorization cannot be granted. I want to think about it, but I'm surprised. The Conseil d'Etat takes an intellectual path which is to say that it considers that 40 years is the age at which, in order to pursue in the concrete case of Doel 1, an individual authorization is required on the basis of the Electricity Act; but unfortunately, article 4 of the 1999 Act prevents me from doing so and fails to amend the Act of 31 January 2003, such an authorization cannot be granted. Here, I wonder what the exact logic of the Council of State is with regard to this legislative package. I'm continuing my reasoning. We also have point 11 § 2 which says this: concerning Doel 2, the Council of State says that it does not know whether there are objections of the same style to be formulated with regard to the date of deactivation which will come in a few months, and therefore, it would like to know how to resolve this difficulty. The Council of State closes its reasoning with a completely extraordinary sibyllin sentence which does not solve anything at all: "The plants concerned (Doel 1 and 2) are built to produce electricity and they do so on an industrial scale and once this activity disappears, on the ground that it is prohibited by law at a given date, they actually no longer have a function." I have always said, the government has always said, and repeats, and it is written at length and in large in the law of 2013, and it was Mr Deleuze who had already mentioned this in the work of the law of 2003, that the ban on electricity generation, the inability to produce electricity from now on, must be understood in the purely economic sense, that is, as I have already had the opportunity to explain here in plenary, the possibility to inject into the electricity network and to withdraw revenue from the injection of electricity into the network. This means, therefore, that if electricity could be stored, Electrabel, at Doel 1 level, could already put that electricity in batteries, for example, and send these batteries elsewhere to sell them, because in so doing, the electricity would not have been injected into the grid and Electrabel would have responded to the ban on injecting electricity into the grid and therefore to the purely economic ban on allowing electricity to be produced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u312	Do you know that all this is recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u313	I know that very well. I'm going on. As far as points 15 and 16 are concerned... I know that you don't like it all, but what do you want me to say? I have to read what's written. You kept us for hours with your legal reasoning, I have the right to hold you for as long with legal reasoning. With regard to points 15 and 16 on pages 22 and 24, your amendment is intended to include in draft Article 4 § 1 of the law of 31 January 2013 a sentence providing that Doel 1 must be the subject of a new operating authorisation. Point 16, according to the Council of State, the general examination showed that the operating authorisation for Doel 1 had not fully expired. So the Council of State finally realized that the operation for Doel 1 has not completely expired. This is only the case for the provisions on "licensing of industrial electricity production from the fission of nuclear fuel which may be included in it". This means that permission to produce electricity, says the Council of State, would eventually be included in the permissions that have not been declared obsolete, which are environmental permissions. As such, there is no need to make the new application for operating authorisation for Doel 1 mandatory. That is what the Council of State says in all its letters. Thus, the Council of State as its decision was made becomes more and more understanding of the government's thesis and is gradually moving towards it. I now turn to pages 23 and 24 on the Aarhus and Espoo conventions. The Council of State states that it is not its responsibility to validate the waiver of the obligation under international law contained in those conventions. As previously stated, the obligations for consultation and environmental impact assessment arising from the Espoo and Aarhus conventions also apply, in any event, to a simple extension of the life of the Doel 2 nuclear power plant for which the legislator itself would provide that no operating or production authorisation is required. That's great! Therefore, the Council of State says that, even if the legislator said that no authorisation for exploitation or production is required for Doel 2 and if the legislator wants to extend this plant beyond the age of forty, knowing that it is the magical age, we must apply the Espoo and Aarhus conventions. This is the thesis of the Council of State. What else does the Council of State say? I come to the end of the latter's reasoning. It's not my fault, if this reasoning takes 24 pages. The Council of State said that, in its view, the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions must be respected in any case, and it left all doors open. Thus, depending on the time, a new authorisation is required for Doel 1 whose electricity licence expired on 15 February 20015, but he also says that it may also require a new authorisation for Doel 2 who will be 40 years old on 1 December 2015, without deciding on the subject. If the legislator intends to extend these plants, whether or not authorisation is required, the Aarhus and Espoo conventions must therefore be complied with. This is the quintessence of the thesis of the Council of State since the conclusion of its judgment on retroactivity. I read at the end – this is extraordinary – in Amendment No 20 you tabled: "Amendment No 20 is intended to include in the Act of 31 January 2003 an Article 3/1 which provides that the AFCN must lay down the conditions relating to safety and security and cannot give its consent to the extension of the duration of the operation of Doel 1 until after the closure of an environmental impact assessment procedure allowing the cross-border participation of the public." We're talking about AFCN here. He went on to say: "Like Amendment No 16, this amendment also aims to ensure that Doel 1 can only be reactivated after an environmental impact assessment procedure has been completed allowing for cross-border public participation. Contrary to Amendment No 16, which seeks to subject the extension of the life of the Doel 1 nuclear power plant to the request for a new authorisation, this amendment seems to want to intervene at a later stage in the procedure," said the Council of State. At the end, the Council of State says in a very open manner, and this is, I think, the most interesting conclusion for us: "It is essential that compliance with the obligations of international law and European law be guaranteed, with the arrangements defined in this respect being of secondary interest." He then talks about the litigants. I do not see why the Council of State is talking about litigants, since it says above that the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions have no direct effect in Belgian law and that it believes that it can still monitor the application of these Conventions, whether or not they have a direct effect, while saying that they do not. Care must be taken to ensure that litigants and the regulator have a clear understanding of the procedure to be followed and how it relates to other licensing obligations. The amendment should be redrafted accordingly. [[That is to say that the Council of State is prepared to accept that compliance with the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions takes place where it is provided for in our Belgian law, and I have told you dozens of times, that is, when the AFCN, which follows the reasoning of the General Regulations for the Protection against Ionizing Rays (GRPRI), and which in Article 12 distinguishes between work of great importance, of medium importance or of small importance, which, when it comes to work of great importance, does not have the possibility of choosing whether or not to carry out an impact study and public consultation, and must do so (application of international conventions), which, when it comes to work of medium importance, as was the case for Tihange 1, has the possibility of choosing and here will have the possibility of choosing whether or not to carry out an impact study and public consultation.]] I will conclude by referring to the views of the Council of State on the extension of Tihange 1. I consulted them and checked if the same people had given the opinions. Remember, in the government's plans for security of supply, it was about extending together Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2. The previous government wanted to show that really, by extending only Tihange 1, and not Doel 1 and Doel 2, there would be enough electricity with other complementary measures, and not alternatives, with the call for tenders for gas power plants for example, to ensure security of supply as part of its policy. It was also a way of showing that one was in the exceptional logic of an extension, in the desire to continue the exit of nuclear power plants and to stop them at the age of 40. So I looked at who had given these opinions from the Council of State. They are the same people: Mr Jo Baert, Mr Tim Corthaut and another person whose name I will find, who have given in two times four pages very brief opinions on the extension of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant, which in 2015, like Doel 1 and Doel 2, reaches the age of 40. In these extremely succinct opinions of the Council of State, it is simply said that the preliminary draft law submitted for opinion aims to make two amendments to the law of 31 January 2003 on the progressive exit of nuclear power. On the one hand, the timetable for deactivation of existing nuclear power plants is redrafted so that specific deadlines are set for each nuclear power plant rather than applying the rule used to date of deactivation 40 years after the start of industrial operation. This legislative intervention is necessary to grant, by way of derogation from the existing principle of 40 years for the Tihange 1 plant, an extension of the operation until 1 October 2025. On the other hand, there was a delegation to the King which allowed other necessary scheduling measures to be taken in order to provide for the extension of other power stations if there were problems of security of supply. The previous government said this: we repeal Article 9, which therefore removes the delegation to the King, allowing the necessary measures to be taken in case of a threat to the security of supply of electricity. And the Council of State to pursue unitedly: "Since the legislator is empowered, if necessary, to provide for measures to adjust the timetable to deal with security of supply", which we are doing, "there is no legal objection to the modification of this project". There is no legal objection to the extension of Tihange 1. We are not told that there is a problem with a 40-year-old pick-up date. We're not told we'll need a new authorization. We're not talking about the Aarhus and Espoo conventions. We're not talking about anything. We are told that there is no legal objection to the proposed amendment, although the opinion of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) is no longer required to take such measures. Evacuation of the CREG! There is no reason to believe that under these conditions no necessary measures could be taken within a relatively short period of time. The law can quickly reshape the nuclear exit schedule, without any objection and without undermining the international obligations contained in the Aarhus and Espoo conventions. This is the synoptic and historical framework of the way in which the Council of State, the same people, analyse the whole of the legislation in this field. Indeed, we have a reconciliation of the analytical sensitivities between the government's logic of extending Doel 1 and Doel 2 and the logic of the Council of State. But the Council of State is absolutely unclear as to whether or not it requires a new authorisation for Doel 1 and perhaps later a new one for Doel 2, and on which law this authorization should be based. He ends up saying: "Today I decide, I want international conventions to be applied, and no matter how you do it. If you do this through the AFCN and RGPRI, it's as good, as long as you respect these conventions." That is the summary of the opinion of the Council of State today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u314	Minister, I'm impressed. I don't know whether to ask the Deputy Prime Minister to sum up and tell us if he understood, what he understood, and whether the whole government supports the minister's legal demonstration. I finally held that the Council of State is to the law what a military band is to music... Let me tell you that we will have to read your argument very carefully and thoroughly. I don't know if you've had to pay for legal advice yet to produce this argument. In any case, you deduce from the reading of the opinion of the Council of State things that it has never said. You're mixing...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u315	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u316	Wait, don't tell me it's the Council of State that mixes! You're not going to do his trial any more than you need. I would like to hear that a different legal opinion can be defended, and I am cautious in this regard. But from that point of view, you have convinced us about the argument of the Council of State, there is room for manoeuvre! I am prepared to discuss the interpretation of certain provisions of the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions as to whether the extension of a nuclear power plant falls within their application criteria. This will probably be the debate before the Constitutional Court. I would like to say that there is no 100 per cent legal certainty on this issue. That is why the Council of State has a completely incoherent reasoning, no! It gives an interpretation of the international conventions which it supports, I recalled earlier, of an opinion given by a specialised committee of the European Union, which is responsible for interpreting the conventions. So, it's not based on criteria that he would have invented on his own. That you question, in certain respects, the opinion of the Council of State, either, but not to the point of distorting it and making it appear to be incoherent at all points and in all things. I said in the rostrum just now exactly what there is a matter for legal debate. As we know, there is no certainty. If you read the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the two conventions, you will see that it is more of a broad interpretation. You defend a restrictive interpretation with your metaphorical image that the law would only be a switch that would temporarily stop an activity and that, in short, it can be relighted. No, the legislator's intention was clearly, even with the 2013 amendment, to put an end to the activity and not to suspend it. Your metaphorical image has no legal significance. It's nice to hear because you're trying to convince by a simple image, and it's perhaps the only thing we can understand about your demonstration. Basically, the legal analysis requires a little more respect for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u317	I greatly appreciate the detailed way in which Mr.Maingain usually analyses the texts. Indeed, we agree on the point of discussion which is likely to be referred to the Constitutional Court and which concerns the application of international conventions, and to what extent. Because when it comes to authorizing the production of electricity, things are all but clear. And as you know, in the extension law of Tihange 1, a paragraph 2 was expressly added to article 4, which states that environmental permits are maintained as they were originally, i.e. indefinitely, as long as the law of 15 April 1994 and its implementing orders are not amended, whereas only the permission to produce electricity, which must be considered in the purely economic sense, is part of the mechanics established by the law of 2003, against which, by exception, Tihange 1 is extended under the law of 2013. We therefore go through the deadline organized by the 2003 law of termination of electricity generation, to say that we will extend Tihange 1. It is considered that this aspect is quite exceptional by saying that we will keep the same regime for all the other plants. Here we do exactly the same thing, we repeat exactly the same legal reasoning. In 2013, we didn't get to the end of the logic, we didn't get to join the two major legal regimes that apply, and to what extent (it will have to be debated in the courts) at our nuclear power plants. Indeed, as the Council of State now notes, no authorization to produce electricity was imposed on our power plants by the 1999 law, since at the time these plants were already constituted, already existed, had individual environmental permits that we mentioned and their production capacity was never regulated by incorporating them into the 1999 law to require them to have this authorization to produce electricity. We could have done it, but we didn't, and we never changed that diet. In my view, this is the second important element that will one day have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u318	Mr President, I have at least understood one thing today. I understand why Mr. Bens was talking about legal acrobatics. Mrs Marghem gave us a nice demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u319	Mr. Bens was talking about improvisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u320	In a much more serious way. Madam Minister, at the beginning of your reasoning, you say that the 2008 Order granting authorization to produce an additional 40 megawatts was not necessary and that, moreover, it was the only exception in this regard. Did I hear you correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u321	Look, don't sneeze on details yet. Try to see the bottom of the problem! There have been other authorizations. I know that; we have said so in committee. I don't know them by heart. This is not the only one, but it is the only one mentioned in the decision of the Council of State. Anyway, it's about a pair of megawatts. This is not the entire capacity of nuclear power plants. You know that! These are one-off permissions in 2004, I think, and in 2008 and perhaps another later (there are two or three). But in this case, the Council of State only takes that one and I am in the opinion of the Council of State to speak to you. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u322	What I am trying to explain to you is that since the law of 29 April 1999, the legal situation has changed. Any further increase, extension or resurrection of capacity requires an authorization. I'll explain. Initially, with the 1958 law, authorization was indefinite. This is the starting point in 1958. But the 1994 Act repealed the 1958 Act. In 1999, a licensing obligation was introduced. Everything that has happened since 1999 has required the adoption of an authorization for the production of electricity. I'm going to quote you the arrests in this case. On 8 January 2002, concerning Tihange 2; on 13 November 2007, concerning Tihange 3; on 1 March 2004, concerning Doel 2; on 17 August 2007, concerning Doel 4; and on 18 February 2008, concerning Doel 1, this is the latest authorisation. Since section 4 of the 1999 Act, as soon as there has been a change in the situation, a new authorization has been requested. Whatever the government, whatever the competent minister, it has always applied for authorization in this regard. And it was granted with the necessary steps, CREG etc. How can you say today – Mr Jambon, I assume that this is not an individual position, even if it is a ministerial order, that it is the position of the government before us – that what was done in 2002 is swept away, as was done in 2004, 2007 and 2008; that you are creating a new right that no longer has to be asked for authorisation when it has been done, five times, by different ministers, by different governments and that this is recalled by the Council of State. I don't understand! You say that the 1958 Act must be taken into account, but it was repealed by section 66 of the 1994 Act. In 1999, the Government and Parliament introduced a new procedure. Everything that has been done since then must be done in accordance with the new procedure. I recall that this has been the case five times. But today, you decide to change the case law and not to proceed in this way. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u323	Mr Nollet, I can understand that we do not agree. That's been the case from the beginning. So I'm not offended. However, the law is not hopeless. It's not an exact science either. It is a reflection which is in motion and which is based on the analysis of the texts. If you look at section 4 of the Act of 29 April 1999, you will find that this section begins with the following sentence: "With the exception of installations for the industrial production of electricity from the fission of nuclear fuels which can no longer be authorised in accordance with sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive exit of nuclear energy, the establishment of new electricity generation plants, the revision, renewal, waiver, transfer and any other amendment of an individual authorization issued on the basis of this Act shall be subject to the prior granting of an individual authorization issued by the Minister". Let me finish the explanation of this article. Why, then, if I listen to what you are telling me, is there no renewal for plants that reach the age of forty that should be allowed under this law? Nuclear power plants produce much more MW than the ministerial decrees you have just mentioned to me, which only alter the power produced by nuclear power plants. In our law, there has never been any imposition, nor is there any specific authorization for our nuclear power plants that would be deduced from this law for the totality of the capacity they produce. You can turn the problem back in every direction. There is no such thing. Moreover, the Act of 29 April 1999 expressly states this. She says, "With the exception of nuclear power plants that can no longer, etc." This shows that we are in a completely exceptional regime where the legislator has not been to the end of logic. It is for this reason that the Council of State, in its initial opinions, says that a system of authorizations should be quite specific. Remember, that's what he said in his first opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u324	Mr President, I welcome it all the more since I made it clear at the beginning of the proceedings that I am not a lawyer. Nevertheless, there are some prominent people here in the assembly, including one who is behind me and who is particularly attentive to our debates. Minister, you are saying that there is no need to seek an authorization under the 1999 Act. For nuclear power generation, a new licence should not be sought since it was previously granted. That is not what Article 4 says. This article says that "no longer" can be given authorisation for the production of nuclear electricity. It's not the same thing that "we don't have to anymore." I am reading with you this Article 4: "With the exception of installations for the industrial production of electricity from fission of nuclear fuel which can no longer be authorised". For nuclear power, we can no longer give permission. Why? Because the majority of the time decided to get out of nuclear power. So we can't give permission anymore. That is what the law says, and you do not change it. You are therefore in the legal impasse from this article alone anyway. You can't give permission anymore. You say here: "It shouldn't be, the 2008 order wasn't necessary, we didn't have to". But you can no longer do so since Article 4, § 1, which is later. This is the same reasoning with regard to the Aarhus Convention and the Espoo Convention. You say that in 2013 the Council of State did not use this in its opinion. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u325	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u326	No, it's not weird. He can miss things, as was the case in his first opinion. You know why? You're asking for an emergency. Obviously, he doesn't have time to analyze everything in five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u327	That's amazing! As a matter of urgency, he is capable of remembering...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u328	You didn't let me cut you off, but I'll let you talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u329	I am pleased to cut you off with your permission, Mr. Nollet. I'm just saying that the Council of State issued two opinions during the review of the 2013 Act and that it had plenty of time to review them, since it gave them back in 30 days. I have the greatest respect for all those who are trying to think about a situation and find solutions. But in twice thirty days, he leaves us two times four pages without ever talking about the Aarhus and Espoo conventions. Contrary to what you claim, in five days, he's coming out 40 pages telling us about the Aarhus and Espoo conventions. It's amazing! In any case, this law will obviously be attacked as is the Tihange 1 law for the same reasons as we explained earlier, each in our own way and it will be discussed before the ad hoc courts whether or not to apply these international texts. It's the bottom of the case. We do not have to worry about this, because of course we are not going to get out of the contradiction with an agreement. We continue to disagree on how things should be arranged intellectually and this is not a problem. Law is not an exact science. It's not a natural science either. It is an intellectual construction based on a set of rules. Everyone has the opportunity – and all the better in this assembly – to do their own analysis. The government has done its analysis that it supports, defends and bases the law that is currently before you. Please do not mix concerns about legal security with concerns about nuclear safety. You cannot make a slide, which you do too often, with these two themes that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. The absolute legal certainty is finally something quite conceptual. It is clear that judicial discussions will take place; we know that. So we defend legal certainty to the maximum of our possibilities, and you can see that some opinions are irreconcilable. That said, it is not the legal security or insecurity that you lend to this text that will provide the Doel 1 and Doel 2 technical facilities with the nuclear safety they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u330	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u331	Yes, I do! You operate a systematic shift between these notions! And you bring into the minds of the public fears that mix the legal aspects of a text, which you obviously want to cut into pieces and which for you constitutes a sum of inconsistencies, with nuclear safety, for which my colleague here is responsible through AFCN. In any case, this nuclear safety is the real substance of the matter with security of supply. That is what we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u332	Minister, everyone can have their point of view, it's obvious. We're in the social sciences, it's very happy. However, I will not let you say that the Council of State has given you reason when it indicates that you are wrong. You have no right to speak on his behalf!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u333	Mr Nollet, I have no right to say what I think, but you do? It's unbelievable! So you're more equal than I am?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u334	Eat my apologies. So I repeat my reasoning. If the Council of State, in 2013, does not develop the Aarhus and Espoo dimensions to this extent, but it does so in 2015, it is also because, in the meantime, there has been a decision you know, linked to a Ukrainian case. This was finally decided in 2014. As the Council of State delivered its opinion in 2013, it was not aware of what had been decided on the application of the Espoo Convention and which had been recalled at the hearings by Mrs Anouk Janssens. This is a new development and the Council of State takes into account the possible evolution of this case law and the applications that have been linked to this evolution in case law. This is one of the reasons why the Council of State is more specific in its subsequent opinions. Point. The rest is from 2013. Today, the Council of State is more precise. It is not in contradiction and it does not say that there is any contradiction with its three recent opinions. We can't follow you on this one. Mr President, I will wait until the minister's reasoning is over, but on this legal aspect, I wanted to intervene immediately, before she can develop all her reasoning in order to be able to counter the elements relating to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u335	Mr President, we still have to give ourselves the trouble of having a little intellectual honesty about what the Council of State itself says. First, he explained why in 2013, he did not refer to international conventions in his opinion at the time. He simply states that the time limit did not allow him to necessarily raise all the legal objections he might have raised with respect to a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u336	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u337	See the bottom of page 11, item 23, footnote. It states very clearly: "The Council of State is aware that this comment on the applicability of the obligations of consultation and environmental impact assessment imposed by international law with respect to the extension of the life of certain nuclear power plants could in principle have already been made in its opinion 57093.3 on the initial draft law. This may be explained by the fact that the examination by the Legislation Section is an open examination in which it cannot be guaranteed that the opinion addresses all the possible objections that a given text may raise and that, in the course of further requests for opinions on adaptations to that text, other views cannot be expressed, in particular when such initial opinion is requested within a very short time." He adds: "However, this is also the case for the two opinions which the Council of State gave at the time on the preliminary draft, which became the law of 18 December 2013 (...)" and so on. So he himself clearly says why it came under his nose – excuse this somewhat trivial expression – in 2013. The deadline did not allow him to raise all legal objections. We can regret it. It could be said that this might relate to the scope of the opinions of the Council of State but, in this case, it has taken the trouble to go further. Why? Because he knows a case law has developed. By the way, this case law has been used in a completely different case. Read the excellent decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 30 July 2014 in the appeal against the Wathelet plan. This is a direct application of the Arrhus Convention. One of the arguments used to rescind the Wathelet Plan's orders is the Aarhus Convention. Direct effect, absence of. It's worth it. So the Council of State, which is still familiar with the case law, knows that today a jurisprudence begins to develop around these international obligations, which it itself says can be discussed infinitely whether there are direct effects or not – there are direct effects because these provisions of an international convention have been invoked directly by the litigants before the courts and the courts have allowed their direct applicability. And the Council of State says that in 2013, it missed out because the deadline did not allow it to pay attention to it and, above all, let us take a good account, because at the time, these international conventions were not applied as is the case today through case law. Therefore, do not proceed with the intention of a contradiction of the Council of State. No. The Council of State itself is justified and explained. Secondly, the debate on authorisations. Recognize that the starting point of your reasoning was to say that you distinguish between operating authorization and production authorization. The latter is not subject to international obligations. It was the starting point of your reasoning, it was even the starting point of the Janson note. According to the Council of State, no matter whether you make the distinction or not, and it can be made, the law of 2013 has accentuated the distinction, but despite this distinction, even the authorization of production is subject to the obligations arising from international conventions. Therefore, it is not because it is not an environmental administrative police authorization that it is subject or not to the Aarhus and Espoo conventions; it is because the nature of what the legislator proposes to do, falls within the legal framework of the application of these two conventions. The reasoning of the Council of State is clear. As I said earlier, there will be a debate in the courts about what is to be understood by certain terms of the two international conventions. After that, let me still think that the reasoning of the Council of State has an appearance of greater coherence than yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u338	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Maingain that perhaps he should have been more involved in our debates because perhaps it would have avoided lengthy, at least inconsistent, legal demonstrations. Perhaps another reading would have been possible. Perhaps the minister would have been more convinced by your demonstration because, apparently, the demonstra-tions of the lawyers are not enough and I confess that your demonstration was clear and perhaps would have made more sense to the minister. I would also like to address the minister. You spoke of Amendment No 20, saying that the amendment should be redrafted accordingly, but you forget to read the small footnote 25. Why should the amendment be redrafted? Because precisely, if you give AFCN the power to decide whether or not to conduct an environmental impact study or a public inquiry, you remove its prerogatives from the legislative authority. Throughout our debate, and this is also reflected in the report that I have tried to draft objectively, we have confused legal security, which has been much more discussed with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior - who has had much clearer, direct and transparent answers - and security of supply. We did not mix these three levels. Legal certainty has been required for many years because it can also be said that all governments have had difficulties with legal certainty in the electricity sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u339	But you cannot say that legal certainty is not undermined by your project. The demonstration has just been carried out. All opinions agree and are murderous, except in fact your demonstration, which has at least been dismantled here in plenary session. Please return to an objective reading of our debates. Let us not confuse legal security with safety. Moreover, we are talking about safety with the Minister of the Interior, who has not yet responded to all of our interventions. You talked about security of supply at the beginning of your intervention and we did not react to that practice. On the other hand, you said at the beginning of your speech that Doel 1 and Doel 2 were about security of supply in the very short term. We did the demonstration for 60 hours that, of course, Doel 1 and 2 will not offer security of supply in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u340	Madam Minister, for half an hour you were bluffing. When we push the analysis further, no one is fooled. One element has drawn my attention: you have been a long time in rereading a number of paragraphs of the opinion of the Council of State. When paragraphs do not fix you - you can read the text of your speech again - you skip them. You don't use them as the Council of State tells you. So it's a legal pirouette in your oratory art. You have tried, in this presentation, to unravel the opinion of the Council of State in order to make it an opinion which, in your opinion, is delusional. The legal vision of the Council of State is based on legal texts. When you observe Amendment No 16 proposed to you, it did allow you to respect the opinion of the Council of State and you do not want to deal with it. To take your text back, your obstinacy to push on the switch to turn off the light prevents you from correctly reading this advice from the Council of State. Secondly, with regard to the Espoo Conventions and the Habitat and EIA Directives, these are international texts. You have to respect them. You represent the Belgian State in this debate. The Belgian State has ratified these texts. They are therefore binding on us. It is therefore the whole problem of legal certainty that has been raised throughout these debates, both in committee and in plenary. Read what is written and not what you want to read. It's quite different. You misinterpret the texts. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u341	Mr President, we have a very rich debate. Finally, on a small point, but very important, since this is the central point which was analysed in committee. In this respect, I refer to my remarks made in committee. Mr. Maingain cited a key decision regarding Mr. Wathelet's flight plan. We have studied the criterion of whether or not international conventions should be applied with our colleagues in committee. Mr Maingain, of course I am not blaming you for not coming. You have more to do than be present on all commissions. It would have been interesting, however, for you to be here because we have developed the criterion of politics. When a law drafts a policy and this law is not a concrete project, as is the case in this case, according to the government (since the draft under discussion today proposes a security of supply policy and various measures for this security of supply), there is no application of international conventions and there is no public consultation or environmental impact assessment. That was the reasoning that had been developed. I resume and conclude my speech so that I can give the floor to Mr Jambon, who is waiting very patiently for me to finish. It is not because we believe that this legislation is a policy that should not be subject to public consultation or environmental impact assessment that the safety and security of the population will not be fully guaranteed. We all agree. Mrs. Lalieux made that clear. Once again, I affirm that the Doel 1 and 2 power plants will not be extended if the AFCN, which is the nuclear safety watchdog, declares that it is impossible for them to resume their activities and therefore does not give its green light. The extension of Doel 1 and 2, and I repeat again, is by no means an end in itself. There is absolutely nothing ideological about this. It wants to be pragmatic in order to guarantee the security of supply of our country. In addition, the law of exit from nuclear power for 2025 is fully respected since this extension extends until that date. Through its decision of 18 December 2014, embodied in this bill, the government intends to take medium- and long-term measures that express its willingness to lay alongside this extension the foundations of a genuine energy transition policy for our country, also aimed at building an attractive and productive market for investors. The emphasis is on energy efficiency and demand management, as well as on preparing for the future through the creation of a fund to finance research and development in production and storage. This last aspect is crucial to balance the intermittent nature of renewable energies. Indeed, it has not escaped anyone that both the solar, by the succession of days, nights and clouds, and the wind turbine subjected to the whims of the wind, present an irregular production profile that creates an increased need for flexibility tools in the transport and distribution networks. The development of these means of storage, of which Coo 1, Coo 2 and Plate Taille are perfect examples, is therefore the indispensable support for renewable energies whose sustainability and coherence they guarantee. As I said, we will not be able to secure our country's supply security in the medium and long term without an ambitious energy vision. I appeal to the Regions to seize this unique opportunity that we have to work together to defend the interests of our citizens and businesses through measures that make our energy more sustainable and affordable. In this I refer to the energy vision that the federal government has developed and is sharing with the Regions, which will be set out in concrete actions through the inter-federal energy pact. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the often binding doctrinal positions that I see being expressed here and there in one or the other of our speeches, we have no shortage of subjects on which we should debate so as to agree on major projects, essential to the development of our country and guaranteeing its security of supply. Thus, by agreeing on the essentials, we will each be faithful to the mandates we have received from the voters.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u342	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that was the first half of the government's speech. Now comes the second half of the government's speech, but I can tell you that it will be a little shorter. I will confine myself to matters that have been noted and which have perhaps already been dealt with in committee, but which it is important that they be repeated for a moment or have not yet been dealt with. It has been said several times here, but I would like to reiterate that the government's position on security is very clear. With the approval of the draft law before us tomorrow, Phase 1 of the re-launch of Objective 1 and Objective 2 has been launched. Phase 2 will be the analysis of the FANC and its advice on the restart and the investments that need to be made before we can restart. The government will fully implement the FANC's opinion in all its modalities. We will not make any concessions in this respect. If, according to the FANC, investments are needed, they will be made before Objective 1 and Objective 2 are put back into operation. This brings me seamlessly to the problem of SALTO. Let us be very clear on this: if the IAEA had time and space now, a SALTO analysis could now be carried out. However, there is an agenda problem. The FANC is also not obliged to have the SALTO analysis carried out. The FANC applies the guidelines and on top of that a SALTO analysis will be carried out. We will have it implemented as soon as possible by the international body responsible for this matter as soon as it fits into its agenda. However, since it is not a legal obligation, this is not necessary before rebooting. Much has been said here, but the FANC is under the control of the same body, which should also be responsible for the SALTO analysis. The FANC shall be subject to regular audit by that body. The FANC is getting a positive audit over and over again and I believe that this is a sufficient guarantee to believe and have confidence in the FANC's analysis. This analysis will clarify whether or not we can reopen Objective 1 and extend the lifespan of Objective 2. I would also like to come back to the problem of Mr Bens. Mr Bens is not the FANC and the FANC is not Mr Bens. Mr Bens is the director of the FANC. He's the first in command, but of course he's part of a board of directors. There is also a board of directors and a scientific committee. Let us hope that a statement made by Mr Bens on the left or right, of which I have given you my appreciation, will call the whole operation of the FANC into question, is an analysis which I do not share at all. The FANC is much more than just Mr Bens. I can tell you, perhaps you already know that Mr Bens will appear before the subcommittee on 8 July after his sick leave due to a heart condition. I have one final comment: it is short, I admit it for Mr Nollet. You have said several times in the gallery that the government is putting pressure on the FANC. I don't accept that. I have said several times that there is no pressure from the government on the FANC. If you say that the FANC is being put under pressure by the government, you must be able to prove it, otherwise you cannot make such statements here in the gallery. I repeat for the umpteenth time that the government is not putting any pressure on the FANC in any way. The FANC has the autonomy to come forward with an opinion on the extension of life and restart. We will follow that advice without putting any pressure on the FANC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u343	Mr President, Mr Minister, where I think at least you are putting pressure on AFCN, it is on SALTO. If I follow the guidelines of the Federal Agency and the documents it has published, it recommends the arrival of a SALTO mission for an additional external evaluation with respect to the preconditions and elements related to aging by the end of 2014. It recommends that this be done before the LTO expires, before February 2015 for Doel 1 and before December 2015 for Doel 2. These are the AFCN recommendations. This was reiterated in the press release of April 18, 2014 published on the Federal Agency's website. It is clearly stated that applications related to SALTO and pre-SALTO are necessary for those considering an LTO and not for those who have already gone beyond it. These are currently documents published by the Federal Agency. You say in committee, and I repeat what you said in the report: "This is not possible. A SALTO mission will be carried out later, i.e. in January 2017 for the full mission and in February 2016 for the pre-SALTO mission, i.e. after the LTO. In addition, this mission will be limited in scope. What is it, if not to say to the Federal Agency: you have your guidelines, but I find that this is not possible, well, we will go through it? If we are limited to what the Federal Agency has published on its non-suspecting website, we must do so before we make the decision. This is where there is inconsistency and therefore pressure. You say: you have to, after that will be in 2017. But the Agency has always written that it was before. Even Electrabel said it was before. I have the document here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u344	The documents do not prove anything about the government's alleged pressure on the PSAN. This agency is an autonomous body. We ask them to provide a safety opinion for the Doel 1 and 2 restart and it is the AFCN that must at that time assess whether they have the means to give an opinion or not. So far, they say they can do it without the SALTO. But we will do the SALTO as soon as possible, when it is appropriate for the international body.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u345	Minister, where do they say they can do without SALTO? Indeed, I was able to read on the Federal Agency's website that we need to call on the SALTO, in advance, when, for your part, you say we can do without it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u346	We'll see what the AFCN says. I have always said that I would follow his advice and that I did not intend to put pressure on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u347	But the opinion exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u348	I'm used to doing what I say!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u349	Of course! What you're saying is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u350	We will therefore invite the AFCN to give an opinion. It will be up to her to assess whether she has all the elements to do so. This is his responsibility, his duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u351	Minister, you are right to insist on this. I don't have a problem with that. But the Federal Agency issued a notice that was published on April 18, 2014. He's on his website. It recommends this pre-SALTO mission to those who are considering an LTO and not to those who have already achieved one. The opinion exists. It was published on the Federal Agency's website on April 18, 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u352	Mr Nollet, that is why this SALTO mission has already been planned. It will take place as soon as possible. It is now up to the AFCN to decide whether or not it can give an opinion. In my view, this is a fairly clear position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u353	I hear what you're saying. I do believe that the responsibility lies with AFCN. That is why, in my speech, I wanted to warn her. We know very well what the intention, the will, the government's timetable is. But I wanted to let the Federal Agency know that it should not give in to these applications and that it had to respect what it had written, for the last time, on April 18, 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u354	Mr Nollet, this is a normal position that I can understand, but I cannot accept your comments that we are putting pressure on AFCN to do something that it does not want. I do not accept this position. We don't do it, we're willing to follow the way we work at AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u355	Therefore, why in committee, which I thank you again because you were not obliged to do so, did you say that the mission will be limited in scope and will then take place? However, when you come to the commission, you know that the federal agency recommends that it take place before.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u356	But no, I don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u357	But this is on the site!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u358	These are probably intentions that AFCN has published. I don't know at the moment whether AFCN needs this SALTO to give an opinion or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u359	It's in the federal agency's strategic note. It's a public document. It's not something we're inventing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u360	It is up to them to make this estimate when we ask them for an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u361	I can go into your reasoning, but if they say they do it later, you have to admit that the PSAN will have changed its position, whereas there is no external objective reason to do so unless it is to meet the needs of the calendar. But we will come back to it because it will have to be explained in relation to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u362	I do not accept your comments that the government is putting it under pressure because that is not the truth at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u363	In this case, she will have to give the reason for her change of position, while no external elements justify it, because her release date in tempore non suspecto of 18 April 2014 except that it is your intervention to advocate 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u364	You will have the opportunity to interview the AFCN officials on July 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u365	I have taken note of the date and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u366	Without putting any pressure on anyone in the scenario that is emerging here, minister, you mention that the AFCN will do so independently, I can hear you, and I will believe you. But from the moment the SALTO is done after, what will the AFCN do if after the SALTO, you have to stop a reactor, after it has eventually taken the decision to reopen the reactor, but the SALTO tells it after you have to stop the reactor? What will still be the credibility of the institution? Will the AFCN be able to take this risk? Should we not anticipate SALTO and wait until it is actually delivered? We're putting the plow before the ox. What will still be the credibility of the institution if after the SALTO, it is told that the reactor must be stopped? That is the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u367	We are coming, I think, at the end of the plenary session. Everyone will still be able to express themselves. I would nevertheless like to highlight at this stage all the work that has been done in a few months by our minister, I am speaking here on behalf of the majority, to identify, to identify the whole problem of energy in our country, and God knows whether this problem is important, and also to begin to provide some elements of an answer to it. This is reflected in the draft legislation on which we have already worked in committee, including the transposition of the European Energy Supply Directive, the recent Fluxys bill, the creation of the energy fund, and now the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, which is known to be important for ensuring electricity supply for this winter. With regard to the legal interpretation, which has occupied much of our debate, the majority trusts the minister's reading. It must also be stressed that this law is only a step. We know the Minister's willingness to develop an energy plan using all the possibilities and all the complementary avenues. We can be certain that all this will happen in the coming weeks or months to diversify as much as possible the electricity supply to our country, the population and also the industry – it is important to stress this. In the meantime, I wanted to thank the Deputy Prime Minister who participated in these meetings, provided us with his insights and showed us the attention he gives – as well as the government – to nuclear security. He also stressed the independence of the AFCN, which sometimes seemed to be questioned in these discussions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u368	We work in shifts. I would like to take this opportunity to say a number of things, also in connection with the presentation by both ministers. I have never had a chance to thank my fellow Members and the services, so I would also like to do so explicitly. However, I do not think that what we are experiencing today is a good page in Belgian energy history. Madam Minister, if you say that you are applying for the 2003 law, I clearly disagree with that. What we are facing here today or tomorrow is the first stage of the funeral of the 2003 law. As far as I am concerned, we are actually witnessing the end of the law on the core exit. For the second time after Fukushima, the Belgian Parliament is threatening to decide to extend the life of an old nuclear reactor by ten years. So if you say that you fully comply with the law of 2003 and that you subscribe to that philosophy, then I totally disagree. What we have here today actually means that what remains of the first stage of the initial law is to be given up again. All in line with the boycott and sabotage of the pioneer law in 2003 to step out in stages. All in line with the boycott and sabotage of almost all the political parties in this country when it comes to the core exit. The result, if this law is passed tomorrow and the next stages are rolled out, is that you choose to maintain a double monopoly, a monopoly of a player and of a technology, until 2025 and to evolve into a legislation in which almost the entire nuclear capacity would have to be closed down in two years. I do not think that is a rational, pragmatic choice, but a dogmatic and ideological choice. There is nothing left of the rational, phased law of 2003 today. This majority is in favour of a theoretical law on the core stop. That is the future boycotting, sabotage, and that is a long way from what was decided in 2003. Please do not repeat that you are registered in the law of 2003. The opposite is true. Finally, on the legal framework. It's my belief that this story is not over. I have just heard you say with the necessary temperament, and even almost cheerfulness, that there will be proceedings before the Constitutional Court. I think that is a very irresponsible attitude. It is my belief that this was perfectly avoidable. I would remind you that the first opinion of the Council of State dates from 18 February this year. You could have already organised a public investigation and an environmental impact assessment. You should not have said here today that you knew that proceedings were coming to the Constitutional Court. You have once again opted for a persistent, dogmatic position there. If you had wanted to extend the life of the power stations, you could have done so in a different way since February, since the draft law was tabled here. It is almost to our rage and annoyance that we have had to determine how you have managed such an important dossier. I'm closing up. I told you, it's definitely not done. Mrs Dierick, Doel 3 and Tihange 2 will be in possession in the coming months. Of course, this has an impact on the next stages of this bill. There will be a convention. There will probably be legal procedures. Our group will use all the energy it has, and that is quite a lot and indeed includes renewable energy, in order not to allow this to happen. In 2003, this country was a pioneer with courage, but today, post-Fukushima and for the second time, I repeat, the first time with Tihange 1 under the previous legislature, this Parliament with Objective 1 and Objective 2 steers the life span of a 1975 reactor. There's very little future in those power stations. As Greens, we are in favour of the future and we will not be helping to adopt this bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u369	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u370	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (967/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (967/7) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production in order to ensure security of supply in the field of energy." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear energy for industrial electricity production in order to guarantee security of energy supply". The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u371	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 17 - Johan Vande Lanotte cs (96 7/8) Annex V.Part • 16 - Michel de Lamotte (967/8) • 21 October 1997 Marco Van Hees (967/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 3/1(n) • 20 - Johan Vande Lanotte cs (96 7/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-17-54-plenair-ip053x.u372	****** The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 June 2015 at 3 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, June 18, 2015 at 15.00 hours.
