ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we resume the general discussion and give the floor to Mr Vuye, I would like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents has decided as follows. We decided to start our work tomorrow morning at 11:00 a.m., which means that the Governance Committee will also meet, not at 9:00 a.m. but at 10:00 a.m. All work is therefore postponed by one hour. We will only have a brief break in the afternoon. I assume an e-mail will be sent to all Members to provide information on that change of hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u4	Mr President, as usual, I will be a little shorter than the other people who will take the floor. A number of parties have miracle solutions to the economic crisis. It is called a just tax shift, it is called a rich tax. Only, of course, they are confronted with the harsh reality on the ground. The harsh reality on the ground is that there is no horn of abundance there, from which a number of billions can be drawn. One can dream of it, but one will not find those billions. Reality is different. The reality is that not even half of the estimated amount of EUR 215 million will eventually be achieved. Think of the fairness tax of the Di Rupo government. There is also the example of the rich tax in France, announced with the band first and then removed in silence. There is the fine example of the capital tax or capital gains tax in the Netherlands, which was also announced to be removed. What was the tax? One assumes a fictitious, so not real return. The tax rate is 30%. That's a dreamed tax on the left: she's unfair, she's wrong, and she's job-destructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u5	I have a question for you, Mr Vuye. You say that our proposals do not make any sense. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we did not propose these measures, but, among other things, the Supreme Court of Finance, in fact, at the request of someone from the current government, who then had a different role, particularly Mr Geens. In his report, the Supreme Court of Finance has said that more jobs are created when it comes to reducing taxes on low wages, and that a tax on added value can create a return of EUR 4 billion. That is not the horn of abundance, but a result as calculated by the Supreme Court of Finance. I take it you're confident that this calculation has taken place seriously. It is not about calculations of sp.a., PS or Green, but about calculations of the OECD, which clearly states that Belgium is one of the countries where taxes on added value do not exist. Your party always claims that Belgium is the most burdened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u6	That's right. Of course, you want to be champion in all categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u7	Mr Vuye, I allowed you to speak. While, first of all, 1% of the population owns 80% of the added value and pays zero taxes, you say, your party says, the government says that it is no longer able to collect taxes from that group and that ordinary citizens should tax ordinary families. Secondly, you are talking about the previous government and, among other things, the fairness tax. The previous government, Mr Vuye, has also done very clearly to combat fraud. I read recently that the caiman tax will suddenly bring a little more. Your government has hardly anything in the budget, and some say nothing even, registered for the fight against fraud. Let me make it clear to you once again that the previous government raised EUR 1.8 billion in three years. Your government is counting on a fraction of that. You get the money from the ordinary families and not from the 1% richest. Besides, you're not gonna make it to the big fraudsters either.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u8	Mr President, I know that the pass-partout for Mrs Temmerman, as for so many from the opposition, is a reference to the tax shift. When I hear their argument, that tax shift becomes not only a tax lift, but also a tax drift. We are no longer discussing the index jump, but the question of where new taxes can be found. Mr Van Rompuy said that Green has a plan for EUR 8.5 billion and sp.a has another plan. I'd like to pierce a myth. You claim that the value added tax will affect only 1% of citizens. That is absolute economic nonsense and it also proves that you do not know anything about it. I would not like to feed the Belgians who invest in shares, directly, through an investment fund or pension savings. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions of people, who have an investment portfolio and can get a penny from time to time. Secondly, Mrs Temmerman, you always have the mouth full of added-value taxes. That seems to be your dada, you stand up with the added tax and sleep with it, you eat it and drink it. It's been granted to you. Know, however, that if things are worse economically, there is also such a thing as inferior value. If you are honest and do not want to discriminate, you must tax capital gains and make negative values deductible. I do not know of any country in the world where the capital gains are taxed, while the negative values are not taken into account. In other words, I don't know if that's a stable economic basis for your famous tax shift. I don't know. Thirdly, and finally, what I do hear, is that many young entrepreneurs, start-ups who create tomorrow's economy and guarantee prosperity in our country day after day, every time there is talk in Parliament and in the newspaper about added value taxes, ask whether there is any point in doing business in our country. You don't know what economic damage you're doing with that kind of discourse. What we need to do is to take measures that create jobs and, above all, prosperity. What you are doing with your proposal is constantly attacking entrepreneurship. That's what we're not supposed to do in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u9	Mr President, briefly I would like to repeat the following. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are talking about pension savings. Do you know what capital tax this government has already applied, as the only tax on capital? The anticipatory tax on pension savings. With regard to pension savings, you have blamed the opposition, but your government considers pension savings to be the big capital. In your so-called tax shift of 2 billion euros you want to implement, there is also pension savings. We do not regard that as the large capital. You do, but we don't. Moreover, I did not say that the added value is only 1%. I said that 1% of the population has 80% of the added value. That information is not from me, it's from the OECD, the High Council for Finance and the Planning Office. You can't put words in my mouth that I haven't spoken. You ask what the entrepreneurs will say. Well, we also want a reduction in the burden of wages. However, we want the burden of reducing the burden of wages to be paid by everyone and not just by the people who are going to work. What are these employees supposed to think? Does it still make sense for the employees to carry out their hard work on a daily basis? We also wonder who will create jobs. You call the index jump a miracle miracle to create jobs. First, it would be 80 000, then 40 000 and now only 16 000 jobs. Not us, not the opposition, but all the studies show that a targeted reduction in the wage burden, paid by an added value tax, will create many more jobs. Mr van Quickenborne, it is therefore incomprehensible that you are still holding on to the one recipe, which is to the detriment of ordinary families, the people who go to work everyday. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u10	Mr Van Quickenborne, I would like to make three points. First of all, you must not convince me that we must act in this country. Hence our plea to reduce the burden on labour and to do more than the government is doing today. You're gonna go crazy when you say that entrepreneurs create jobs and prosperity. Mr Van Quickenborne, who creates prosperity in this country? Prosperity comes from the unique marriage of the commitment of both employees and employers. I'd like to invite you to tell me the full picture. If you say that you think job creation and entrepreneurship are important, it only supports our plea for a real reduction in labour costs. Secondly, you can make every effort in the world, but you cannot deny that the index jump is a lifelong tax increase for all those who work. Of a liberal party that considers work important and wants to valorize it, I think it is a punishment that you would rather do the fiscal effort and the reduction of the burden through workers' wages than through other revenues. I find that strange, unbalanced and unfair. Thirdly, you are there again with the tax shift, you say to the opposition. We are not alone in this. There is great public support for it. Not just a few people in this House want this, a lot of people insist on it. By the way, there are entrepreneurs there. That's my experience, isn't it? You just referred to your meetings with young entrepreneurs. Young entrepreneurs and SMEs would very much like to see taxation reform in this country. In politics, too, it is not only the opposition that makes the link between this debate of the index jump and the tax shift. The colleagues from CD&V have done the same. During the discussion in committee, they made a request to make a decision on the tax shift in addition to a decision on the index jump. They made that clutch. Mr Verherstraeten, how incredibly naive that state-supporting party, that CD&V policy machine, has become, that one is pushing a green button here for the index jump, but cannot yet present anything about the tax shift. I don't understand. That doesn't fit your party's tradition. Mr Vuye, I am glad that you are not in Flagey but in the Chamber, that you are not only campaigning but also taking part in the parliamentary debate. I know this is not evident in your political family. Thank you very much for that. Thank you for being here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u11	You're welcome, Mr Calvo. I wanted to come and listen to you. I knew you'd make a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u12	Mr. Vuye, you've got a lot of nerve.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u13	Mr Calvo, I take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u14	You are today chasing the index jump through the throats of people who work and people who have to fall back on benefits. You are the only party that has been drawn to the elections with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u15	We're honest, we're honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u16	Wait, I'm getting to my point. I'll give you your courage in a moment. You chase the index jump down the throat of the working people. You are driving him down the throats of Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Peeters, Mr Beke, who are fiercely defending the index jump here and forgetting their own election programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u17	It's called the power of change.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u18	Mr Vuye, I come to you. Wait a minute. If I speak to you, give me a moment to do it on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u19	You've been at it a long time. If I'd known, I'd have brought a chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u20	You oblige the Open Vld, contrary to what they had said in the campaign, I refer to Mr De Croo's statement to go through the index jump. And what are you doing on the day of the meeting? You will publish a free gallery at www.knack.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u21	You read them? That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u22	In that open gallery you say that automatic wage indexation must be on the shovel. Mr Peeters, how long will you allow yourself to play with your feet? How long will you accept that Mr Vuye, on the day you come to defend the index jump you were against, will be honking in the media: now the index jump, tomorrow the abolition of automatic wage indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u23	You haven't listened again, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u24	You said it today: all-in accords, sector agreements, automatic indexation on the shovel. That's what you say today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u25	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u26	How much guts do you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u27	A lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u28	There's gonna be people on the streets working and having a hard time. They rightly feel unfairly treated by the index jump. Parliament is looking into this. Two other majority parties deny their electoral promises. On that day you yourself have the nerve to say that the next step is the abolition of automatic wage indexation. Please, when are we finally gonna hear CD&V and Open Vld about those promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u29	Mr Calvo, are opinions other than yours actually permitted here in this hemisphere? Are other people allowed to defend another position than yours?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u30	I find that interesting, the N-VA who makes a plea for free speech. The party that says that people who protest and social dialogue should not be taken into account, the party that does not take into account opinions on BAM and Uplace, the party that fishes columnists and says to newspapers that those people should not write for them, that party here today makes a plea for free speech. Well, I welcome that. My invitation is with regard to CD&V and Open Vld to stop at some point, this is not yet an N-VA country. Mr Vuye, the fact that you have the guts to say to the workers and your coalition partners today that the next step is to abolish automatic wage indexation is du jamais vu in politics Belgium, which is du jamais vu in a society that has always been based on social dialogue, consensus and political agreements. I really invite CD&V and Open Vld to stop these pyromaniacs. Please stop them, they turn people against each other in this country and start one fight after another. Please stop them, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u31	Mr President, Mr Calvo, you have mentioned us a few times and I am very happy to respond to the invitation. I came in a little later for a visit, I apologize for that, but I understand that from the start this was about the tax shift. In this majority, clear agreements have been reached on the tax shift, and clear agreements have been made with the social partners, in particular that the first measures will have effect both in 2015 and in 2016. We will conclude that in the next few months in the government. Mr Calvo, in the past we have made index jumps in our country, either very explicitly, for example, in the Martens-Gol government, or implicitly, with the introduction of the health index in the Dehaene government, together with the PS, or in the previous government, where we have also beaten the hive and thus implicitly did it. If you say that this measure has a life-long effect, it is economically incorrect. You then assume that no employer will be prepared to grant wage increases in the future, quod non. They even made an agreement on that. You do not assume in any way that trade unions defend the interests of their employees in wage negotiations. This always flattens out in the future and has been eliminated after a while. It's a good thing you're reading newspapers. It's a good thing you're reading sites. I invite you to read the government agreement on this matter as well. I quote: 'The automatic wage indexing mechanism is not called into question.'
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u32	Mr Verherstraeten, first of all, you have heard Mr Vuye and Mr Van Quickenborne on the tax shift, haven't you? You are the only one who claims that there will be a fairer taxation. The other two Members simply state very clearly that they do not like the added value tax. They then set out a series of arguments as to why they do not want that tax. The tax vision of the current majority is not what is being announced, but what has already been decided is what we are reading today in the newspapers. The papers say what you'll do with the diamonds. I know you don't like me calling you on your former role as secretary of the diamond club. Mr Verherstraeten, I am sorry, but I must do so. Take a look today at what the current majority has decided, being a tax at 0.55% of turnover. Mr Van Quickenborne, the young entrepreneurs I meet and you mentioned just now can only dream of them. The tax reality of the current majority is the diamond tax and the added value tax that Mr Vuye and Mr Van Quickenborne are putting aside. Secondly, Mr Verherstraeten, you state that you will not call automatic wage indexation into question. You have a tradition of social consultation. You're one of the Movement. You know, therefore, that if you do not have the courage to whistle back what Mr Vuye is doing today, this will cause social unrest. Mr Vuye announced today, on the day of the discussion of the index jump, that he wanted to abolish automatic wage indexation on behalf of the largest Flemish majority. Mr Verherstraeten, why don't you whistle him back on that point? Why are you so conceited about that point? You know that such statements create social unrest and further instability. Why do you keep putting up with that? Mr Vuye is permanently in campaign. There's a big press conference in Flagey today. While you are trying very sadly and sadly to sell something that you have promised not to do, the N-VA declares that it is implementing this measure and wants to go even further. What's your answer? You answer that your party probably won't. Mr Vuye once again, so that workers know at least that when the index jump is adopted by vote, there will not be another stage in terms of injustice and imbalance in burden sharing and budgetary effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u33	Mr Verherstraeten wishes to respond on the basis of a personal statement. Mr Vuye will then be given the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u34	Mr Calvo, I have already told you that you are better at talking than listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u35	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u36	You may read the newspaper and the news sites, but I have invited you to read the coalition agreement as well. Let me quote it again and ask you to make an effort to listen: "The mechanism of automatic wage indexation is not called into question." Our group agreed to a one-off index jump during the government negotiations. Once is not custom [[.]] I come to the last, to the personal fact. We can discuss taxes. It's supposed to be in a democracy. That should be sharp, too. I like sharp debates in this House. However, if you try to make my person a suspect on the basis of one specific tax, I invite you to call yourself a man and a horse. I would ask you, personally, what contacts I have had with the sector, which would have led this government to approve the carat tax. What contacts have I had with any member of the government, which would have increased this tax? What contacts have I made so that this tax would be introduced? If I had not acted correctly, you may say so. You're supposed to say that, but call him man and horse instead of making anyone suspicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u37	Of course, I am not trying to cast doubt on the ethics of a very sympathetic colleague, Mr Verherstraeten. I wouldn't dare. The fact that you, Mr Jambon and Mr Schiltz, have created something like a Diamond Club today is something you owe to yourself. This is due to the fact that you have recently decided such a turnover tax in the context of budgetary control. You owe that to yourself. That people are wondering who Servais Verherstraeten is doing politics now, for the diamonds or for the ordinary workers, you owe it to yourself. If today is leaking again...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u38	(...) tobacco lobby (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u39	Mr Van Quickenborne, I have not taken any initiative on this. Mr Verherstraeten, you owe it to yourself that people today are outraged at the way taxation looks in this country, when they open the newspaper and find that the diamond sector has to pay a tax of 0.55% of their turnover. If you do not like to be confronted with the image that you apparently conduct a tax policy tailored to diamondry, tailored to the 1% in this country, make sure that you do not take such a measure. Do not bring such a bill to Parliament and I will be the first to applaud and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u40	Mr Calvo, I have no need of your sympathy. I do need answers to the questions I have just asked you. Who have I ever had any contact with in recent years on this topic? What unauthorized contacts would I have had in recent years? You don't answer those questions. I am not going to let the tobacco lobby like you fascinate me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, with respect, I do not know whether it will benefit our debate if we take this tour. Mr Calvo, I would like to conclude this part of the discussion. This is a part we need to leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u42	Mr President, I intend to refer to the tax shift, which is supposed to solve this important wage reduction that the government is organising through its index jump, as well as to the lump-sum costs that are not yet well understood. The majority thus claims to solve all the problems. I will remind you of the tax shift that you have begun to implement: firstly, it is the reform of the secret commission system, which was intended to discourage the payment of occult sums, which are sometimes even found in tax havens. That's what you did: a gift to the fraudsters. Secondly, you have set up the famous liquidation reserve, which is a small laundry machine to reduce the capital tax. It's true, it's a shift tax, but again, it's always for the same people. You have also taken an opaque step in favour of the diamond sector. What my colleague Calvo is asking you is transparency. But you will understand that we doubt your willingness to make such a measure transparent when you deny us the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on the budgetary impact of the index jump. Understand that we no longer expect transparency from you! Understand that we are entitled to ask you to work with open books! Unfortunately, when we express this request, we already know the answer. The question is very simple. In exchange for this EUR 50 million on a turnover which, it is said, exceeds EUR 50 billion, what have you negotiated with this sector? You will not make us believe that these people, who we know are very attentive to their interests, give you 50 million euros without having obtained anything else. The question we ask you is: what are your agreements? I'm not talking about you, Mr. Verherstraeten. There is no reason to think that you have negotiated yourself with the diamond sector. Will the latter finally accept a tax based on such a strange base without obtaining compensation? So what are they? Was a protocol signed, as was the case at the time – and this is obviously not comparable – with the horeca sector? Now we had the deal! Do you have an agreement with the diamond sector? If so, where is he? Otherwise, this is even more worrying because it means you sign a blank cheque with the sense that paying 50 million taxes is all that this sector will have to pay for the rest of the legislature. I hope that's not the case! Finally, let us not lose sight of the fact that all the measures I have just mentioned show a shift in taxation towards capital income, in favour of very large companies, in favour of those who organise their fraud on a transnational scale and that the index jump will not be offset by the flat-rate costs which are insignificant. Minister, I can understand that you do not want to give us the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate, which says that the index jump is not budget neutral. It's very easy to understand. There is a reduction in income taxable to natural persons. This is calculated at the marginal rate. On the one hand, there is therefore a loss of revenue from the tax of natural persons and, on the other, there is a decrease in the operating expenses of enterprises and therefore an increase in their taxable profit. But here, it's at the average rate. That is why, as far as the masses are concerned, you cannot have budgetary neutrality, and that is why you do not want to give the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u43	Mr Vuye, it is time for you to say something. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u44	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u45	No, Mr Calvo, I am sorry, but Mr Vuye has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u46	Mr Calvo, I will address you immediately. You will immediately take the opportunity to ask for the floor again, I have no doubt. To be honest, I find it a little annoying that every time I sit on the speaker's seat, and I am not a CD&V member, you take the opportunity to address Mr Verherstraeten. Honestly, I think that's silly of you. Mr Verherstraeten will probably take the floor here and you can address him at that time. I really do not see why you want to debate each time with Mr Van Quickenborne of the Open Vld and then with Mr Verherstraeten, when I speak here. I am neither a member of the Open Vld nor CD&V. Mrs Temmerman, I have just heard you say a few things about tax fraud. I can only conclude that the BBI has asked for 100 additional staff in the Finance Committee and has also received them from N-VA Minister Van Overtveldt. That is why I ask you to stop sticking the moral finger out at us, as if we were a party for fraudsters. For us fraud is a zero tolerance, for the sake of clarity. Then, Mrs Temmerman, you referred to the small saver, and I really feel the need to do so. After all, what government increased the withholding tax from 15% to 25%? That was a government without the N-VA, but it was a government of which your party was part. That's how you hit the little savers. [[Objection and noise]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u47	Mr Vuye, you were not here when that measure was introduced, so I forgive you for your mistake. That measure did not affect the small saver at all. Again, you're taking on the little saver. Who introduced the anticipatory tax on pension savings? This government. Moreover, I think it is even worse that you, together with the government, say that you have already dealt with the big capital and that the saving of pensions is part of it. I think that's outrageous. You include a part of EUR 300 million in the budget as dealing with big capital while it is about saving pensions. Come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u48	I take note of the formal remark made by Mr Vuye, who finds it bizarre that I always address Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael when he is on the chair. Well, what is also bizarre is that every time Mr Vuye sits in the chair, he also addresses Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael. Mr Vuye has all the time the assertiveness to sit on the hood of the previous government, an assertiveness that Mr Verherstraeten does not show when Mr Vuye here decrepits his programme and causes even more unrest. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to make sure that there is no misunderstanding about something important like that. Mr Verherstraeten, I have no reason at all, and it is not for a moment my message, to doubt your ethics, at all. That may even appear ten times in the report. I do have reason, and that was why I intervened, to doubt your Christian democratic institution. I do have reason, Mr Verherstraeten, to doubt the weight of CD&V in this government. That's why I referred to, for example, the diamond tax. If you add up your performance, of the N-VA impact just today, of the index jump, of the campaign, of the slope of automatic wage indexing, of the news about the diamond tax, you will understand, Mr Verherstraeten, that with me many people have reason to doubt the weight of CD&V and your Christian Democratic institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u49	Mr President, I would be very grateful if you could have a folding bench installed in the future to sit down for a while, because that would be much more practical. I'll follow. We inherited the land in the state in which it is located. In the economic situation in which the country is situated, one can do two things, either look at the situation with the sad look of a hush puppy and say that it is once, or turn its back on it. The latter is what the N-VA has done, and that is also what we mean by the power of change. I would like to discuss three points. First of all, the index jump. My group believes that this is an investment in the future of workers. Who is responsible for this investment? I am well aware that this is an investment by the workers themselves. It will, however, lead to a 2% reduction in labour costs. In this respect, we are a different party and we do not share the beliefs of the left. We do not believe that the government should create jobs, we believe that companies create the jobs. However, the index jump is not a gift for entrepreneurs. For the N-VA Group, this is not a blank cheque. The index jump should provide job creation, not profit maximization. That is an important point of change for us. We want to resume private job creation, not jobs that are ultimately paid or subsidised by the government, in whatever form. We ask for a clear commitment from employers. I find it difficult to hear the recipes that should be applied at congresses of Unizo and VBO, while I sometimes see a different behavior in the Group of Ten. The government offers employers this opportunity, but we expect this job creation to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u50	I do not understand you very well, Mr Vuye. The dada of this government to defend the index jump is that jobs must be created. You're saying you're gonna ask this, but where is this? This isn't in the bill. I didn't find it anywhere. I did not receive an answer in committee either. Sometimes common sense was mentioned. In what way will you ask this? In what way will you check if the funds are being used for investments in new jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u51	Mrs Kitir, we do not live in a planned economy. You cannot impose this on employers. In fact, this is so true that even the previous government did not. We are asking for a moral commitment. I can only observe that I heard Mr Timmermans of the VBO record this commitment very clearly at RTBf. The difference between my party and yours is that I believe in the good faith of the people and the entrepreneurs. I believe that entrepreneurs will create jobs. You don't believe in that, but I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u52	Mr Vuye, if you will reply every time by insinuating matters that I have not said to any other Members of my party, because you cannot answer clearly, then I find it very sad that you continue to defend the index jump in this way. You continue to claim, like the Minister, that the previous governments did not ask for any guarantees in the reduction of charges. The only difference, and that is very important, is the following. Contrary to what the previous government did, this government ensures that wages no longer rise, without asking for guarantees. The previous government has always ensured that wages were also indexed. That's a world of difference! You take people's wages, you tell them you're gonna create jobs, and then you say you can't ask for guarantees. You are making a hard effort to create jobs, but you say that you cannot ask for guarantees, because neither has the previous government. However, the previous government has not reduced the wages of the people either! If you can't ask for a guarantee, you shouldn't do that index jump either. Again, I see that you are providing EUR 860 million in corporate income tax. Then I ask myself what this 2 % index jump is for? Is it effective in creating jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u53	Mr President, I listened to Mr Vuye with interest when he went back to his credo that index jump would allow companies to save money and create jobs. Nevertheless, he did not say how this commitment would be brought into line. We are not – this has never been the case in Belgium – in the context of a planned, communist economy, but we are not in the country of the Bisounours either. Recent examples of tax measures that have been taken in favour of businesses can be cited. I am thinking in particular of the notional interests which, in terms of revenue losses for the State, amount to up to EUR 4 billion per year. Mr Vuye, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, can you provide us with studies showing that this tax advantage granted to businesses has naturally led to job creation? No. This has contributed to a very significant increase in the profits of a number of heavily capitalized companies, some of which do not create jobs in our country or even destroy jobs in our country because we have always refused – the N-VA was not part of the previous majority, but we are now proceeding in the same way – to condition access to these measures to the creation of jobs. In committee, we tabled amendments on the occasion of the discussion of this and other texts aimed at establishing a contractual relationship with companies. You asked and got that advantage that we're challenging. In any case, this should not be done without consideration. And you can't just look forward to thinking on the assumption that you trust the entrepreneur to create jobs. Recent examples show that those who have benefited from these disproportionate tax benefits have not created or even destroyed employment. You have no solution to offer in terms of job creation. You make gifts without accompanying them with conditions and you make the workers pay for the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u54	Mr Vuye, I have one more question to ask in the debate. We've been debating the index jump for hours. Can you give me some proof here that an index jump is not just an integral part of the profits of the companies? With what evidence can you prove here that the money that disappears from the employees is everyone's agreement, 2% - does not just end up in the company's cash register to increase profits? Do you have any proof of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u55	Mr Gilkinet, as far as I am concerned, when I say that I have confidence in entrepreneurs, that is not wishful thinking. I truly believe in those who are still willing to commit to this country, to be creative and to undertake. Maybe we disagree on that point. It's possible. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Kitir and Mr Hedebouw, for job creation, it is a condition sine qua non that labour costs are reduced. You have proposals for this and the majority have proposals for it. We are trying to do that through the index jump. As a result, the labour cost handicap is falling by 2%. This brings us to the level of 1996. Indeed, we differ from belief. We can only determine that. However, I believe effectively that eliminating labour costs will provide jobs. The next point I would like to address is that there is a great deal of disinformation about the index jump. I'd like to make that right. On the website of the ABVV I read that at the end of his career someone who is now 25 years old and earns 2 000 euros will have turned in 27 000 euros due to the index jump. Similar language can also be found on the website of the ACV with their index simulator. Now, that's a big lie. It's pure folklore. Why? Because wages don't rise linearly. That happens in a different way. In fact, Mr Peersman once demonstrated this in De Morgen. What's going on? When we start with growth, there will be increases on top of 2% of the index. Then the index jump will be within a short period of time, Gert Peersman speaks in five years, but personally I think that it will be much faster. I take the figures from the Joint Committee 218 and I see that between 2000 and 2010 there were countless wage increases at the top of the index. In other words, the index jump will be run in the shortest time. This also means that everyone has an interest in getting involved in economic growth and, above all, again, this is the change in private job creation. It is therefore necessary to stop the kind of demagogy in which people say that the index jump is carried along throughout their career, because that is clearly not the case. That's obviously wrong information. In the 1980s there were three index jumps and several devaluations. If that information were correct, we would all now earn 20% more than we do now. Is there anyone in the room who believes that? (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) So, Mrs Temmerman, you believe that we would all be 20% richer by now? Mrs. Temmerman, that's incredible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u56	Mr Vuye, you are explaining to us that you are making an index jump that is compensated and that there will be no impact on wage developments, i.e. no loss of purchasing power. When we try to prove otherwise, you tell us you don't believe us. I am not surprised by you! When it's the unions that say it, you say it's nonsense. The same is true for employers, including the Voka, the Walloon Union of Enterprises, and the big bosses on the French side who say they need a competitive shock but that it is not with the index jump that they will get there. You believe them or not, I don't know! As for your Finance Minister N-VA, he said: "We never denied that there would be a loss of purchasing power." I dare imagine you're not going to show us the opposite! We spoke earlier about the report of the Finance Inspectorate, which we absolutely do not want to see. It's goed bestur. It's the new goed bestur mode. We're hiding things more and more. Let's move on! So, we don't want to see the report of the Finance Inspectorate. But what did the Deputy Prime Minister in committee say about this? He said some things, including that the long-term effects of index jump are negative for entity 1. I quote: "The decrease in expenditure does not compensate for the decrease in revenue." What does that mean? That the effect on citizens' incomes is so clear that it obviously leads to a reduction in revenue for the state! Since this morning, I have heard some colleagues from the majority say and repeat that there will be no effect on purchasing power. Through the Minister of Finance and the Finance Inspectorate's report, I have proof that it will be exactly the opposite. These are authorities whose, I imagine, Mr. Vuye, you are not going to question the positions and statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u57	Mr. Vuye, I knew mathematics was a problem for Minister Galant, but there seems to be an epidemic at the government level. It seems that you also have problems with mathematics. I don't know if your teachers told you when you were at school. You tell us that this loss of purchasing power related to index jump is not going to continue in time. Excuse me, Mr. Vuye, but if we cut a 2 per cent salary, or 98 per cent of the original salary, all the following increases will necessarily feel this handicap. They will not only maintain it, but they will also amplify it from year to year. The more wage increases in the application of the index or extra-index, the greater the loss. In terms of mathematics, you would have some catch-up lessons to receive. If you wish, I can give you the contact details of a teacher I know who can teach you. It's not very expensive of the hour. It's not in black! It's stated. It is to such an extent that the index jumps that took place in the 1980s have resulted in the loss of 50,000 euros today to someone who has since worked at an average wage. Mr Vuye, do not say that these 50,000 euros represent a loss that disappears in time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u58	Mr President, I believe that we will end up in Absurdistan in the long term. Do you really believe, Mr Van Hees, that employers' organisations in the social dialogue would have reached an agreement to increase wages by 0.5 % and 0.3 % over the next two years, 2015 and 2016 if there had not been an index jump? You should know that there is still a wage handicap of 2.9 % to our main trading partners. That 2.9 % has only been calculated since 1996, when we adopted the law on competitiveness. Before that, our country had even greater labour costs handicap vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. The only thing the government is doing is to continue the evolution that the Di Rupo government has started before. He also recognised that there was a labour cost handicap. It was around 5% in 1996 and now stands at 2.9 %. We will tackle this handicap in two ways: on the one hand there is the index jump and on the other hand there are the social contributions and the tax-shift debate, which will be held in the government. In this way we will ensure that we are competitive again. Believing that the index jumps, which have already been there, have not been compensated in any way, is wrong. They are now being compensated in the Group of Ten, and they are now being compensated in the social agreements. Do you really think that the index jumps of the 1980s have led to wages being 20% higher today? Then our labour cost handicap would be 25% today! Are you serious? That's really absurd!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u59	Mrs Temmerman, I have asked you whether you believe that and you have answered yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u60	Yes and no.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u61	You answered yes. Now you say no. But you just said yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u62	Mr Vuye, you continue to say that the index jump is not a structural measure and that it is not carried along throughout its life. May I remind you of a quote from your Minister Van Overtveldt? It said that the index jump, firstly, is a structural measure, and secondly, a measure that employers will feel their whole lives. The employers, Mr Vuye! So, for the employers it counts, but for the employees it wouldn't count? Excuse me, but of course you can't. The basis of mathematics is that if one deducts from a basic amount of 2 %, that continues to play along. This is not 20%, I agree. But they're dragging it along. Once again, your own Minister, Mr Van Overtveldt, said himself that it is a structural measure that employers will carry with them for the rest of their entrepreneurial career. The same applies to the workers. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u63	You'll get that. Mrs Fonck also referred to this. What Minister Van Overtveldt says is obvious. When an index jump is introduced, this is a structural measure. This reduces labour costs by 2%. That's still effective. The mistake that you are making, and which Mr Van Hees is making, I will give you the column of Gert Peersman, is to think that wages increase by 2% linearly every year. Mrs. Temmeman, would you listen to what I'm saying? You'd do me a favor. Even Mr Calvo has been listening for half an hour now, which is also a bit unusual. It is not right that wages increase by 2% linearly each year. We are, however, negotiating wage increases with a free-for-all system with the Group of Ten. From the moment there is economic growth, wage increases are made at the top of 2%. One then goes to 3 or 4 %. At that moment the gap of the index jump is closed. So we, you, I, everyone, have every interest in getting on with economic growth. Then it will indeed be a structural measure, which will help the economy forward. Please stop thinking that wages increase by 2 % linearly each year. That's not right. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) I won't convince you, Mrs. Temmerman. Thirdly, the index jump is a sensible measure. Why? Also read the report of the National Bank of 2012. That report was once denounced, but it is a very interesting document, in which people say very clearly that in the case of low-economic conditions, slackening economic conditions or a declining economic situation, automatic indexation destroys jobs. Let me read out the passage: "The greater the downward real rigidity of wages, for example because of wage indexation mechanisms, the more companies adjust their workforce when they are confronted with negative shocks." They do so by reducing the number of permanent workers, but also by reducing temporary staff and working hours." So at that moment, the automatic indexation involves job destruction. Nor is it a coincidence that the European Commission, the IMF and the OECD are asking to review the system of automatic indexation. Left-wing parties at that time prefer indexation, which destroys jobs and thus makes purchasing power lost. Indeed, most purchasing power is lost in job destruction. At that moment, you are nothing with your index. They then try not to cope with the loss of purchasing power by what the current majority is trying to do, namely job creation in the private sector. On the other hand, they are trying to compensate for the loss of purchasing power by means of benefits. More benefits create a budgetary problem, which is then dealt with by more taxes. We follow a completely different logic. We are trying to get involved in job creation in the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u64	Mr Vuye, are you asking for automatic wage indexation to be abolished or not? You know my point of view. That's what you quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u65	I'm getting there now. It's the last point. You're always a little too reactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u66	Then it's okay. I have not read your text in advance and cannot therefore know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u67	I will perhaps forward my text to you first in the future. You do not have to edit the text, Mr Calvo. I'll do it myself. I repeat what Mr Verherstraeten said about the coalition agreement. I fully confirm his words. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that there will be a one-off index jump. The N-VA Group supports this provision, because we believe that, Mrs Wouters, we have also written this in this morning's opinion document; you apparently did not read it; it was at the end of the document that the government agreement was the best thing to be achieved, given the way in which the electorate distributed the cards in the elections of 25 May 2014. We will faithfully implement the coalition agreement. However, that does not prevent me from being entitled to an opinion of my own. Nor does that prevent the N-VA from being entitled to its own opinion. This does not prevent us from believing that there are systems of inflation compensation which are far more performant than automatic indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u68	It's du jamais vu. May I ask Mrs. Onkelinx a question? Mrs. Onkelinx, you've been in politics for a while. Have you already seen that a government party decides, but actually thinks that way and, even if it causes social unrest, pours some oil on the fire. That's not how serious people do politics, is it? You represent a party that reached 33% in the elections. Behave accordingly, Mr Vuye, and stop constantly turning people against each other and putting the prosperity of our country at risk by your administrative style. You seem to find it normal to read this out of your program every week. On the one point you have not realized, you must say that you do. It is du jamais vu and I think Mrs Onkelinx supports me in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u69	You're right! For the rest, there have often been differences in approach and sensitivity between members of the same government, which is normal. It is quite common for these differences of appreciation to transpir outside of government or Kern meetings. What is new is that differences in approach are systematically reasons for almost daily disputes in the press. The government is living only between the CD&V and N-VA disputes over almost every chapter of the government agreement. For the rest, if I understand correctly – if not, Mr Group Leader, you will take me back – the N-VA obviously assumes the index jump that appears in the government agreement; but the N-VA is ready to go further and change the very system of wage indexation to, you say, counter the effects of inflation. Is that it? Is it possible, without being denied, to say on the outside that the N -VA is not just asking for an index jump but is in favour of a general challenge to the wage indexation system? I expect an answer to this simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u70	You speak of disputes, of disputes. I think there is a problem with the translation or you are not listening properly. I started by saying that I say exactly the same thing as Mr Verherstraeten. Mr Verherstraeten read twice the coalition agreement. I say very clearly that we will be faithfully implementing the coalition agreement. So I say exactly the same thing, but this is a coalition, not a merger, Mrs Onkelinx, we have not become the MR or CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u71	Don't think we're fools, that's not the question we asked! We do not want to know if you will faithfully implement the government agreement on index jump, you will vote it tomorrow night! I ask for the position of the N-VA on our wage indexation system! It's something else!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u72	You may not know, but we organised a major conference at the end of January and early February 2014. These congress texts clearly state the position of the N-VA on inflation compensation. That's very clear. This is still effectively the position of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u74	I don't think that's the subject here. It is also explained in the opinion document to which Mr Calvo has referred several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u75	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u76	Mrs Onkelinx, we are not debating the N-VA programme here, but the coalition agreement. That's something completely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u77	You yourself asked earlier not to confuse, saying that you are not part of the CD&V, nor of Open Vld, but you are part of the N-VA. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u78	Since you say that there is a problem with inflation, index, etc., I just want to know whether or not the N-VA – not the government, the N-VA! – wants the end of the wage indexation system. Say it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u79	I think Mr Vuye has said that he wants to abolish automatic indexation because that is what is in his congressional texts. He felt it was important to say that again today, making the mandate of Minister Peeters and Mr Beke even more difficult here today. That's how the N-VA does politics. I regret that, because that doesn't add up to a single job. On the contrary, it causes a great deal of instability. Mr Vuye, I would like to ask for further clarification on your programme, or rather the implementation of your programme on the basis of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u80	Mr Calvo, the coalition agreement has been concluded between the partners. It is therefore no longer a question of implementing the N-VA programme in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u81	Mr Vuye, allow me to say three more sentences.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u82	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u83	I have some quotes here from election campaigns, so I also recommend that Mr Beke be careful. Mr Vuye, during a topical debate on the tax shift a few weeks ago, you said that a shift to the great powers is not in the coalition agreement. If other groups want to do so, for example Mr Verherstraeten's group, then you too will put on the table matters which are not part of the coalition agreement. Today you highlight the fact that you really want to abolish automatic wage indexation, even in this legislative period. Is that one of those things you put back on the table, as you announced a few weeks ago? I believe that this question can be put in the light of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u84	When a government is formed, there is a coalition agreement, as everyone knows. The government partners are bound by that government agreement and the government agreement also binds those partners, not the individual programme of each party. That doesn't stop the government from... it's always been. When Mrs Onkelinx was in the government, the PS also had its own programme and the PS had the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u85	Mr Calvo, Mrs Onkelinx, it is the right of political parties to be in favour of the abolition of the index. However, this is not in the coalition agreement and CD&V will also not participate in any negotiation on the abolition of the index. That is a first point. I have just heard a great deal of indignation about the attack on the purchasing power of ordinary people. Now, the National Bank has calculated the impact on purchasing power of all the measures taken by the government, namely the index jump, the reduction of the employer's contribution, the increase in the deduction for professional costs and the working bonus for low wages. Is there an impact? Yes, there is a short-term negative impact of 0.4%. This is exactly the same as the impact of the previous government measure in 2012-2013 with the adjustment of the index and wage freeze. There is, however, that big difference, which was also referred to by Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, that trade unions and employers are now given a margin to negotiate wage increases. That's the big difference. You're talking about an attack, but what's there to attack on? I am talking about the index jump, the reduction in the employer's contribution, the increased deduction of professional costs and the working bonus for low wages. Mrs Onkelinx, you spoke earlier about pensions. What you are not saying is that despite zero inflation, this government has decided to use the welfare envelope at 100% and increase pensions. That is what this government has done for 100%, while the previous government has done for 60%. So yes, Mrs Temmerman and Mrs Onkelinx, we are taking action here. Do they have an impact on people's purchasing power? Of course they have an impact. But just as the previous government has taken measures that have had an impact on people's purchasing power, they serve only for one thing, being maximum job creation. CD&V is not disturbed by what others say in their program. For me, this should be included in the programme referred to by Mr Vuye. The same programme of the same congress also stated that a new major state reform would be carried out. Neither will we for the next five years. We have a government agreement and we will be loyal to the sixth state reform in the coming years, but we are not going to prepare a new state reform in this Chamber. What other parties stand for, that's their business. What binds us is what, as Mr Vuye said, is in the coalition agreement. We fully support that. If you are intellectually honest and dare to compare it with the previous government, the great indignation you are showing here today would not last much.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to echo what Mr Beke has said. Firstly, as far as the past is concerned. There's been an evocation from the Martens-Gol government here. To this day, I want to defend what that government did. I would remind you that in 1981 we had an annual deficit of 13.2% to be financed. Today we are talking about 2 to 3 %. Mr Mathot, when Minister for the Budget, said that the deficits had become self-evident and that they would also disappear on their own. This was the situation in 1981 in a country which was totally uncompetitive and which then, with a minority government on the French-speaking side, made three index jumps, a devaluation of the Belgian franc, and a legislation launched Monory-De Clercq-Cooreman which encouraged the company's own capital and fiscal incentives for equity. In 1985, Belgium's economy was once again competitive. I want to defend all these measures again today. It is all too easy to say today that this was wrong. No, those were the right measures, but they were also unpopular measures. However, they were necessary. One can never realize things that no one will feel, and I turn to the Socialist colleagues. Tomorrow we'll shave for free, never gonna happen. Secondly, let us look at what this government has done in the field of tax shift. There are those who come intellectually to the idea of a large tax shift, but this has already been realised for EUR 2.7 billion. At least this is the amount that was budgeted. It concerns the banking contribution, the Cayman tax and measures in the field of excise duties. Mr Temmerman, this is in stark contrast to the previous government's competitiveness pact, which had not been completed in the budget. We had planned EUR 450 million three times, but Mr Beke and Mr Verherstraeten, this was not yet made budgetary. We have made this clear in budgetary measures today. EUR 900 million of these EUR 2.7 billion will be used to pay out the welfare envelope 100 percent. This, of course, makes you a little difficult, Mrs Onkelinx, but the previous government has never succeeded in doing so. I specify: EUR 900 million for the welfare envelope and EUR 900 million for the reduction of the employer's contribution. We did not do that in 2015, but we will do so for the full EUR 900 million in 2016. This is a boost from the government for the competitiveness of business. There is also a EUR 900 million reduction in taxation with the deduction for flat-rate professional expenses. That means that the index jump isn't really felt by anyone. We raise the wealth envelope, we effectively compensate with a tax advantage and we give an advantage to business. Thirdly, why is the index jump economically necessary? And then they come up with all sorts of reports on what this government or any other government is doing. Let all socialist mayors neutralize that in their budget. Why don't you do that? Mr Termont thinks it is a good measure. Mr Termont is the second best mayor in the world, and he thinks it is a good measure, because in his budget this is a lot of money. All the socialists are so outraged. Mr Vanvelthoven, I wonder if you will compensate for that index jump in Lommel, neutralize the budget and return what we will take from the people to the people. So you don't. Let's face it, an index jump gives a budgetary advantage to the government, gives an advantage to the employer. He doesn't give an advantage to the employee, but we compensate through taxation. So it's not a win-win situation, it's a win-win situation. I'm rounding up. Mrs Temmerman, can I tell you what we did in the previous legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u87	I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u88	You know it, but I will remind you and the media of what we did in the previous legislature. Mr Calvo, you were in the opposition at the time. Let it stay that way for a while. You're doing very well in the opposition, so there's nothing left. I am addressing the short-term socialists, who have achieved a competitiveness pact of EUR 450 million three times. We asked Mr Vande Lanotte, an extremely sensible man, I hope that I did not ask Mr Van Quickenborne to work on his system in 2012 to look at the composition of the index basket. He did it wisely. If it was said that this was manipulation of the index basket, then one should not put it that way. However, it was so efficient that no index adjustments have actually been made since 2012. So it was very efficient. He also added the VAT reduction on electricity and the index was actually neutralized. That is what happened in the previous legislature. What else happened in the previous legislature? Mrs Temmerman, you can raise your hand, but you have spoken a lot and I am going to speak now. What else happened in the previous legislature? A pay freeze. This government has chosen to renegotiate very modest wage increases through the social partners. Under Di Rupo there was a pay freeze. Talked to the unions? No. The socialist syndicate was part of the government. There was no need to negotiate a wage freeze, which was unilaterally decreed by the government. That is the reality. It was so imposed. We say no, we once again give flexibility and freedom to wage negotiations. We're doing one index jump. That one index jump stands for "that's my last word about it" for about 2% overtaking competitiveness. They are antisocials who do not understand the problem of competitiveness disability. These are antisocials, people who don't want companies to be able to create jobs. That competitiveness handicap in our country is a fact. If we can take the advantage of one index jump next year and if we can add EUR 900 million, twice EUR 450 million, through the budget, then at the end of next year there will be no competitive handicap in the 1996 law. That's the choice of this government. Why do we do that? We do this for employment, for jobs and for the welfare and prosperity of this nation. That is the commitment and that is what they (point to the opposition) totally, totally ignore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u89	Unfortunately, Mr Dewael, you are not impressed at all. You can wave and stand up, but so can I. How about I teach you a little bit? Maybe that'll impress you and take it. Firstly, Mr Dewael, if you have to go back to the 80s today to defend why you're doing the index jump, I'll take off my hat. I'm still a young lady, but do you know how people remember the '80s? They remember it as a time of crisis, of surrender, of poverty. You now want to bring back the 80s to go through the index jump today. Secondly, you say that the government carries out the welfare envelope at 100%. First of all, you only do that for 80%. Secondly, Mr Dewael, if you say that, you must also tell us everything and be honest. The wealth envelope has always been at the top of the index in the past, at the top of the index! I can't hear you deny that, because it's the truth. What does the government do? It shall enter an index jump of 2 %. 2 % less! Don't tell me people don't feel that. And then you use the welfare envelope to claim that the government is making social corrections. I don't know: 2 % and 0.8 % still yield a minus. Thirdly, you are arguing that the Socialists have beaten the index under Vande Lanotte. What was done by the previous government? I know and you also know that wages have been indexed by the previous government, but I also know that the electricity bill was much lower than it is now. Now she's going up. What is the purpose of the index? If prices rise, the index must ensure that wages also rise so that purchasing power is maintained. Then what went so wrong under the previous government? Please don't tell me that. Mr. Beke, excuse me for standing up, but that has more influence. I really don't understand. I'm serious. It can't be anymore. Who's supposed to believe people now? The index jump will be discussed today and it will be approved tomorrow. CD&V says on the sidewalk to the press that if revenues do not increase, it is normal that rental prices do not rise either. There's nothing in it today. Any party may have its opinion. Today the index jump of 2 % is discussed. The N-VA actually wants to abolish automatic indexation. You say here that any party outside the government can say what it wants. Then who will support the coalition agreement? Then who are people supposed to believe? It's coming, you say. In the past, you also promised that there would be no index jump. Today we'll discuss him. I think it is fair that you admit that he will hurt and that you will not approve him with great will. Please stop it. Citizen at home can't follow anymore. Every week a different version is told and when you come to Parliament, you all of a sudden know the coalition agreement by heart. Then you come up with passages from the coalition agreement. You say that it says that the automatic index is not being tampered with. Then stop it! If you are one strong team, bring one and the same message! That is good governance, that is what the citizens understand at home, not what you are doing now, that is to say, hot and cold at the same time!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u90	Mr President, in view of Mrs Kitir's excellent performance, I am not going to add any more but simply resume the debate where it was just before her speech. What is the position of the N-VA on the wage indexation system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u91	Everyone who knows me knows I like intellectual honesty. Mr Dewael, what always strikes me is that it seems that socialists cannot do anything right. We are often accused that we did nothing in the previous government, that we did not want to change anything and that we did not want to look at reality, and that we have just changed a lot of things. Luckily, ladies and gentlemen, because you are now taking advantage of this. We did consult with the social partners. Was that easy? No. It is always said that we followed the trade unions without hesitation. This is obviously not the case, because we have taken a number of measures, including in terms of competitiveness. What I certainly do not understand is that Prime Minister Bourgeois has said that so much has never been exported from Flanders abroad. What about competitiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u92	Mrs Kitir, when Ford Genk was closed, you gave a speech from the chair that left a deep impression on everyone. You said, quite rightly, with tears in your eyes, "Mr Prime Minister, what the hell are we going to do about this?' In the meantime, this Parliament has taken several measures. The essence of this coalition agreement is to answer the question you asked at the time, how are we going to provide jobs and jobs? We have voted here on the destabilized zones. Everything discussed here, focusing on reducing the employer's contribution, today's index jump and indeed socially corrected, is for one thing, in particular employment. We want to focus on jobs, provide security for people who have a job today and give future opportunities to those who do not have a job today so that they can find one tomorrow. That is what we have committed ourselves to in the coalition agreement. I say it for the third time in this plenary session, no, CD&V has not committed itself to abolishing the index, not in the campaign, not during the negotiations or for the following years. Those looking for partners will have to look elsewhere because they will not find a partner at CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u93	Mr Beke, when I asked that question, it was not about the measures you are now putting on the table, because the people at Ford had also turned in 12% so that they would keep their jobs. Today you come up with the same same proposal to turn in all 2 % so that you can make sure the jobs are kept. That's not the question I asked. You say that during the election campaign you never said that you would abolish the index, that that point is not in the government agreement and that you will not do it either. The index jump was also not an item in your program, but still enter it today! How can I still believe you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u94	Mr Beke, I did not find the way in which you countered Mrs Kitir's words to be classy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u95	(...)!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u96	Mrs. Demir, I'm allowed to find that, aren't I? I didn't think that was your finest remark, Mr Beke, but it's very strange that you said in the campaign that you would not do so at all about what you're presenting today as an answer to the concerns of Ford Genk's employees. You dare to tell Mrs Kitir that this is the answer to her question at the time. That's what you say today. During the election campaign, you said you would not do that at all. There's a lot of difference between those two positions. So it is perfectly normal for Mr Kitir, myself and people outside of this House, people who are very close to their party, to wonder what the next step is. There would be no index jump and no other measures, but they will come anyway. Today, particularly today, the new debate is being opened. Apart from the debate between the majority and the opposition, Mr Beke, the following. If I am not mistaken, you have studied human sciences, so you have spent a lot of time studying politics and all that is related to it. Surely you agree with me that the N-VA's double march is impossible? I've just seen the photos of the election campaign that started. I also refer to the démarche on automatic wage indexation. It can't be. We cannot accept that. That is a mortgage on the prosperity and stability of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u97	Mr Calvo, I will return to the coalition agreement. There is nothing in it about the abolition of the index, nothing. The N-VA can say what it wants in its programme. We will not therefore implement this abolition either. Mr Calvo, what is being asked here in essence is the following. That is why I also referred to the time when the Chamber held a plenary debate here after the conclusion of Ford Genk. At that time, Mrs Kitir and many other groups said that they wanted to make an effort. They wanted to turn in. They wanted solidarity from the people who work, if that can create jobs again. Here we are talking about 0.4%, just like the previous government. That is what is ultimately demanded, with all the compensations to which Mr Dewael referred. It is an effort of 0.4% of our prosperity to guarantee the jobs and future of thousands of families. That is, in essence, what we need to vote on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u98	Mr Beke, I am extremely surprised at the way in which you link the current discussion with the Ford Genk disaster and other companies. If I'm all right with you, you're telling us that if we do the index jump, you and the employers are going to make sure that there's no business failure anymore! I find that the connection you made with Ford Genk is obviously not acceptable. You claim that the competitive shock that companies urgently need will occur with this index jump, but you know that's not true! The competitive shock that businesses, employers and SMEs expect is obviously quite different. We will be able to obtain it through tax reform, by reducing the cost of work, through the issue of employer contributions. This index jump is not a suppression of wage increases but an adaptation to the evolution of the cost of living. You're not going to make us believe that if we had made an index jump earlier, Ford Genk wouldn't have ended up in the situation we know or that other companies wouldn't have closed their doors. You have made this connection, I find it surprising and frankly quite pitiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u99	Mrs. Fonck, I know you understand Dutch better than you do now. Mr Beke did indeed refer to Mrs Kitir's words. We've heard them all. By the way, you used to say it yourself. Then you said you'd turn in to keep jobs. Of course, we cannot guarantee that with the index jump like the other tax cuts launched by the previous governments, there will no longer be any redundancies or bankruptcy. No, politics can't say that. That is not what Mr Beke said either. No one understood it that way. We agree on that. One thing is for sure: if we do nothing, many jobs will disappear abroad, because the labour cost handicap is 2.9 %. We will have to intervene to ensure that as many jobs as possible are preserved and created. Mrs Temmerman, we still have to disagree on how many jobs there will be. We know that the calculations are very different, and that the National Bank has different calculations than the Planning Bureau, let us not discuss them, but it is clear that we will have to take measures to keep jobs here and to improve the competitiveness of companies to create jobs. Tell the unemployed or workers who are in danger of losing their jobs: no, we will do nothing, we will watch while you risk losing your job. You may not know, Mrs Temmerman, but poverty among the unemployed is 46%. What is the best buffer against poverty? Get them back to work. We must make every effort to do so. Will we ever be able to get everyone to work? I'm not naive either. We do, however, have the ambition to help more people get a job and create more jobs. We shall do so by all means possible. The index jump is one means, as well as other means such as appropriate training and guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u100	As the debate continues, I would first like to return to what Mr Dewael has said, because finally he has spoken of the Martens-Gol years as some can speak of the blessed times of the colonies. Can I just say again that alongside the effects on debt caused by the Martens-Gol measures, there has been, with successive index jumps, an extremely large increase in unemployment? From 1981 to 1985, the number of full-time unemployed increased from 415,000 to almost 500,000, an increase of 20 per cent. This must be recalled. Turning to Mr Beke, of course, in the face of social tragedies, whatever they are, whether Ford Genk, the steel industry in Wallonia or anywhere else in the country, governments have tried to take measures to support employment, to support businesses. At some point, it was, in negotiations with the Regions, for example, a support to reduce the burden on ongoing work. In particular, during the last parliamentary term, what we did was a competitiveness pact in which social/management contributions were reduced in tranches, with a desire to make them, in part, a structural reduction in burdens and, in part, a reduction linked to job creation. Every time we intervened in the face of social tragedies such as those mentioned by Mrs Kitir, our answer was to say that our companies obviously had to be supported, but without undermining the position of the workers. On the contrary, since, on the occasion of the competitiveness pact, what has been done in particular, is to increase low wages. So we both helped businesses and increased low wages. What is not acceptable in what you are currently proposing is that support for certain companies. As you know, a whole series of companies have said that they are not interested in index jumps, because they will have a direct short-term effect on consumption, which will pose a problem for their economic position. What is unbearable with this is that we support companies at the expense of workers. That's what you're being blamed for! As the Plan Office has said, there will be a general impoverishment of the population when there are alternative measures to be proposed. When you say it was in the government agreement, I understand it well: it was a compromise. Everybody's always done it. I would never have accepted this one, but I understand. On the other hand, when you try to justify yourself by saying that this is a good proposal, since it would be business support, that is not correct. You add that, according to the analysis of the Plan Office, no purchasing power problems will arise. That is not true, because you are mixing this measure with those which were part of the Competitiveness Pact. So you're saying a counter-truth, Mr. Beke. What you are proposing here is simply unfair, unacceptable and in no way solves the wage handicap. With the competitiveness pact, we reduced the margin from 2.9 to 1.8. Moreover, with the three reference countries, we are removing it without the index jump. As I said, you express a willingness to respond to the demand of the N-VA by weakening the purchasing power of households.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u101	Mrs Lanjri, may I remind you that the unemployed, who seem to be so concerned about you, also get an index jump through your measures. You say that you will compensate for this, but we all know that these compensations are inadequate. Secondly, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Demir wants the unemployed to feel poverty because then they will be looking for work. Perhaps you should explain to your colleague Demir what living in poverty means. There has just been talk of poverty in the 1980s. I'm a kid from the '80s. I was unemployed for years. I just graduated, I had two kids and I didn't have a job. I can assure you that I know what poverty is and what it means not to find a job. All the measures taken at that time for the private sector have not been successful for me and for many of my fellow-countrymen. It's only after that that things have changed. By the way, let's please stop talking about the '80s. We don't live in the '80s anymore. It's a different situation now. Mrs. Lanjri, you're talking about doing nothing. We have already made many proposals here. Doing nothing is absolutely not an option for us. This is also what Mrs Kitir said in the Chair. Doing nothing is not an option! However, the question is what is being done and who pays for it. Your party has said that the burden must be distributed fairly. Is this fair? No, because it's just the families that pay. You will now refer again to the tax shift. However, there is no such thing at the moment. We still have to wait for that, and at the moment you are putting all the burdens on families. That's unfair. I'll come to another election promise you broke. You said that not wages but the burden on those wages is too high. With the index jump, however, you bring wages down in order to reduce the burden on wages. Mrs Lanjri, I am sorry, but % does mean lowering wages. For that one should not be a professor of mathematics. In fact, I find it scandalous that you dare to say here that the unemployed will be better off with an index jump. I'm sorry, but maybe you should get in touch with your constituents a little bit more. I'd recommend it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u102	There are many interruptions and I have no objection to them, but please speak one after the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u103	My words are twisted. Unemployed people improve when there is work, but this requires creating work and putting it to work. That's what I said. Don't twist my words.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u104	Please intervene one after the other. Mrs Demir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u105	Mr President, I listened very carefully and I did so in committee. Mrs Onkelinx, you say that there will be a general impoverishment of the population. Mrs Temmerman says I want to push the unemployed into poverty. Who wants to push the unemployed into poverty in this country? If we look at the poverty figures, in Flanders 10%, in Wallonia 25%. Mrs Onkelinx, 25% of the Walloon population lives in poverty. For Brussels, that is 40%. These are the bare figures and the result of 30 years of PS policy. That's a policy I don't choose. I want us to guide the unemployed towards work. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u106	No, you want to do that, along with the socialist comrades. Look at the figures, 25% of Walloon people live in poverty and 40% for Brussels. That's outrageous. This is the result of 30 years of PS policy. What we want to do with this measure, with the index jump, is create jobs. This has been said here many times by the majority parties, but you do not want to listen. It is essential to create jobs because that is the best guarantee against poverty. You may not want to believe it, Mrs Temmerman, but the best guarantee against poverty is not unemployment benefit. That's the PS's policy along with sp.a. No, the best guarantee against poverty is work, and that's what this government is going to do. We are committed to job creation, including through the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u107	Mrs Demir, you may say a lot, but I am a socialist and I have devoted a great deal to activation policy, and I have always said that having a job is very important for the integration of people, not just in financial terms but in many aspects. That generalization, I find far beyond that. However, I am pleased that you say that we must ensure that everyone can have a job and that it is well prepared. I hope your fellow party member in the Flemish government, Minister Muyters, will do something for that. In the past, he hasn't done much for that. And that's what it turns out to be in this period, too, that it's not fat. You talk a lot, but there isn't much of a result. Finally, you want to ensure that many people are unemployed and that many people are thrown away so that we move back to the absolutely free market. I have some experience in negotiating with the social partners. The Di Rupo government has made a great deal of efforts to reduce labour costs, not with regard to the net wages of the people, but with regard to gross wages, which mainly included a share of employers. We have earmarked funds for this. The current government has postponed that. That is your political responsibility. I don't want to get involved in that, I'm just noticing it. When one discusses with employers about making efforts, one finds, for the record, that it is never enough for employers. From their point of view, I can still understand that they say something like that. If the government says that it is prepared to reduce labour costs on condition that jobs are created and that a guarantee is required, it will not, however, be given. There is one system in which we have reduced labour costs. That's the social Maribel. Every euro invested in it has created jobs. For all the other systems, I'd like to see if jobs have been created. Do you know what people say when they ask to prove it? It is said that fewer companies have gone bankrupt and fewer jobs have disappeared. This has been the effect of reducing labour costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u108	Mr President, I should like to address the Minister for Employment in the hope that he has not swallowed all the snakes, all the lies of the N-VA on the economic diagnosis of Belgium. Indeed, Mr. Van Overtveldt justified the index jump by stating that our economy accounts for 80% of exports. In other words, exports would account for 80% of our GDP. This explanation is obviously a little reductive in view of the work of the National Bank, notably published in the Economic Review of September 2014. They show that when the value of the exported goods is removed, the value of the imported goods that contributed to the production of the export, the net value added at export represents 30% of GDP. That means that our economy is, for 70%, an internal economy. As far as jobs are concerned, the National Bank sets the number of jobs directly or indirectly related to exports at 29%. In doing so, 70% of jobs are linked to the domestic economy. However, the central justification for index jumps is the competitiveness of export firms. But if we refer to the figures of the National Bank, we can see that with this argument, 70% of workers who have nothing to do with exports are ultimately penalized. That is why your policy – and I know you are a man of common sense – is based on a misguided, false diagnosis. You're making an error of analysis that will justify a wage injustice. My colleague Frédéric Daerden will develop the negative effects of this policy on domestic consumption or demand. More fundamentally, companies that are not affected by this export wage competitiveness – in any case, this is reflected in the general budget statement – will record an increase in their primary incomes. In other words, roughly, you're going to increase the profits of shareholders. That's what your policy is going to be, Mr. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u109	Mr President, I will simply reply to Mrs Demir. Hunt the natural, he returns to the gallop. There is nothing she can do about it: at some point she is going to do it, she is going to let go both in committee and in plenary. She shoots a salve against the Walloons and the Brussels, in the most despicable way. May I remind you that Cockerill's successive bosses were not socialists? The difficulties encountered by the steel industry in Belgium and at European level are certainly not the responsibility of the Socialists. We have experienced difficulties with many companies, as Flanders has experienced before. May I remind you that, in my family, there were a lot of workers who were dying of misery in Flanders and who came to look for work in Wallonia and Cockerill society? Good if Flanders has recovered! I find this, of course, beautiful, just like Wallonia and Brussels are getting back on track. Your foolish and simplifying speeches are not such as to re-establish our country as a whole, but to fuel more and more hatred among the workers of the different Communities. It only serves your partisan interests, and not the economic and social growth of our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u110	Mr President, I promised to be brief. I had also prepared only 2.5 leaves. However, this is the advantage of being the chairman of the N-VA's political group. I really don't have to prepare much to stand here for a very long time. I had arrived about an hour ago at the penultimate paragraph of what I wanted to give. In the meantime, I've heard a number of things. Mrs Kitir, there is an indexing of benefits and pensions for the elderly. I would like to clarify that. Finally, I have heard Mr Dewael refer to the 1980s. I also heard him refer to Guy Mathot. Despite the youthful age of both of us, we have experienced the 1980s quite consciously. There was then a gap in the budget itself. It would go away on its own. Now the jobs are gone by themselves. They'll come back on their own. That seems to be the reasoning that is being followed. The jobs will be gone by themselves and will come back on their own. Mrs Temmerman, whatever I remember from the 1980s, is indeed that they were difficult years. However, after the measures taken by the Martens-Gol governments, Belgium has re-established economic growth and prosperity. That was done, among other things, by the index jumps that were taken at the time. That is also what we, the N-VA, as loyal partners in the current government, want, especially with private job creation. That's the engine for progress for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u111	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all the attempts of the centre-left, left-wing and far-left opposition to try to defeat the vote on the employment promotion bill will not have been successful. The determination of the government and the majority groups in supporting job creation, restoring our competitiveness and safeguarding our social security has remained intact. Contrary to what some claim, the decision to skip the index and thereby reduce our country's heavy wage disadvantage with neighbouring countries is not a whim but an absolute necessity for our economy and for job creation. Reducing wage disadvantage is an absolute necessity. Among other things, the law aims to restore our deteriorating competitiveness. Today, the competitiveness of our companies is fiercely competed with that of neighbouring countries, especially because of a severe wage disadvantage of almost 3% according to the latest estimates of the Central Economic Council. But other estimates, such as the "Looking at the Economy" study by the Plan Office, the National Bank, the Central Economic Council and the SPF Economie experts, which analyse the overall long-term figures – including wage slips before 1996, the date of the law to safeguard competitiveness – reach a wage disadvantage of 16.5%. When we objectively analyse the figures, we find that according to a recent Eurostat ranking – Mr Laaouej, you will agree: Eurostat has sufficient credibility – the Belgian industry has a wage cost of 44 euros, the highest in Europe and probably in the world, when the European Union's hourly average is 25 euros. Belgium, with 44 euros, is at the top of the ranking ahead of Denmark (42 euros), Sweden (41 euros), Germany (37 euros), France (37 euros) and Luxembourg (32 euros). For more than two hours, I heard opposition groups contest the wage disability. Eurostat is very clear. No need to be a great clerk to understand that, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u112	Mr Clarinval, I know that you are a very curious person and that you are interested in a whole series of things. You certainly had to look at the report of the group of experts on competitiveness, a group set up under the previous legislature. Do you remember that in this report, given in 2013, the wage subsidies estimated at over EUR 11 billion per year had been taken into account? On the basis of this consideration, wage differentials had become almost zero for certain sectors and minimal for all sectors of the Belgian economy. Have you considered this in your analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u113	Indeed, and you are in part right. I said wage disability was 16.5% for some and 3% for others. Including the cost reductions can reduce from 16.5 to 3 per cent, but it depends on the sectors. Mr Laaouej, you are also a very curious person, so you have certainly read this study to the end and you will have seen that a whole series of expenses are in fact non-payments of professional discount which are not taken into account in terms of competitiveness. Social Maribels, service titles and long-term unemployed measures have absolutely nothing to do with the competitiveness of our businesses. The very heavy wage disadvantage in Belgium is between 3 and 16%. That's the reality of the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u114	Mr Clarinval, in your example, let us take the situation in which someone earns EUR 100 for his hour at home and elsewhere a little more since there would be less perception, i.e. 110 or 116 depending on the figure we keep. With these 116 or 110 euros, this person who earns a little more for the same work as at home has to pay for his medicines, for his care in the hospital, for his roads, for his schools and for all the services that Belgium, its Regions and its Communities finance thanks to the collection of taxes and social contributions. Is there not a lack of complete aspects in your reasoning that totally skew your demonstration? You take only one of the two columns, that of perception that creates solidarity and services. Elsewhere, these same services, you have to pay them out of your pocket.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u115	Mr Nollet, I agree, if we compare Belgian wages with countries where social security is very low, I am thinking of China or India or other countries, that this is a time lag. But the figures I'm talking about concern the European Union. We need to know that we are, for example, more expensive than Denmark, Sweden and Germany. These countries are not countries with failing social security, I believe. However, these countries manage to have social security as effective or even better than ours, with lower wage costs. So your demonstration is not on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u116	Take your overall figures back, because I talked about social security and social contributions, on the one hand, and taxation, on the other, to get an overview. Compare our situation with the situation in the Nordic countries you are talking about and look at the OECD studies: Sweden – Denmark are, broadly speaking, in the same proportion as ours compared to a similar service situation. But take France, for example. When you go to France, I suppose you're paying for your highways?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u117	With Wallonia, we will soon pay them too, obviously, if I followed the Walloon news well. In Flanders too!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u118	I don't have a problem with that. It won't be any different in Wallonia and Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u119	For businesses, it's going to be very expensive. I could talk about the tax per kilometer on the trucks, it costs a bridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u120	Look at this situation also in neighbouring countries, taking into account the services offered. This is where a real comparison can be made. Today, you are not able to demonstrate that, from the Belgian point of view, if you take both columns, we are disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u121	However, I would like to quote the expert report in the text: "It can be concluded at this stage that, from 1996 to 2011, if all wage subsidies are deducted from the hourly wage cost, the modified wage gap is close to 0.5%". There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u122	Mr Laaouej, I agree, but you forget the pre-1996 years. You know very well that it is the years before the law to safeguard competitiveness that are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u123	What determines competitiveness is what is happening now, Mr Clarinval, is not what happened ten years or twenty years ago, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u124	The Eurostat team calculates before 1996. The wage handicap, it did not occur last year, it has been done as and every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u125	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u126	I take Eurostat's figures, so it's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u128	I read the expert report, I don't do anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u129	Eurostat figures are very clear. If we take the neighbouring countries, Mr Nollet, we can have a very comparable basis, since social security in Germany, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Netherlands and France is substantially the same as at home. I therefore think that everyone agrees that Belgium is the country where gross wages are the highest in the world, according to Eurostat figures. It was my colleague Foret who blew me in the ear during the many hours of debate in committee, where we heard the opposition voice, we had the impression of hearing the left and the far left that we were facing a denial of reality: you could not accept the fact that Belgium had the highest burdens on the work in the world. The jump in index will help reduce this handicap and support existing jobs. According to the estimates of the National Bank - even if there are other less ambitious estimates mentioned in the debate, but I am optimistic in nature and I think the National Bank is right - the jump in index should create nearly 33,000 new jobs, which is not negligible, not to mention the jobs we have retained and which will not have been relocated. On the other hand, to some colleagues of the Socialist Party who seem to have the short memory and who cry out for injustice by making themselves the spokespersons of the most conservative trade union movements, in particular through a common front that allows the masks to be dropped, thus demonstrating that some trade unions play a game more political than trade unionist, I would like to remind those colleagues of the PS that they have applied in the past a certain form of jump of index. Indeed, under the Di Rupo government, the decision was taken to freeze wages, a jump in index which did not bear the name but which possessed all the characteristics. It is necessary to add the modification of the basket of products making up the index. These two decisions have had a direct impact on consumer price developments. Why? Because there, too, it was a necessity. When you are in charge of a country that wants to be united, you need to know how to take difficult measures, especially in the economic and budgetary context that we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u130	I did not specifically want to speak about the last part of Mr Clarinval's speech, except that I do not deny to the organisations representing workers a political role in the noble sense of the term, i.e. to bring workers together, to give opinions on the functioning of society in general and social security in particular and to challenge choices which do not go in the direction of greater solidarity between workers and greater economic efficiency. Above all, I wanted to question Mr.Clarinval on two related aspects of his reasoning. You refer, like others before you and like the minister, to the study of the National Bank which announces the automatic creation of a few thousand jobs. I would like to ask you the same question that Mr Vuye asked. Yes, I know conscientious entrepreneurs who will turn this advantage into cost, job maintenance or business creation, but I also see an increasingly financialized economic mode, with increasing pressure from shareholders and financial markets, which tends to turn its lowest costs into additional dividends. How do you feel that these cost reductions will automatically contribute to job creation? Why do you refuse, as you have refused in relation to other measures, to condition this aid granted to companies with specific commitments, beyond moral commitments, on job creation? In addition, have you had a thought or have you done a small cost-benefit calculation, since in your speeches you are often in the criticism of inconsiderate spending? What is the cost of this measure per job created? What is the total cost to public finances of the various measures that lead the National Bank to estimate that there will be 30,000 jobs created per job created? It is enormous, Mr.Clarinval, while there are other much more qualitative measures to be activated. A third point I would like to ask you about is the wage cost that you highlight. There's a way to meet her differently. This is the whole issue of the tax shift debate against which some parties are more advanced than yours, at least in speeches. Are you ready to turn some of the social contributions that make up the cost of labour into an income contribution, for example, capital, or will you continue to defend those who speculate and earn a lot of money through their investments in the financial markets by paying far fewer contributions than those who work? I think it is in this way that we will achieve a reduction in the cost of work that will be compensated for having social security systems that continue to function, especially in relation to the cost of ageing, because of the increasing number of elderly people in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u131	Mr Gilkinet, to answer your first question. I trust companies. That is probably the difference between us. I know you don't hire a worker for the pleasure of hiring a worker and you don't fire a worker for the pleasure of firing him. Economic conditions allow an undertaking to hire or require it to terminate. It is not a choice imposed by the State that will say that such an undertaking must engage and that such an undertaking must terminate. Mr Dewael made it very clear earlier that there were two visions of the economy. Clearly, Mr Gilkinet, we are not in the same vision and trust in business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u132	M. Van Hees souhaite intervenir.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u133	Mr. Van Hees doesn't have the same vision either!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u134	Mr Clarinval is in the process of responding to Mr Gilkinet, I was not asking for the floor right away, but I take this opportunity to tell him that the competitiveness which he constantly invokes, I call this a transfer of income from work to income from capital. This is not the first time in Belgium that a government has taken such an index measure. But what can be taken as an assessment of what has been done in the past? It has never been proven that this has had a positive effect on employment! Why? Because it has a negative effect on consumption. You lower workers' incomes, it necessarily has a negative effect on consumption and rather than boost economic growth, this measure will slow it down. Why use an index jump that will curb consumption? Could you not, in order to improve Belgium's competitive position, make a dividend leap rather than an index jump? Tell companies that this year, dividends will no longer be distributed! Wouldn't that be a better way to do it? This would make it possible not to affect the consumption of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u135	This question is similar to the one asked by Mr Gilkinet on the tax shift. Indeed, as you say, I think there is a problem with the cost of work and a shift tax is needed to reduce the burden on work. The current debate in the government is being conducted to find the best compensation possible. You will understand that I am not able to give you the chosen recipes, but there are several possible leads. You read them in the press. We are very much in favour of the earliest possible implementation of this tax shift and the transfer of part of the reduction in labour costs. I didn't say anything about dividends. I said tax shift. There's some leads on the table. The government will choose the best possible path, I have no doubt. There are several, Mr. Nollet. I'm not here to talk about the tax shift. When we are in charge of a country that wants to be united, we need to know how to take difficult measures, especially in the economic and budgetary context that we know. Thanks to corrective measures, index jumping will only have a limited impact on the purchasing power of the most vulnerable. It will not be 2% but will be more or less 1% because it is moderated by the lowest tax measures among us, such as the increase in the flat-rate amount of tax for professional expenses. Earlier, Mr.Laaouej, you found it to be pellicular or anecdotal, but the amount of these lump-sum reductions is 450 million in 2015 and nearly 1 billion in 2016. These are important figures that will be discounted in the pocket of workers who pay taxes, who will see a reduction in their taxes. This will make it possible to discount part of the puncture of the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u136	The 900 million that spans several years will not compensate for the almost 2.5 billion that represents the total salary loss of the index jump. This will also not compensate for the non-indexation of tax reductions on replacement income, which will hit pensioners and sick people in full swing. Nor will this compensate for planned or future increases in excise duties. Unfortunately, your increase in lump sum costs will not compensate for the loss of disposable income for both wage earners and recipients. What you're saying is not fair!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u137	I agree with you, that will not compensate for everything. It is the lowest that will be protected as this lump-sum reduction will target those with the lowest incomes. You add to this the 127 million euros spent on low wages thanks to the well-being envelope and for the most fragile of us, there will be almost no impact. On the other hand, for large wages, there will be an impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u138	Mr. Clarinval, where do you stand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u139	I'm not able to tell you, every tax situation is different. The weakest of us will be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u140	Mr Clarinval, some people will be compensated for their almost complete index jump with the flat fee. But when I hear you say that all small and medium-sized wages will be compensated...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u141	I'm talking about the low wages and the weakest of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u142	At the same time, you say that the very big wages will not be compensated. However, between the very small and the large, we find the middle class. Through Wouter Beke's mouth, the CD&V had the honesty to recognize that there would indeed be a significant impact on revenues. For the first time, and this is an evolution, the CD&V has clearly acknowledged this. In addition to the workers, we must also mention pensioners. Go and calculate the income of the people you meet. Even if you try to reassure us by means of figures, explaining that the weakest of us will receive compensation, the reality is quite different. Mr Clarinval, as I said earlier, but you would have to keep it: if the compensation were so great, the Finance Inspectorate would obviously not demonstrate in the long term the seriousness of the revenue reduction. This means that the revenue consequences will be significant and that revenue for the State will decrease. These are not elements that serve to make opposition for the pleasure of countering. They are objective. You must therefore stop saying that this offset to this smart index jump will allow you not to touch income and avoid a loss of purchasing power. That's not true. Moreover, I would point out that indexation is not a mechanism for raising wages, but rather for adapting them to changes in the cost of living. You seem to explain to us today that an index jump is fundamental in terms of the competitiveness of companies and that it will make it possible to catch up – you said "partly" – the wage handicap. It's fun to see that before the election, you refused to skip the index. What does that mean? In a year, has the world changed? All of a sudden, you explain to us today, even as you said the opposite eleven months ago, that this index jump will allow you a competitive shock. You're not gonna get it with an index jump. This is not going to satisfy employers. Besides, you just have to listen to them. I imagine you're in contact with them. Clearly, whether on the Dutch-speaking side or on the French-speaking side, they all say the same thing. SMEs, the Walloon Union of Enterprises, the Union of Middle Classes, the NIS, economists like Bruno Colmant say that we are almost in deflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u143	That's not true. Some employers speak in their personal capacity. I am sure that there is a way to find workers who are in favour of index jumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u144	Mr Clarinval, you will have the opportunity to react in a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u145	Should progress be made on the competitiveness of enterprises? Yes! It's fundamental. Will the index jump allow you to get a competitive shock even though we are in near deflation? The answer is no. On the other hand, could alternative measures to work on the competitiveness of companies have allowed you to reach it, that we can do it? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u146	This contributes to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u147	But then the path was completely different. We will agree that tax reform is an extremely important path, with significant reductions in social contributions, employers. There were much more interesting leads, both for employers and workers, to get there. You're telling us you're thinking about a shift tax. But every month that passes, we postpone it a little more. I am waiting to see what you have promised us several times before the elections. Since then, we have heard several of you position yourself by announcing a tax shift from the beginning of 2015. Now it's postponed to the summer. I hope it won't be in the holy glinglin. We could have agreed on this because they are really positive alternatives to business competitiveness, where index jumps are likely to be largely counterproductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u148	Mr Clarinval, you are telling us that the index jump is offset by the lump sum charges. We do not agree on the amounts, but I think there is something more fundamental than the question of the amounts, it is to know who will pay this increase in the lump sum costs, which you present as a gift to the workers. It's the workers themselves! You present as a gift something you pay for yourself. If I give you a present at the end of the year and I give you the bill, I'm not sure you'll appreciate the operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u149	I'm having a hard time following you, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u150	On the other hand, for pensioners and recipients of replacement income, it is even worse: not only do they have no lump-sum or occupational expenses, but also the reduction in replacement income has not been indexed. It is therefore a double penalty for pensioners and recipients of replacement income!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u151	I think that Mr Clarinval does not have a good understanding of what compensation mechanisms are.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u152	Mr Gilkinet, your lessons, we are used to receiving them! You can keep them for yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u153	It's not a lesson. I just want to tell you, Mr. Clarinval, that an index jump represents a 2% decrease in income and that, at best, for some of the people concerned as social recipients, there will be a 1% compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u154	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u155	Hence, in total, a loss of income of 1%, including for people who find it difficult to complete the month. So this is only partial compensation; this can be seen in the budget tables which we have been able to reconstruct thanks to the documents obtained at the Court of Auditors. You will realize an economy on the backs of the most fragile.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u156	It's not on the back of the most fragile!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u157	As far as the employees are concerned, as part of the electoral campaign, you defended the idea of raising the tax-exempt quota in tax matters, because, in fact, too many taxes are being paid right away. That's not the way you've chosen here. You have decided to increase the deductible professional lump-sum fees. Why? Because this is not intended, as their name indicates, for the social beneficiaries, but only for the workers. For them included, this will only partially offset the loss of income associated with index jump. Moreover, unpaid wages are not subject to payment of social contributions and therefore to the creation of social security rights. As has been done in various interviews with members of the majority or in the framework of the Social Affairs Committee, you come here proudly to say that this is an intelligent index jump, which you have compensated for. Now, that's all but the truth. In total, the most fragile in society will lose and have even more difficult endings. So they're going to consume less, which won't turn the economy around. You also definance social security, which is highlighted by the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate which you do not want to communicate to us in its entirety. So there's a negative snowball effect. You're creating a vicious circle despite what you're announcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u158	Mrs Fonck, I have just given one example. You said that we do something for the lowest benefits, but not for the lowest pensions. That's not true, of course. In the coalition agreement, the government has clearly set out the ambition to raise all benefits and pensions to the poverty line. In fact, minimum pensions must be 10% above the poverty line. That is not a vague promise in the coalition agreement, which has already been implemented by the budgets released: EUR 319.5 million for this year and EUR 627.2 million for next year. All minimum pensions will also be increased by 2.3 %. The oldest pensions receive 1 % extra. We also equalize the minimum pension of employees and self-employed persons. This means that the self-employed will receive 20%. Pensioners also receive a holiday allowance of 6.9 % higher. Mrs Fonck, I would just like to stress that, as Mr Clarinval would say, it is not just a question of increasing benefits, but also, of course, a further increase in pensions. You must admit that this is the first time that the government agreement has set out the ambition to increase benefits and pensions beyond the poverty line. There's still a lot of catching up to do. Therefore, the welfare envelope budget has been increased from 60 % to 100 %. Let us not discuss percentage, but mention the figures: we plan to invest EUR 1.5 billion by 2019 in raising the lowest benefits and pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u159	Mr President, I was a little surprised to hear what Mrs Fonck said. Indeed, she throws away what she loved in the past. In the past, she made three index jumps without compensation. Here we make a jump with compensation. In the past, let's sit down! Yet she is not socialist, not yet! In addition, I would like to point out that in a debate held by the Christian Workers' Movement before the elections, it stated that a tax on wealth was needed in Belgium, which, according to its own terms at the time, would bring in 2 billion euros, while it brought in 4 billion euros in France, for a country of 65 million inhabitants. Finally, I regret that Mrs Fonck was not present this afternoon at the Committee on Infrastructure and Public Enterprises. Mrs. Poncelet was there. We received Ms. Leroy and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Proximus-Belgacom. What did Mrs Leroy say, of which we appreciate all the qualities of manager? She said that the index jump was going to bring down EUR 25 million to Proximus-Belgacom and that thanks to that, while there was a differential in the cost of wages at Proximus-Belgacom compared to its competitors (32% versus 24%), this competition deficit was going to decrease in part. Mrs Fonck, it is very unfortunate that you were not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u160	Mr President, you will personally witness the fact that I cannot be in the Infrastructure Committee if I am here! Mr. Flahaux, your remarks are pretty ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u161	(...) (words deleted at the request of the President)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u162	Mr President, I am going to stay there and I will continue the debate with Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u163	Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Fonck that, like Wouter Beke, I have the honesty to admit that everything is not compensated. I said the compensation was total for the weakest of us. On the other hand, it is true that the measure will have an impact on those who receive higher wages. To say otherwise would be to lie! That being said, Mr. Laaouej, I have already told you that I did not know the level of the bar. The latter varies according to the tax situation of the municipality in which you live. In short, the bar is variable. It is therefore impossible to know at what level the threshold will be exceeded. But I can tell you that the weak ones will be protected. As far as the middle class, Mrs Fonck, is concerned, it takes several forms. It cannot therefore be said that it will be impacted in a unique way. The situation will vary depending on whether you are an official, independent, etc. It is therefore not possible to say what the impact of the measure will be on the middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u164	Mr President, we were told about smart index jumps with the application of the necessary corrections for some workers. Minister, where are you putting the bar? Who will receive compensation through an increase in flat-rate charges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u165	There is a package of 250 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u166	What is the income concerned? We'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u167	Mr. Minister will respond later. That's how I get to the MR program. We have always said that it is necessary to reduce the burden on work. We are therefore consistent in that this measure will effectively reduce the burden on work. It is clear, Mr Laaouej, that this is not enough and that we must go further. However, this is a first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u168	Mr President, I would like to speak because I have heard one of the members of this House speak of one of his colleagues as "ridicule". You are the Speaker of the House of Representatives. I ask you to have these comments deleted from the minutes of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u169	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u170	The debate on index leaps has focused on other issues, such as the budget for family allowances transferred to federated entities or the content of the welfare envelope that has just been discussed. Here too, I wish to reaffirm the government's words. The allocated budgets are allocated and transferred in full. The application or non-application of an index jump for these subjects will therefore be subject to the choice made by the federated entities. I would like to tell you here the positive impact of the index jump for federated entities. I am thinking, among other things, of the Walloon Region or the French Community. If the parties that make up the Walloon government are consistent with themselves, will they give back to the workers of the French Community the gains obtained by the index jump? If you're right in your boots, you have to do it! Will you do it, Mrs. Onkelinx?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u171	[[...]] [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u172	Colleagues, a little silence. Mrs Fonck has asked for the floor. Let's hear Mrs. Fonck!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u173	Mr Clarinval, when I hear you plead – and this is not the first time that a member of the MR has done so, not only in this House but also in the media – that at the level of federated entities, Regions and Communities, income is changed and worked in a differentiated way, I am forced to conclude here that the MR is pushing for the regionalisation of competences like this. You tell us that public servants can correct the index jump at the level of federated entities. This means regionalizing everything related to social security and wage determination. It is rather surprising, on the part of the MR, whom I understood he was keeping such policies and skills at the federal level! If you encourage us tomorrow to correct wages, this will obviously demonstrate on your part the clear will to regionalize this jurisdiction today federal. I take note of your desire for a differentiated regime based on a federal policy today, your willingness to push the door to further regionalization, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u174	I simply asked whether the CDH, at the regional and community levels, would compensate its staff for the loss of income caused by the index jump. I did not ask to regionalize anything, but I understand from the answers of Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs Fonck that you will do nothing for the staff and to compensate for this impact. So you're not consistent with yourself, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u175	The regionalised income policy is something else!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u176	Mr Clarinval, not content with having committed a budgetary robbery on the occasion of the conclave against the Regions and the Communities of 750 million in opacity and total cowardice, you also want us to assume your budgetary leap of index that we are contesting in its principles, because it relies on mistakes in economic policy analysis, which is itself based on a policy of social and fiscal injustice. You're asking us a lot, Mr. Clarinval. Five minutes of courage! Admit that you do not believe in your own words and tell the rostrum that you will not vote for the index jump! That's what we expect from you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u177	Mr. Laaouej, you've used us to being better! Frankly, you have the capacity, at the regional level, to compensate in one way or another. You don't! I take note of that! Thank you and I move on to the next page!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u178	Mr Clarinval, I asked you a question earlier. I have put forward an argument that you did not think should be answered. Maybe you forgot it. I was referring to the gift I was going to give you at the end of the year. I explained to you that this supposed compensation for index jump through the increase in lump sum costs would be paid by the workers themselves. I have a document here that demonstrates this. I don't know if you know him; it's called "Government Agreement of October 10, 2014". It is written black on white: "The flat-rate deduction of professional expenses, through which the net income from work after tax will increase", and the text adds: "The cost of this increase will be financed, among other things, by excise measures on tobacco and diesel, an extension of the transactions which are subject to VAT". Therefore, it is clearly the workers who will pay this increase in the lump sum fee. How can you say that it compensates for index jumping?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u179	It's not just workers who drive and smoke cigarettes. Everyone's going to contribute. So, Mr Van Hees, you cannot say that this measure will be financed by the workers. It will be done by all smokers and motor vehicle drivers. That's not really an argument. Index jumping is not the only aspect of this bill. The latter also includes a second part, of which we have not talked much, which is related to the harmonization of the status of worker and employee, which was started under the previous government. This includes the salary bill for the training requirement, which is maintained at the 2013–14 level. Contrary to what you said, Mrs Onkelinx, we are not going to give up sanctions against employers who have not made sufficient efforts. You know the file well. Previously, the Minister of Employment had been broken for penalizing everyone, including those companies that had made sufficient efforts. It's not fair. We restore fairness by not punishing in general, but by checking individually.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u180	I didn't say otherwise earlier. I found that a problem had been raised by the College of Experts. You're right: they lack objective criteria to evaluate 1.9%. Instead of addressing this issue in this bill, the government has cleared the situation by removing all sanctions. This is unacceptable since at the same time you have a decrease in the purchasing power of workers and more sanctions for employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u181	Employers have attacked this rule and have won. It was normal for us to cancel that rule. A new rule is going to be...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u182	It was normal for a new rule to be proposed in the bill. Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u183	The new rule is coming. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u184	I would like to speak on this point because the challenges of lifelong learning are also important in terms of the competitiveness of enterprises. On this point, indeed, the Constitutional Court says that, as currently drafted, it is not compatible with articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. But the Constitutional Court absolutely did not say that we had to give up the measure or suspend it provisionally or even definitively – I do not know when we will have a second turn on it. What you have chosen as your position is a choice of ease, that is to say, that of saying: "The Constitutional Court has given an opinion. We don't even want to try to answer it. So we withdraw and like that, we'll see much later." This is indeed a risk that is not negligible where another alternative was possible and immediate, namely to adapt the scheme to comply with articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. It was a bit more demanding. It took a lot of work. It was not unfeasible and it does not take months or years of work. It is a pity as a signal to have chosen the suspension of this device even though you could have adapted it in such a way, it seems to me, quite easy and quickly. This issue of training is even more important in a period of economic crisis as we are experiencing it today, since we know that for a number of workers it is these training courses which will enable them to return to work. Of course, that's what we're all looking for. Beyond the pompous title of job promotion on which we agree, there is all this content which is not coherent, including above all the issue of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u185	We responded to the Court's judgment on an ad hoc basis. A long-term solution will be found. It's in the minister's policy brief. I have no doubt that it will lead to this issue in the months and years to come. This problem needed to be addressed in the short term. It's been settled. A medium- and long-term solution will be found. In the second chapter of this law, Saturday's work in construction is relaxed, allowing to increase from 64 to 96 hours. That's a very good measure. There is also the elimination of the waiting day for workers in the event of incapacity for work, which was also included in the agreement between the social partners and which is given concrete form here. There is also a question of the reduction of employer contributions for annual holidays paid for workers. It was a compensation that was also announced and is being realized here. A whole series of good measures should therefore be stressed. A comprehensive agreement was reached on 30 January and was ratified by eight of the ten social partners. This agreement has been fully endorsed by the Government in this legislation. It is thus demonstrated that social consultation still has all its raison d'être in Belgium and that it is supported by the government. The dialogue has therefore never been broken. On the subject of social concertation, some have struggled in committee and again here earlier to make believe that the employer bank was divided about the index jump or that the government did not respect social concertation. Let me read here, in order to respond clearly and unambiguously to these interventions, part of the editorial by Philippe Godfroid, President of the Union of Middle Classes, in the March 2015 edition of the magazine Union et Action: "The current government has therefore largely respected social consultation, much more than some predecessors who imposed Rosetta plans," – isn't it, Madame Onkelinx – "anti-harassment laws or when one has gone to the axe to harmonize worker-employee status". This simply means, Mr Laaouej, that on social consultation there are two benches: the employer's bench and the union bench. For you, unfortunately, social consultation is simply "does the FGBT agree?" If the FGTB agrees, there is social consultation. If the FGTB disagrees, there is no social consultation. That is how you envisage social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u186	Mr Clarinval, together with all the members of the majority, you can come forward one by one to say that you respect social dialogue and that social dialogue is important to you. However, previous speakers have already confirmed that there has never been any call for social dialogue over the index jump. Never! When it suits you and if you think you like a possible outcome, you will consult the social consultation. If you think it will be difficult in advance and if you want to do what you want, then social dialogue is not important and then suddenly the urgency, the Council of State, counts a thousand and one reasons to explain why social dialogue is not important. Mr Clarinval, I think it is rather sad that you should quote from an article here today to show that the government does respect social dialogue. It would be a good thing if the chairman of the social dialogue had confirmed that this government respects social dialogue. Then you had a point and then you could have brought that up, but not now. You never wanted to know the social partners in the story of the index jump. The social partners have always had the opportunity to discuss commas and points, but never on the subject in itself. So don't tell me you think social dialogue is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u187	I may not have been nuanced enough earlier, but I did not say that the social partners agreed on the index jump. I was talking about the second chapter, the second part. We had the debate earlier, maybe I didn't speak well. It was not necessary to ask the unions for advice on the index jump; thousands of people were seen marching down the street, it was understood that the unions disagreed. We are neither deaf nor blind. As far as the second part is concerned, however, we have respected the point of view of the social partners, be it clear. I was quoting this editorial because in committee some of us used to quote one boss who disagreed, or another who had a different opinion. Indeed, in the employers' world, not everyone is unanimous when measures are taken. There is freedom of expression and it is quite honourable. Nevertheless, all the official bodies that expressed themselves were unanimous in their agreement on the index jump. To say the opposite is to lie. Philippe Godfroid's very clear words put an end to attempts to divide the employer bench. As for the trade union bench, as I said earlier, the existence of the common front PS-FGTB-Solidaris finally allows us to understand that the attitude of some is perhaps guided by particular interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u188	Mr. Clarinval, you're defending the employer's bench, but who have you been elected by? By the employer's bench or by your voters, among whom I imagine that there are also workers, students, pensioners...? Explain to us. Who are you elected by, Mr. Clarinval, by the employer's bench?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u189	If you had waited another minute, I was just going to say that the MR greets the other unions, so not the FGTB, who courageously demonstrated constructive attitudes in the social dialogue. That's where the shade is, Mr. Laaouej. In conclusion, I would like to state that the measures contained in this law are justified and necessary. This law strengthens our solidarity system and contributes to the sustainability of our social security model, while providing an important boost to the competitiveness of our businesses. Finally, it supports our economy and creates new jobs. It is therefore normal, ladies and gentlemen, you had no doubt, that the MR should support this important project for our country's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us today is an important and sensitive subject. Mrs Kitir, we have never under stood that the index jump was certainly not the easiest measure in the coalition agreement. During the government negotiations a lot of water flowed to the sea. It has been negotiated for hours and in the end an agreement has been reached during these negotiations with a view to a single index jump. We supported this because the priority for this government is job creation. Through this index jump one realizes this job creation to an important extent. That is how we ensure economic growth and social progress. We want to give and strengthen companies oxygen, help people work sustainably and at the same time safeguard the financing of our social security. Where else would we get the resources? We must also ensure that our good social security is maintained. That is the commitment of this government policy. That is why, in addition to a reduction in charges, which has already been implemented by the previous government, there is also wage moderation. Unlike the previous government, there is now a limited margin to increase wages. Furthermore, there is indeed the index jump, not easy, I repeat, but still defensible. The cost reduction of EUR 2.6 billion in total should create jobs. As I said earlier, we can differ on this and we see that the figures are different depending on the source. There are very optimistic figures from the VBO that even arrived at the beginning with 40,000 additional jobs. We have the figures of the National Bank talking about the additional measures, the reduction of charges, the flat-rate reduction in professional costs, and the tax and social bonus, which generate 33 000 additional jobs. Even the most pessimistic approach, that of the Planning Bureau, is talking about 28 000 additional jobs. Mrs. Kitir, I'll give you the numbers. The Planning Bureau also says that these additional jobs will, of course, be added to the normal economic growth we also have. A total of 140 000 jobs are covered in four years. Without the index jump, there is also economic growth. No one claims that they wouldn't be there, but any job we can create extra must be created as well. I think we agree on that. We are not just giving the reduction of costs to employers, but because there is a problem with the competitiveness of our companies. According to the Central Council for Business, there is still a wage handicap of 2.9 %. That puts a lot of jobs at risk. You have already spoken about this from this gallery in the past. Many jobs do indeed disappear abroad where labour costs are lower. We must therefore work to further reduce labour costs. That requires resources, a reduction in the burden, to ensure that jobs are maintained here and that we also create additional jobs. I do not think it is antisocial to provide additional jobs, 33 000, 28 000, 40 000, whatever the figure. Every job we create is a good job and ensures that we take people out of poverty. I'm not talking about mini-jobs. I'm talking about full-time jobs. That is what we are in favour of, Mrs Onkelinx. We want to help people get to work in a good way. You know that 46% of the unemployed live in poverty. So we need to help as many people as possible to get a job. We must dare to look each of these people in the eye and say: 'We are doing this for you.' I think there's nothing more social than creating jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u191	Mrs Lanjri, I have a bit of a problem with the reasoning you are building up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u192	Can I finish my reasoning, then, Mr Calvo, because I am not finished?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u193	Mrs Lanjri, I understand that it is a difficult day for you and you have also begun to say that it is a difficult measure, that it is not a cool one. CD&V is not really for that, but it is part of a political balance. That's what you started with. Afterwards, there was one great praise for that measure. It's really hard for me to follow. What is it now? Are you struggling with the measure now or are you keen on the measure? After all, it is beginning to look more and more like the second when I hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u194	That's because you won't let me finish, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u195	Mr Vercamer's speech in committee was more nuanced than that. I would like to ask you about this, and I would also like to tell you what will happen if you continue to defend the index jump so fervently and do not shove the trumpet away quickly. Then, of course, you cannot blame your coalition partner for having the impression that the index jump is not a problem for CD&V and that maybe even automatic wage indexation can be discussed. However, I would ask you to be very careful with that and at least to make it clear whether you think it is a good measure or a measure that you are not a fan of. That is very difficult to follow at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u196	If you let me finish, I would have said that we were not jumping for the measure, but that the most important thing that convinced us is job creation. I'd like to dot the i's. Just to be clear, it's about a one-off index jump. We are not talking about abolishing automatic indexation. We have already repeated that we do not want this. It is also in the coalition agreement. She's not getting there. Other people may differ on that point. There is freedom of speech. Other parties are free to say what they think. For the time being, that is not in the coalition agreement. We have taken specific care of this. That measure will not come with us either. We're going through a one-time index jump. For the sake of clarity, this does not mean that people will earn 2 % less in the future, but that their wages will not be increased once next year, when indexation comes. Wage does not go up, but it will not go down, as is sometimes said here. Mrs Temmerman, you are right about purchasing power. That's calculated, too. All the measures we are going to take will reduce purchasing power for certain groups by 0.4% in the long term, i.e. not 2%. Maybe that's where solidarity plays a part. Mrs Temmerman, you have just said that you have also been unemployed for a while. Let us then show solidarity with the many unemployed. Perhaps we are asking for a small cut in purchasing power, by 0.4%, to ensure that we create jobs for others. I think that is also a form of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u197	Mrs. Lanjri, where are your limits? I'm really listening with amazement. I didn't intend to interrupt you, because I was wondering how you, as a CD&Voper, would defend this measure. I was going to wait until you did, but are you here to tell us that it's not so bad that you ask people a little bit, promising them to keep their jobs? You and your party chairman just said that I asked. I have already replied that the people turned in 12 % to Ford and could not even stay four years, because after two years they were on the street. Where was their job guarantee? Now you come to say that you are doing it, but that you think it is a difficult measure and really do not want to do it. However, you ask for a small effort, because CD&V considers it important to create jobs. How can you ask for that moral commitment? You can't do otherwise and you haven't done it in the past, but now you'll do it to create jobs. You now come to the chair and say that it is not so bad to ask people to make a small effort...................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm sorry, but your limits are very far. I knew CD&V was a flexible batch, but make sure you don't get a muscle tear from the spread you're holding on to for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u198	I can only endorse that last remark. By the way, I was a little confused. I thought Zuhal Demir was in the chair, but it turned out to be Nahima Lanjri. What you're here to say is anything but CD&V rhetoric, isn't it, Mr Vercamer?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u199	You won't even let me finish, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u200	We have an iron lady with us, because what are you saying? The index jump is a sign of solidarity with job-seekers. That's very creative. I haven't even heard Mr Demir say anything like that. The index jump is therefore a sign of solidarity with jobseekers. Mrs Lanjri, I would remind you that the index jump will also be for people who have to fall back on benefits, for job-seekers. That is a strange form of solidarity. The people with whom you wanted to show solidarity are all affected by this index jump. Moreover, as a bouncer, I find your plea for solidarity with job seekers and people who are struggling a little harsh. I experience it as a bit harsh, but not only because of the limited job report of the federal government, but also because of the track record of CD&V and other parties in these and previous governments. If we look at what you have decided over the last few years in relation to job seekers, including the waiting allowance, the degressivity of benefits, the savings on part-time work, then I think you are having a very difficult time, Mrs Lanjri. You may be talking about solidarity with people seeking work, but that is not credible. Stop selling the index jump as a fantastic measure of solidarity and as a new form of caritas. That story is hard to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u201	I cannot get the impression that some of my colleagues here in the Chamber have listened poorly to Mr Lanjri. Mr Calvo, measures and adjustments have been taking place for several years, including in social security, both in the previous legislature and in this legislature. This is absolutely necessary in order not to pass the invoices on to your generation. We do not wish to make the mistakes of the 70s and 80s. I have heard Mr Lanjri admit in her speech that the index jump is under discussion today. Of course, it is not totally budgetaryly neutral. Of course we are calling for efforts to be made by our citizens. She has said that that is true, and we do not wish to deny it. That is why we want to compensate for this by means of all kinds of measures, which were explicitly proposed this morning and this afternoon. As a result, the difference is less than with a brutal index jump. We would never have accepted a brutal index jump. We accept a socially compensated one, with the guarantee that there will be no further indexation in the course of this legislature. That is the agreement, and that adds about 30 000 jobs, a figure that we do not give up, nor employers' organisations, but other public organisations, namely the Planning Bureau and the National Bank, whose figures are close to each other. Yeah, some people will feel that. Yeah, we want to compensate for that. But, yeah, that's gonna get extra jobs, too, and that's social.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u202	As Mr Verherstraeten said, that was a difficult decision for us. Nor would we have accepted it if it had been merely a brutal measure without corrections and without accompanying measures. [[Objection]] I thought you had a good intention of letting me finish and then perhaps react; I'll be right back to the tax shift. It was necessary to take into account those who were in difficulty, such as those with a small pension, those with a low wage or benefit. This required compensatory measures, which is also included in the coalition agreement. It is the first time that a government has set out the ambition to raise minimum benefits and minimum pensions to the poverty line. That never happened in the previous legislatures, Mrs Kitir. That ambition has been formulated and we do not stick to fine words. Between now and 2019, a total of €1.5 billion is foreseen for compensatory measures. As a result, temporary and full unemployment benefits, accidents at work, occupational diseases, time credits, runways, pensions and assistance for the first two years increase by an average of 2%. The minimum benefit for full or temporary unemployment is increased by 1.25 %. The minimum pension is increased by 2.3 %. In order to equalise the pensions of self-employed persons and employees, we provide for an additional 20%. The raising of the oldest pensions also accounts for 1%. The holiday allowance for disabled persons is raised by 52%. This means, in concrete terms, that people will receive EUR 468 instead of EUR 308. There is also an increase of almost 7% in the holiday allowance for pensioners. And so on! This is what we do for people with benefits or pensions. In addition, we want workers to have more net left over. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we see? The measure of the increased occupational deduction, for which EUR 900 million has been released, is already being implemented this year. I did the math. A person with a gross monthly wage of 3 000 euros will have 130 euros net extra in 2015, so this year already. For lower-wage workers, this amount will be even higher, as lower-wage rates are higher. The same applies to the benefits and pensions I mentioned earlier: we are already doing so this year. Even if there is no index jump this year, we are already increasing those benefits this year. I think that is necessary and logical. Many benefits are still far below the poverty line. There must therefore be a catch-up movement and we will be committed to this. In 2015, EUR 170 million will be allocated to raise the lowest income by 1%. How this is distributed is still to be decided. As of next year there will be 119 million euros extra for the tax work bonus. If I take the overall picture, you must be able and willing to see it, then we are talking about EUR 2.6 billion in efforts that we are calling for to reduce the burden. There is EUR 2.1 billion in social corrections. It amounts to EUR 319.5 million and EUR 627.2 million for prosperity stability, EUR 900 million for the professional deficit, EUR 127 million for the lowest income and EUR 119 million for the tax work bonus, a total of EUR 2.1 billion. Is that enough? No, in our opinion, there is absolutely room for a little bit more on top of that. In recent months there has been social unrest. Citizens are asking whether it is fair distribution and whether the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. Well, there is already a compensation of EUR 2.1 billion, but we have also called for a tax shift. It is also included in the coalition agreement and what is included in the coalition agreement will also be implemented. We are therefore looking forward with interest to the proposals made by the Minister of Finance and, in particular, by the government on the tax shift, which will also allow us to shift the burden on labour towards high capital, eco-taxality and consumption. Those who do not call the reduction of 2% of workers' income social do not want to see the overall picture. So give the full story, which is nuanced. We would indeed fit for an index jump without the necessary accompanying measures and without social corrections. We would fit for an index jump that doesn't create jobs. We will ensure that the corrections, which are already being applied, will continue to be applied in the future, and that the social partners provide additional jobs. They asked to remove the wage cost handicap of 2.9 %. Well, that's what you're talking about. We ask them to make efforts to create jobs. If you create jobs, you also provide social security, which is financed by employees' contributions. That's what we're talking about. It is about economic growth and social progress. We have a good system of social security. We want to preserve it, we want to strengthen it. That is why measures are now needed. We can't put our heads in the sand. I particularly ask the Minister for Work, Kris Peeters, to continue the dialogue with the social partners and, together with them, to ensure that the commitment they have made to create jobs is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u203	Mrs Lanjri, I have not heard a few things in your speech. You have said that it is the first time that there are so many compensations for the lowest benefits. You think that's important, because it's necessary, it's good and it's social. Do you know that it is also the first time that an index jump has been made which applies only to workers and to benefits? All other index jumps also applied to notaries and were also applicable to rental prices, dividends. Why isn't that the case now? Why don't you do that now? It was the logical reasoning of CD&V that if the revenues were not to increase, the rent prices should not rise either?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u204	We can keep repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u205	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u206	Come on, it's up to Mrs. Kitir, and no one else. Mrs Kitir and no one else has the floor. Then it can be replicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Lanjri, during your speech, you said that people who are struggling must be taken into account, with the lowest benefits and so on. But, frankly, at the end of your speech, I was wondering what the people who go to work every day, do their job, return home, earn their wages and pay their bills, have actually done you wrong. What have they done wrong, so that you only have eyes for the people with the lowest benefits? Why do you fish them and not the great powers? Mrs Lanjri, if you want to make it so hard that you really think it is important, then you would have brought these two issues to your attention today. Today, you approve the draft, but you say it is coming. I've heard that for a long time, but I still don't see it. We'll see about that. If you had considered it really important and made a point of it, you would have put both things forward today. The rental prices are not in the design. Something that makes sense will be negotiated with the tax shift file. I am curious to see what kind of antisocial measure you are going to compensate for this. You'll come here and tell me you brought in the rents. In the meantime, you will have had to take another antisocial measure, because otherwise that point would not have been reached and CD&V is the social face of this government. Secondly, I repeat the question, what have the working people actually done to you? Pull the line to everyone. In that case, the measure might still be fair. However, I will always be against an index jump. An index jump was already made in the past, but for everyone. Now you are only implementing the measure for those who work and have benefits. The rents, the dividends, the notaries and everything else are left untouched, which I honestly do not understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u208	Mrs. Kitir, these people have done nothing wrong. That is why we want to work in the coming years to ensure that they keep their jobs as much as possible and that others can get a job. We'll fight for that from Monday morning to Sunday night. Your question about the rent is a fair question. In the past, when introducing an index jump, the rent is indeed linked to it. Indeed, we would have liked that link to have happened now. Indeed, I would have liked to see this included in the draft now. It is true that this provision is not in the draft. However, that does not change our opinion. We consider it fair that a leap should also be made for rental income. In the majority, that discussion is not settled. We have agreed that this point will be put on the table in the context of the tax shift. The debate is not exhausted. Our position on this matter has not changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u209	Mr President, I have heard several things here today, but what is striking is that we hear them repeatedly. Several things are repeated here all the time. However, we do not hear a case here. If one talks about great abilities, about a tax shift that is not yet there and so on, then one already has criticism before one can work something out. On the one hand, I have no problem with criticism, but those who criticize are exactly the ones who have had the chance to do the same for 25 years. So they criticize what they themselves should have done or could have done but left behind. That can also be said. You shouldn't always blow up the tower about what's to come. I believe that in this government everyone takes responsibility in their own way. Let that happen because you didn't do what had to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u210	I would very much like to answer that. That has happened in the past. I was just looking things up, you won't blame me for not knowing them all from outside. There has also been a real shift towards capital taxes in the previous government, although very small at the beginning. I admit it was a small shift. The sp.a wanted to go much further together with the PS. For you who love to talk about your programme, that is already in our programme from 2010. Only I have said that clearly in this Chamber. Our coalition partners were not in favour of this. However, please do not say that we have never done so. We did it. We have taken a start and I thank the coalition partners at the time for supporting this. We wanted to go much further then, but the coalition partners were not prepared to do so. What I do want to say is that we have not made an index jump. We didn't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u211	Okay, that debate is closed and I now give the floor to Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said today, including by my group. So I will try not to repeat too much, although I fear that this is vain hope after all that has been said, but I will try to synthesize my group's position. The main thrust of the discussion on this bill is about the index jump, but there is much more in this bill. You know that history goes back to the law of 1996, the law on competitiveness, which I mentioned at the beginning of the afternoon. That law was then adopted because we found that our country was building up a labour cost handicap towards our neighbours, our main trading partners. The logic of that law was to annually verify the wage evolution in our country in the different sectors. The FOD WASO would do that. It would then be possible to examine the increase in wages, after which an opinion would be given. The social partners will then determine what the wage evolution could be in the coming years. In the end, the mechanics didn't work properly. We have had the mechanics of wage increases and also the mechanics of the fixed index, the index mechanisms, to which many professors today are critical and on which I make it clear, on behalf of our group, that it is not in the basket to discuss this. However, in the basket, which was communicated from the beginning in the coalition agreement, a one-off index jump of 2% is on all bets and benefits. That is a denominator in that story from 1996 to today, because we had to observe that with the automatic index and the increases in all sectors of wages, the wage handicap continued to evolve despite the 1996 law. A number of years ago, during the Di Rupo administration, we found that there was a labour cost handicap of about 5% in our country. This labour cost handicap is, of course, about gross wages. This government tackles gross wage costs at various levels. The policy set out by the previous government is being pursued. The three instalments of EUR 450 million in wage cuts that are further applied year after year are already an element of tax shift, which is clearly stated in the government agreement and which was already in the basket in the previous legislature. We are adding something to that. Budgetary control must also be able to carry it, which is not obvious. If you give a discount on social contributions, it costs a lot of money. An index jump is also an injection for the competitiveness of wages. We have not done this in an antisocially harsh way, as some say. There have indeed been important compensations. I mentioned one of these myself in the debate, in particular that in the light of the index jump, the social partners agreed to increase gross wages by 0.5 % in 2016 and net wages by 0.3 %. However, I am not saying that they all agreed, because they did not; they differed. In addition, there is the flat-rate occupational deduction, which has been applicable since 1 January 2015 and which is actually a net tax reduction for everyone who makes use of it. In 2016, we even do that twice. For example, we are creating an important incentive in terms of the purchasing power of those who make use of this flat-rate reduction in professional costs. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, that debate has already been held here today, with various opinions from the left to the right. This wealth envelope is indeed used in its entirety; it is used for the lowest benefits in order to provide compensation there too. The index jump isn't there to bully people. The National Bank estimated the number of jobs created by this index jump at 33 000. The Planning Office came to a slightly lower number, but it is not true that 16 000 were involved. The number of 16 000 is the overall result that the Planning Office had set out of all the measures taken together and is therefore more than just the index jump. The National Bank is talking about 33 000 jobs, the Planning Office is talking about a little less. Our aim is to create jobs and stimulate the economy in order to safeguard the social security of the future. The Liberals can only welcome that. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we heard several social partners on 4 February 2015. In addition to the National Bank, the Planning Bureau and the FPS Finance, the VBO, the ABVV and the Confederation Building have also been. We have therefore seen social partners from various countries who have been able to express their views. We have noticed that the ABVV has expressed a negative opinion on the measures. We know that the social partners differ on that story. Despite this, an agreement has been reached within the Group of Ten, not with all partners, but with eight out of ten. I have listed the compensatory measures. We also consider it important that these measures offer an economic perspective. The signal from this government is clear, namely to focus on jobs, to reduce wage costs by the end of this legislature and to boost the economy in order to safeguard social security, without cutting purchasing power and with the necessary compensatory measures. The debate is often led to the tax shift. The various parties have also expressed their views on this issue. My group chairman, Mr Dewael, made it very clear this afternoon that the tax shift was included in the coalition agreement. The sum of EUR 2.9 billion is included and this measure, which our party supports, will be implemented. However, what we are opposed to is a tax lift, in the sense that we will introduce valuations that will stop the economy and destroy job creation. We don't want that. We will never want to do that and we will never support it. The tax shift remains an important theme, also for us, and is in the coalition agreement. We must work on this in the next three months, together with the four coalition partners of the majority. In fact, I once added to the party's pre-election programmes. That has already been mentioned and it is always interesting to look at what our political parties and other political parties are saying. For example, it is very funny that a tax shift of EUR 1.25 billion was planned in the PS programme, while the government is going for EUR 2.9 billion. In fact, we are doing much better than the PS. If we do even better in this area, it is actually wonderful. The sp.a had devoted only a few paragraphs to the tax shift, on a programme of 286 pages. In the meantime, I'm glad everyone realizes that a tax shift is important. We too will support the debate on this in the government in the coming months, in a serene way, but above all with a shift of burdens and not with an increase in burdens. We will, of course, approve the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u213	The government is not represented at the moment, I assume because of a sanitary stop. The minister has just arrived. He's here. Mrs Kitir, you are the next speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u214	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the title of the draft, I had very high expectations: draft legislation to improve employment. However, when I went through the content, I was very disappointed. This government is making an index jump, which will block social benefits and wages in the private sector and in the public sector by 2%. In doing so, you place all the burdens on families, while it is very doubtful how many jobs this measure will bring. It is a measure that does not make any sense economically, but is also fundamentally unjust. Above all, this government has no excuse to go through this index jump. You claim that there are no alternatives, but there are: you just don't want to hear them, you just don't give them a chance. Those who earn money by working, those who earn little or need a benefit, or those who retire, will have to hand in heavy. On the other hand, those who make money by having money, the big assets and the fraudsters, leave them untouched. As if all that is not enough, you would scatter some extra in the wound by not applying the index jump to rental income, insurance and dividends. Dear government, whose interests do you represent? Unfortunately, asking the question is also answering them. If your only sales pitch is that there are social corrections, that is actually the best proof of a fundamental antisocial policy. I joined politics because I have a fundamental problem with injustice. That is one of the main reasons, Minister, why we have tried as weeks and months to stop this unjust measure. If it wasn't on the street, we'd do it right here in the hemisphere. The whole dossier shows the mentality with which you govern: a mentality in which the gap between rich and poor increases, a mentality in which people's purchasing power is reduced, a mentality that ensures that almost all Belgians will have less money in the account by the end of the month. All because you don't want to make a fair, honest decision about the tax shift. As a result of our opposition work, we were able to ensure that your previous deadline, 1 April, was not met, but the way in which you wanted to push this index jump through Parliament's throat is actually unseen. A theme with such a major impact on the lives of our people is not being quickly converted into legislation. That is why I think there are other reasons why you do not want to have a thorough debate in the Chamber and why it should be done so quickly. The real real reason is probably not far to look for, because we see how painful it is for CD&V to deal with that theme here. In his speech before the elections, the Minister of Work stated literally: "We do not choose populism, we do not choose the frontal attack on the weakest." With all due respect, Minister, you will. You deal with the weakest and leave the strongest untouched. In the same speech, you said: "Don't believe them when they say that the abolition of the index is the solution." With all due respect, Minister, you did. I'm going to continue with your famous speech before the elections: "We're in favour of getting rid of the pay handicap, but you don't do that by discouraging young people, by putting single parents who are out of work on the throat, by taking pay off people who work. Again with all due respect, Minister, but you do. You may continue to do so in the future. Through all these lies we can see that the discussions of the index jump are very painful and embarrassing for you. You have, as it were, cheated on the voters. The full speech can be read on your website. I advise you all, especially the Members of Parliament of CD&V, to reread it before you approve this bill this week. CD&V would be the social face of this government. It's not a very social index jump, is it? Still, he's here. Understand who can understand. Mr Minister, you first came to tell us that there was no possibility of consulting the social partners because of the urgency. We gave you that opportunity, by postponing the file by one month, but you didn't use that opportunity again. You have never recognised the social dialogue, so you have not even considered alternatives to an index jump. Both you and Mr Lachaert proudly said that there was an agreement between eight out of ten partners, but that is only about the corrections to the index jump. The social partners were never allowed to express their views on the index jump itself. You decide and then the social partners can discuss the points and the decimal places. And yet you claim to take the social dialogue seriously. The index jump, however, was not enough. The government then made the choice to make all kinds of services more expensive by not applying the index jump. I am thinking of the rents, the post, tickets for public transport, registration fees for higher education, insurance and so on. All these things are indexed, so you double-cross the street with the common man and woman. On the one hand, you take away their wages and, on the other hand, you make all their expenses more expensive. If you really are a government of the Belgian people you would never dare make such a choice, but apparently you do. If we calculate how much your measures will cost people, we will soon reach EUR 400 per month for certain wages. Over a career of 40 years, we will amount to EUR 15 000. Even the compensation for professional costs will never fully compensate for this loss. First, your minister announced in the press that he would investigate who was competent for the rental prices. You said that it was the logic itself that if income should not increase, rent prices should not rise. That was your position three months ago. The Council of State was also very clear - one can take the initiative at federal level to introduce an index jump on rental prices. That clarity has come to light, but there is no initiative to introduce an index jump on rental prices. Today you are announcing in the press once again that this logic, which you defended here three months ago, must be part of the negotiations on the tax shift. If it is so logical, then why should this be negotiated? Why do you keep putting yourself in a position where you have to give something else in exchange for something that makes sense? What kind of antisocial measure is going to run counter to the index jump of rental prices? Why do we have to pay a price for something that was taken for granted three months ago? If income does not increase, it is logical that rental prices do not rise either. I wish you every success in the negotiations, Minister. However, I am not very optimistic about it. We had a debate on this earlier. On the day that an index jump is adopted in Parliament, a measure which is undoubtedly very difficult for your constituents and your constituents............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, they are not awake from an index jump for rental prices. On the contrary, today they questioned the automatic indexation completely. Minister, how long will you be able to cope with this spread? At what point is it really starting to hurt? As I said, CD&V is a very flexible batch. It is not the first time that you have taken back the big words you say in the newspapers, after a march from the Antwerp City Hall. Mr Minister, this flexibility is also coming to an end. Do you really think that you will ever have a social policy with this coalition partner? At least I don't think so. The worst thing about this whole situation is the excuses you use to justify these antisocial measures. While Minister Van Overtveldt initially spoke of more than 80 000 jobs, you later, Minister, updated this number to 50 000 jobs. Finally, the Planning Bureau reached 16 000 jobs, after a calculation of its own. What will the next figure be? After Mrs Lanjri's speech, I understand that this figure is not really so important. Every job counts. That goes for us too, but there were other alternatives on the table that would create many more jobs. If you were really into jobs, you would have looked at all the alternatives, but you didn't. What are you doing? You are introducing an index jump that will not offer people in the country a better future at all. Besides, she's costing the federal government money. You've always denied that. The index jump would be a neutral operation for the federal government. However, last week you read a short passage from the report by the Treasury Inspectorate showing that the federal government is losing net at the index jump. The sum of what you save, on the one hand, by spending less on benefits and civil servants' wages and, on the other hand, the lower income from taxes and social contributions is negative. In other words, the federal state treasury loses at the index jump. You'll have to dare. Under the motto of making public finances healthy, you are making a gap in the federal budget with your measure which is socially unjust and which makes no economic sense at all. Moreover, this majority has decided that Parliament will not even have access to the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate. Again, that is completely unseen! We do want clarity. Finally, Minister, that is Parliament's full right. Make the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate public, so that the figures are clear to everyone. The index jump will not create a competitive shock, as this government announces. Low inflation and the different inflation mechanisms will make the index jump palpable to households for years to come, while employers will hardly be able to feel the labour cost reduction. It's worse. This government has actually decided to postpone the Competitiveness Pact, which means that a targeted reduction of the burden, as decided by the previous government, will not occur at the time when the need is highest. In the long term, the index jump threatens to turn out badly for the Belgian economy. It's a counterproductive policy. We indicated that hardly any jobs will be created as a result of the index jump. In the long term, the deterioration in the purchasing power of citizens, especially those with lower incomes and middle incomes, will make us suffer. Domestic demand is difficult to attract. The European Commission is therefore right to warn that the many measures affecting the purchasing power of Belgians will ensure that domestic demand is stalled and will therefore delay economic revival. In times of low inflation, the index is a form of good policy. That is what all economists agree on. Especially in these economically difficult times, the weakening of the purchasing power of the Belgians is a recipe for more recession. More than that, it will crush the early economic recovery. Just now, at a time when the economic perspective is gradually coming back because Europe and the European Central Bank are finally letting go of their fetishism and giving the European economy some oxygen, this government is pursuing a policy that runs counter to that. Stimulate purchasing power, especially from whom it is difficult to make ends meet, and thus pump money into the economy. This government is doing the opposite. The reduction in purchasing power will reduce consumption, reduce expenditure and ultimately lead to economic deterioration, i.e. reduce jobs. Is it really that policy your government wants, Minister? I'm starting to ask serious questions about that behavior again. The removal of labour costs with our neighbouring countries is also an important issue for us. During the campaign, all parties agreed that wage costs should be reduced for those who create work. This government has turned its cart. Apparently wage costs are not the problem, but wages. In other words, we all make too much money. Again, you have to dare. For the most important part, the labour cost handicap is nevertheless due to the wage policy pursued in Germany in recent years. A lot of people forget to mention that here. Many members come here to tell us that our labour cost handicap is high in Belgium, but nobody tells us that it is not only Belgium's fault, but also Germany's antisocial measures were taken. Germany is now returning to these measures, which will restore the wage-earners' handicap in the long term. Of course, it's too much and too nice to tell. The mini-jobs have increased poverty among the working people in Germany. That is why Germany managed to make temporary even progress, at the expense of the other European countries. But even in Germany there is a change in that direction. German wages will go up again in line with labour productivity, which will reduce our labour costs handicap with Germany, even without lowering wages. In addition, other alternatives are possible and necessary to reduce wage costs targeted at us, so that the economy can attract and create jobs. Then why is the government still introducing the index jump? The only reason is the budgetary table, which you have given us. The government expects corporate tax to increase by 215 million euros. Minister, you admitted in committee that the index jump is a gap in the federal budget and social security due to the impact of the index jump on tax revenues and social contributions. The announced policy also has an impact on VAT revenue and slows down economic growth, to the extent that social security suffers from a deficit. However, it was already clear earlier that the profits of companies will increase according to the government's expectations. Companies' profits will increase by as much as 860 million euros. It is therefore a purely ideological choice of a neoliberal government, which cuts down on people's hoods and leaves the big earners completely untouched. We really can't do that. I am sure that several members at CD&V are having a hard time with this too. Anyway, they'll just have to get a story from the Secretary of Work. We'll see what your voter will think about this in 2019. The economic progress and prosperity created will become increasingly less and less of those who contribute to it. The answer of the government to whom every day has to puzzle to make ends meet is to make too much money. The wage or benefit will now go down by 2 % with the excuse that it will keep one's job and create new jobs. However, no guarantee is asked of employers to use the index jump effectively for job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u215	I won't be interrupting you for long. However, you say again that the wage goes down by 2 %. That's not right. It is true that wages do not rise because of the one-off index jump. However, you say again that employees will earn 2% less. Purchasing power will fall in the long term, as we have said. However, formulate it correctly. You are all too happy to make it appear as if employees will earn 2 % less in the future. I think we agree that the index jump will not increase wages by 2% once, that we will provide for all kinds of compensation and that this will ultimately lead to a loss of purchasing power of 0.4%. We admit that. We would have preferred it to be different. However, stop saying that workers will see less than 2% on their pay slip, because that is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u216	Mrs Lanjri, if you would rather hear me say that people's purchasing power will fall by 2%, I will put it that way. At the end of the journey, this is also stated in the above draft law, which will reduce 2 % and reduce purchasing power by 2 %. Mrs Lanjri, you may still come forward with your sales talk about social corrections.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u217	Mr Vercamer has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u218	Mrs Kitir, you must remain serious in the discussion. You claim that the people get 2 % purchasing power. That is incorrect and incorrect. Besides, that's not fair. The index jump is offset by social corrections. An amount of EUR 2.9 billion will be allocated, just to allow the lowest earners to earn additional income by 2015, without being affected by the index. That's an increase in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u219	Mr Vercamer, what will happen in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u220	In addition, the welfare envelope, which we used in the previous government for only 60%, which we are now bringing to 100 percent, which makes it possible for those who have to live on a benefit to make a catch-up in terms of purchasing power. So you have to be correct about things.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u221	Mr Vercamer, there has been much debate on this issue since this morning. Mrs Lanjri, this is a wage reduction because when wages do not increase and the cost of living increases, the amount collected is obviously less. This is therefore not only a reduction in purchasing power, but also a relative reduction in wages. Moreover, as has been said, with the reform of flat-rate charges, some wages will actually receive partial compensation. But there will never be any question of full compensation. If the persons concerned have children, the family allowances will not be indexed; if they rent, their rent will be indexed. Nothing has been done to block the price of energy, etc. In doing so, if some compensation is foreseen, it will never be total. Then stop pretending that compensation will be made with the welfare allowance! That's a lie! Previously, there were salaries plus the welfare allowance. Since there will be no more indexation and only the welfare allowance will remain, it cannot be said that the measure will be accompanied by compensation because this is not true. Finally, we must stop saying that we must count with the whole mass well-being. As has been demonstrated again this morning, there will be the welfare package less the EUR 360 million corresponding to the family allowance portion. You committed yourself, in the context of the law of institutional reforms, to taking into account the family allowances for the calculation of the welfare mass. You've come back to your commitment. Mr Vercamer, all this has been explained in detail. This is a bad measure. Don't try to hide behind screens. It is simply a bad measure that will impoverish pensioners and social beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u222	Mrs Onkelinx has already explained very clearly what I wanted to say, but I would like to add one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not because ten times, a hundred times, a thousand times that prosperity adjustment is misinterpreted that it suddenly becomes right. So please stop, we have already explained a thousand times what is really happening, this morning and Mrs Onkelinx has just done it again, it is not because you keep repeating it that suddenly it is becoming true.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u223	Mr Vercamer, if I have to get lessons to conduct the debate honestly, I certainly shouldn't get them from you. Mr Minister, you said that this index jump should be made and when we asked you where the guarantees were that the proceeds of the index jump would be used effectively for investment in new jobs, you always replied that the previous government never asked for guarantees that employers would turn the reductions into new jobs. That is why you think that the government can make that index jump without asking for guarantees from employers? But that is a world of difference, Minister. In the previous government period, however, wages were indexed and a reduction in charges was added. Now you run an index jump of 2 % and get it only with the benefits and the working people. And then you say that the previous government couldn't get any guarantees either, and you think you can use that answer now. That's not how it works. Again, where are the guarantees that will ensure that the index jump you are undertaking will also effectively deliver new jobs? All I hear is that we are going to ask for a moral commitment, and all I hear is that we are going to talk about the common sense of the entrepreneurs, while at the same time asking for a serious effort from those who do not ask for it. People who go to work don't do anything wrong, they're just gonna work to earn a wage and build a good life. Why are only these people marked? Again, where is the guarantee that the proceeds will effectively flow back to jobs? And what makes us particularly angry is that the government doesn't listen to the concerns of the thousands of people who have come on the streets. However, there is a limit, there is a limit to what ordinary people and SMEs can carry. That is why, more than ever, we in our country need more equitable taxation, a shift towards justice, which does not exempt the winners and double-pay the rest, so that we can really invest in sustainable and viable jobs, so that we can really stimulate entrepreneurship. 2015 should be the year of the tax shift. Anyone who works must be able to have more money by the end of the month, Minister, and not less. Those who undertake should be able to invest more cheaply and recruit employees if there is room for them. There are several ways of solving the problems in a good way. In our country, Mrs Temmerman has just said that the value of 99% of all shares is owned by 10% of households. A fair contribution from that group is not a symbol, but a lever for a fair sharing of effort. Raise those capital gains taxes and lower the charges on wages. If a more targeted reduction of charges rather than an index jump were to be achieved, the money from the value added tax could create 54 000 jobs, rather than the 16 000, which you are now trying to sell. That's a lot more. Even Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois stated this morning in "The Morning" you can feel free to listen to the interview that targeted cuts in charges will bring much more jobs. What's wrong with that, Mrs. Lanjri? You asked what is wrong with creating 16 000 or 23 000 jobs. Let me ask you again: what is wrong with creating 54 000 jobs without affecting people? Colleagues of CD&V, if you still have a conscience, do not approve the index jump. It won't just be the one-off jump if it depends on your coalition partners. Please stop denying your constituents.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u224	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Employment, the text under consideration today, which organises the index jump, is one of the major pieces of the anti-social work of the federal majority. Sometimes I wonder if you have not decided to dismantle, piece by piece, a building that has been built over the years in the dialogue between workers' representatives and employers' representatives, with the support of the public authorities, namely our social security. Social security, which ensures solidarity between all, the active and non-active, the well-carrying and the sick, the workers and job seekers. Social security, which is a socio-economic stabilizer that makes it possible to go through collective crises and individual crises, which ensure social peace and a decent life for all or, at the very least, because the grids are ever wider, for as many of our fellow citizens as possible. Your government has decided to step into the breaches that had been opened by the Di Rupo-Reynders-Milquet government. Since the breaches have been opened before, you do not carry all the responsibilities. I am thinking of the pension dossier, of the 2011 reform, of the question of rights, in particular in relation to the assimilated periods which, in a few years, will lead to even lower pensions for some of our fellow citizens and especially some of our fellow citizens who benefited from these assimilations in terms of unemployment. I am thinking of limiting the benefit of integration allowances to three years, which is further aggravated by other measures which I will detail in terms of indexation. Of course, this was not done as violently as by this index jump. The previous majority has moved to the mechanism of automatic wage indexation, with the clear objective of delaying the adjustment of wages to the cost of living by changing the basket of the housewife. It's like you have an agenda to destroy everything that can organize solidarity between all Belgians. You can pout, Mr. Minister of Employment. You are often presented as one who may have another agenda, even if in the past, in the Group of Ten, you were rather on the bench of employers. That's the strict truth. You can try to make it look like something else. Make it seem, as other parties do, that it splits your heart, that you have another agenda. That's the reality! Today, you are in the process, piece by piece, of dismantling social security. Are you aware of this responsibility? It's very serious! This is very serious because it is not fair, but it is not economically effective either. I heard Messrs. Clarinval, Vuye and Lachaert justify this by saying that it is necessary for the functioning of our economy. On the contrary, we believe that this will have a particularly negative impact on the functioning of the economy. First of all, it is not fair because you are making the weak pay for the crisis, the budgetary difficulties in Belgium, the international pressure to try to find a balance as quickly as possible, saving the most affluent people, those who are lucky enough to get out of it without too much difficulty. I can quote a number of examples, some of which have already been noted by other colleagues. First of all, the announced Cayman tax, which, compared to the enormous wealth of Belgian citizens located abroad – the amount of 55 billion was quoted in response to a question I asked Mr. Van Overtveldt – will organise a new form of cheap regularisation. There is the diamond tax that is in the middle of the day, since it seems that a draft bill is under discussion in the government with a very advantageous rate for the diamond sector, a specific sui generis tax regime that will allow it to continue to make significant profits. There is also an example of the fight against tax fraud and the lack of resources for all the links in the chain to fight tax fraud. I can talk about the lack of taxation of capital gains. Of course, we're talking about it. You've certainly been able to give an interview or the other, saying it's desirable. But where is it within the framework of the tax shift we are announced? It is a question of allocating the effort differently to make it bear by those who have emerged victorious from this crisis rather than by those who are the victims, such as workers. Where are the firm's clear commitments to the benefits, to the aid they receive to create employment? Have you considered an exceptional contribution from the greatest heritages? No. On the other hand, you have decided on a series of measures, of which this index jump is part, which will touch the most fragile. I've done the accounting. Some spoke of compensation measures, well-being envelope, etc. In total, by the end of the legislature, if you are allowed to do so, it is no less than EUR 4 billion that will be taken back to people, to families, who are wondering, each month, how they will finish it, simply because their resources are insufficient. These are the most fragile people who will pay for the crisis. I can give examples. It was mentioned earlier that the Di Rupo government had limited the allowance to three years. You tell us that those under the age of 21 or over 25 will no longer have access to it. Do you realize that today, young students are wondering about the continuation of their studies and the risk, if they continue their studies and therefore seek a diploma, to be qualified, to have more chances in the labour market, to be unable to benefit from this aid, from this parachute if they do not register as job seekers? I am thinking of the addition of allowances for part-time workers, most often women workers, particularly in the large-scale distribution sector, who do not agree to give them full-time work in the securities and cleaning sector, sometimes alone people with children, who, if they wish, cannot even accept full-time work. All these people will be hit hard by these savings, which do not represent much in relation to the overall budgetary effort to be made, but which represent particularly large amounts in relation to their purchasing power and their monthly livelihoods. I am thinking of the addition of allowances for older unemployed workers, the new pension reform, all of which are unfair measures which will relate to the state budget, but which are mostly ideological and which will lead people, families in poverty and stress. We cannot accept it! This is not our conception of social security! Other means can be used to provide different, alternative funding for social security, to create more jobs. It's not fair and it's not effective either! We challenge the economic efficiency of index jumps. This will create new problems and therefore new costs. Tomorrow we will have to address the health problems related to the lack of resources, the problems of schooling related to dropping out of school of children living in families that do not have sufficient means of subsistence, the problems of violence, the problems of urban renewal caused by this deliberate choice to let go, to abandon the most fragile part of our society. This will also have a clear impact on the functioning of our economy. We could talk about social peace, the fact that our businesses need a calm social climate to function well. This will have an impact on internal consumption. You deprive workers and recipients of essential income, which they use on a daily basis to meet their primary needs: to eat, to heat, to move. This will also have an impact on citizens' savings behaviour. To free up savings and transform them into private or public investments, there needs to be confidence in the future. To free up savings and invest in them, so to make our economy work, we need some security of existence, also provided by a functioning social security system that can act in the event of difficulties. On the other hand, austerity, which you practice after other governments in Europe, has shown all its limits in terms of the ability to invest and the morale of workers. This has led, in other European countries, to an economic slowdown, today denounced by more and more economists – including "classics" who chose yesterday the path of austerity and who now realize its limits and its negative impact. I think, for example, of Mr. From Grauwe, but there are others at the IMF or, it seems, at the European Commission. You have entered a vicious deflationary circle whose effects are very negative for our economy. When you tell workers that their wages will not be adapted to the changing cost of living, you give a deplorable signal. Demir was very proud to refer to the repeated index jumps of the Martens-Gol period. It was solutions of the 1980s-1990s that were overtaken by the facts and denounced today, including by economists who promoted them. They are unfair and ineffective. I do not claim that there is no need for reform in terms of social security. Yes, things can and must change in this case. Our social security needs to adapt to ageing. The Committee on Ageing has indicated that we must collectively find a solution to provide decent pensions to all future pensioners, not only by narrowing existing entitlements, but by using alternative funding. It is necessary to adapt to the evolution of the family nuclei and to the new health problems. It is important to provide funding that is different from our hospitals. This is a real issue for Mrs De Block, who is not present. We need to share working time better, especially between generations. You know that's one of our main concerns. So there is something to change, but it is positive. The reforms you have chosen are negative. You save the most powerful, the richest, those who have had the chance to go through the crisis, to hit the most fragile. You are clearly wrong about reform with this index jump and other measures decided by the government. I am going to turn to the system itself and to the fundamental question, for us too, of wages, competitiveness and employment. Let me begin by reminding you that what you are doing is in contradiction with various commitments made by different parties of this majority in the electoral campaign. Mr. Calvo has sufficiently pointed out and quoted important excerpts of your words in the election campaign as a representative of the CD&V. I believe, as an agent, that it is important to be consistent with what is declared in an election campaign and that a commitment made must be respected, otherwise anti-politicism is nurtured and a serious democratic problem is created. As a Francophone, I can also quote – and I have already done so here – the commitments made by the only Francophone party that is part of this majority in indexing. I brought my fetish extract to my tablet, with important personalities, you will not deny, from the MR, who were very clearly engaged, in the electoral campaign (Mr Gilkinet shows a video on his tablet). "We don't want to touch indexing", "In no case will we touch the index!" How do we interpret this sentence "We will not touch the index"? Mr Clarinval, you are asking for the floor. I am interested in hearing your views on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u225	You didn't tell us you became the president of this Parliament. The philosophy is this: we do not touch on the indexing mechanism, it is obvious. Now you interpret it in your own way, but the indexing mechanism is still there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u226	So you had to add a captioning! One cannot be more explicit, Mr.Clarinval (Mr.Gilkinet shows the videos on his tablet): "In no case will we touch the index!"
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u227	No case! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u228	I can hardly, Mr Clarinval, find three more representative agents, apart from you, of the MR: the Deputy Prime Minister of the time, with a sign that says "Automatic indexing...". I don't think he totally believes it, but Mr. Reynders has a silent sign saying, "We won't touch it." I also heard the then President, today Prime Minister Charles Michel, who was participating in a debate. The current president of the MR said that there was no question of touching the index. By jumping an index, however, this is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u229	Mr Gilkinet, the indexing mechanism still exists. In other words, if we do an index jump, we have not touched that mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u230	By no means!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u231	In my view, like your colleagues on the CD&V, you "managed" your word. You lied to the voter, which is very serious. I can only denounce this practice – as agents, we have every interest in being consistent, fulfilling the commitments we make – and the unfair and inefficient nature of the measure in economic terms. A commitment is a commitment! You're caught here on the fact. Beyond that, you have a narrow and erroneous view of competitiveness. According to the various reports of the Central Economic Council, the wage gap was narrowing with regard to external choices, particularly in Germany, where, after a long period of wage restraint, the latter were increased. On the other hand, the question of worker productivity is not taken into account in any way. Finally, other very important costs that influence the fiscal balance and performance of our companies are undervalued. I am thinking here of the cost of raw materials, the question of energy costs. This concerns not only the unit cost, but also the volume consumed, the cost of travel and, as the FEB points out regularly, the collective cost of traffic jams in Belgium, which represents an annual cost of more than EUR 9 billion. There is also the question of investments in research, development and training – I will come back to this last point later – and the question of the role of banks in business support. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there were many more modern ways to work on the issue of the competitiveness of our businesses, without affecting workers' rights, without affecting social security. You have not chosen one of these ways; you have chosen an ideological path of hurting the most fragile. In doing so, you also ignore the importance of wages in our economy. It is highlighted in the extract of the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate that you have read to us and that you refuse to hand over to us. This is really disappointing, Mr. Minister of Employment. Wages generate the payment of social security contributions that some, in this forum or elsewhere, call expenses. It is true that this has a cost to companies, but it has a counterpart, it is an absolutely effective social security system. When you earn wages, you get the financing of social security. You are creating problems for the future, as long as you do not anticipate strong alternative funding for social security. I have no difficulty, in the context of a tax shift, in considering another way of financing social security in a solid way to reduce the cost of work for businesses. In this case, mechanisms must be put in place to cover, inter alia, the cost of future pensions. Wages contribute to the consumption of workers and thus to the functioning of the economy. Wages have evolved in terms of wealth creation, both in our country and in other countries in Europe, much less rapidly than other income, including capital income. What is needed is a fiscal reform that rebalances everything, reduces the pressure on wages, facilitates employment and the creation of new jobs, especially in small businesses. The small entrepreneurs I meet ask for only one thing, it is to create an additional job to reduce their own workload and develop their business. They hesitate to do so, given the costs involved. If social security were financed otherwise, in a solid way, as part of a tax reform, a real tax shift, we would have modern and balanced solutions to create jobs. Above all, Mr Minister, I asked Mr Vuye, Mr Clarinval and in committee to what extent this reduction in costs for businesses will generate employment rather than an increase in profits or dividends for shareholders in companies. Aside from hope, trust, and wishful thinking in entrepreneurs, while other business support measures – I am thinking of the notional interests that I mentioned earlier for which there were billions of reductions in social contributions – have shown their limits because they were not conditioned by the maintenance or creation of jobs, you are taking the same path as previous governments. You're saying that to help them, you're going to make an index jump. Your salary cost will be lower, but there is no explicit matching required from entrepreneurs, job creators. Yes, Mr. Vuye, in relation to your question just now, I know conscientious, motivated entrepreneurs who will use this index jump to maintain jobs, develop them, and I know many more – recent social history has shown us – who have gangster behavior, who will opt for relocation, increase dividends. Are you to mention ArcelorMittal, other multinationals who have come to Belgium to benefit from the system of notional interests created by the PS, MR, VLD and sp.a without creating a single job at us or in such a ridiculous proportion that it is to weep in relation to their tax benefits? What is the counterpart of this measure for employers in terms of job creation or retention? Mr. Minister of Employment, this is a fundamental issue that should be your priority. Yes? No? No, we are not part of a planned communist economy, but neither do I believe that we are in a world of Bisounours. There is no automatic link between index jump and job creation. The studies you have presented propose a linear scheme: reduction of contributions equal to job creation. They are contradictory and, at best, in case of job creation, the cost per job created is enormous. If so many billions were available, they could be invested in a much more targeted way by targeting the lowest wages, the sectors of the future or the issue of energy efficiency. As regards job creation and the fact that more Belgians will have the chance to work, to be active, it will go through the tax shift - the Arlésienne of this government - a tax shift which will be in billions of euros and which must provide for solid alternative financing of social security by making use of other types of income than those that finance it today; by the conditionality of the aid: we can no longer grant aid to companies without compensation; by the training of workers, whose ambitions you give back; by investing in research and development; by investing in collaboration with the Regions rather than looking at each other in the future economy, especially in the whole question of the energy transition. Every year we invest in Belgium for 20 billion energy resources: coal, oil, gas, uranium. When we are independent, totally self-sustaining, or as we approach this autonomy, the more we will recover resources to finance employment, services to the community, and public services. Job creation will also come from the sharing of available working time between older and younger workers. We promote a "Tandem Plan". In the opinion of the Council of State, certain arrangements must be negotiated with the Regions. But we believe that it is possible and necessary to better share employment between older workers tired of the conditions they have to meet and young workers who are asking for only one thing: to benefit from initial work experience. On the other hand, there are other variables that need to be addressed. The banking sector must better finance our economy and be more open to business loans. There are too many examples where banks, including public capital banks, put sticks in the wheels of entrepreneurs. What have you proposed, with the Minister of Finance, to make banks more conducive to productive investment and job creation? Nothing! It is much easier to attack workers and beneficiaries. That was what had to be done in a text on "promotion of employment". There's everything but that in your text. One of two things: either you accepted the amendments we tabled, or you changed the title of this law. You have to call a cat a cat. Earlier, we will vote on a "law organizing index jumps and the reduction of the resources of workers and social beneficiaries". Assum at least what you do, starting with the title of this text. On the system as such, I would like to return to the question of the budgetary impact for entity 1. What do you have to hide, Minister, to the extent that you do not agree to give us this advice from the Finance Inspectorate? You express in a non-verbal way that you have nothing to hide. Why have you refused since the debate in committee and again this morning to give us this opinion from the Finance Inspectorate, which says, if I sum up what you wanted to read in committee that the impact is negative for entity 1 – it is us – positive for entity 2, especially for the Communities? It is true that they have a high salary cost burden with the teachers who care for our children – it is very useful and positive for businesses. We are in a particularly difficult budgetary context with international pressure for a gradual return to balance. And you agree to take a measure that has a budgetary impact that you do not allow us to analyse. I heard the argument. It is not a budgetary measure, it is an employment measure. But it is an employment measure that has a budgetary effect. Our responsibility as legislator is with regard to any measure, whatever the field, whether it is health, foreign affairs, development cooperation or in this case employment, to check whether its budgetary impact is sustainable, whether the means used are as intelligent as possible, in the most effective way possible. You refuse – and it is a democratic problem, Minister – to have all the documents available to assess it. This is not the white operation announced for federal public finances. This is really problematic in the budgetary context we know. You wanted to call the index jump jump "intelligent". It's marketing. Several colleagues have come to the gallery to say that this will be compensated. You might even think that the situation of workers and recipients will be better after than before. An index jump, let's be clear, is a 2% decrease in labour income, whether direct or indirect through allowances. Indeed, you use the wellness envelope to compensate for this loss. As has been pointed out very well, the welfare envelope is added to the automatic indexation of wages in a normal context. But the compensation will be 1% for the lowest income in terms of pensions and sickness and disability. For recipients, the loss will remain 1 per cent, including for those with the lowest pensions today who do not survive in the light of the changing cost of living. For the workers, and so as not to touch the beneficiaries – which was a deliberate will that we are challenging – you work through the deductible lump-sum professional fees, which has another difficulty. This increases the net wages of workers but reduces their subsequent social security rights, particularly in the calculation of pensions. On the other hand, as far as compensation is concerned, and the opinion of the Council of State makes it quite clear, you had other steering wheels, other possibilities, such as that of acting on rents or other costs. For rents, this is a concurrent jurisdiction with the Regions but the Council of State says that if you want to take it as a federal authority, even if, as in the case of family allowances, the federated entities change your decision, you could do it. You have made a political choice not to act on the issue of blocking rents to compensate for this loss of income for workers and beneficiaries. It's really problematic. This is another illustration of the antisocial nature of the government. If we are pleased with the abolition of the waiting day for workers, which is linked to the harmonization of workers' and employees' status, I would like to point out explicitly two negative measures contained in your text, including the questioning of training objectives. To be economically competitive, our country needs continuously trained workers, regardless of their age, as we know that older workers have less access to training. Businesses have never met their goal of 1.9% of the wage bill for training; you say it's not a big deal and you're going to make sure that it's not included in the law in a transitional way. You are doing exactly the opposite of what should be done. In terms of equal pay for men and women, another positive societal objective that we have supported since the opposition benches, here too, you say you have time. You have time to fight inequality, but the index jump was so urgent that the social partners and the National Labour Council could not be consulted. I'll finish with the procedure. Of course, that's not all; what matters is the bottom. Nevertheless, it is symptomatic of the approach of a file. You are making the big difference, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, between what appears in the government agreement – which the Prime Minister has repeatedly reminded us that the term "social concertation" was included in it – and the facts and ways of acting. You have tried to make us believe, and this has shocked several members of the Social Affairs Committee, that there is an agreement between the Group of Ten or even the Group of Eight on the principle of index jumping. That is how you expressed it. Then you nuanced your remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u232	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u233	Go and read the report again! We all reacted in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u234	Mr President, in committee and just now, I stressed that I never said that the social partners were in agreement with the index jump, but that, in the context of the negotiations to reach an agreement on wage developments, the government has, of course, always clearly underlined that the index jump would come. That's what I said. So I do not think it is correct, Mr Gilkinet, that you continue to assume that I would have said that there was an agreement with the trade unions on the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u235	Thank you for making that clear. Having said that, I maintain that this was not the meaning of your initial remarks. But it is better not to persist in error. I have other examples – there are many – of how this government does not respect the social partners and the agreements reached between them. This may concern some members of the majority more than others. There is a certain form of provocation towards the social partners and, in general, in the very specific dialogue between Belgium, within the Group of Ten, within the framework of inter-professional agreements which are linked. It is felt that some members of the majority are disturbed that social dialogue is still working on certain aspects. I would admit that some members of the government are putting more of their hands on it for it to work, but collectively you are responsible for multiple provocations towards the social partners who practice social dialogue in Belgium. This index jump is a fundamental example. What you are doing is not fair, is not economically efficient and is extremely costly for public finances for entity 1, without employment guarantees. These are the reasons why we will obviously not support this index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u236	Mr. Speaker, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today bears a pompous title, a fine title. Who could not agree with the latter, namely "the promotion of employment"? But between the title and its content, there is a gap. For this government, what is job promotion? It's an index jump. It is a downward revision of lifelong learning efforts, and it is also a combination of the powers of the Communities to reduce family allowances and support for the elderly. We do not share it with you right now, because, for the CDH, the promotion of employment is, on the contrary, a clear reduction in the cost of work by allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to deploy their wings to the maximum and thus create employment, by reducing taxes and burdens on work and by increasing the wages of small and medium-sized enterprises in order to encourage work. Beyond that, it is to increase the competitiveness of enterprises through lifelong learning, through support for research and development, innovation and also the control of energy costs. It is a very different project and it is clearly the conclusion that is required after all our debate in committee, but also after the in-depth reading and analysis of your bill. Everything is said or almost everything, but I will obviously not be content with that. Before I get to the bottom, I'd like to make a little feedback first. Sometimes it's worth leaning back. This little feedback, I assure you, doesn't go very far back in time. I'm just going to talk about exactly eleven months ago, day to day. It was May 21, 2014. On May 21, 2014, I was pleased to be debating Hainaut's list leaders for the federal election. Jean-Marc Delizée was there, but it wasn't just him. There was also Olivier Chastel, who is absent. But today there are six members of the MR who were not there and did not hear it; perhaps that is a shame. Olivier Chastel, today president of the MR, kept saying, saying again and again with force – and he wasn't talking about the automatic indexing mechanism – that we wouldn't touch, including the index jump, because it's actually a bad measure. He had already said so before, when he was minister of the budget, but he had made a clear commitment to it, eleven months ago to the day. And he kept repeating what the Prime Minister today, Charles Michel, also repeated the days before. Dear colleagues at MR, what has changed in the last eleven months? Are the macroeconomic parameters so different today from what the forecasts gave at that time? No! Have the bosses and the great economists all stood up in recent months to call for an index jump in an emergency that would make it possible to give an accelerator at the socio-economic level? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Have you drawn inspiration from other leading European countries at the economic level? Germany, for example; has Germany rushed to lower wages? No! It has even introduced the minimum wage since then. What has changed in the last eleven months, since the new president of the MR and the new Prime Minister said, "No question, never, of touching the index in any way"? I'll give it to you in a thousand! Dear colleagues of the MR, one thing has changed: the N-VA has imposed this index jump on you; the N-VA has imposed its policy on you. That is how, ladies and gentlemen, you have given up your big statements and your big campaign promises with a little pottery. It is true that today you are trying to revisit the story: "No, no, we were talking about the automatic indexing mechanism! No, no, we weren't talking about the index." Olivier Chastel had been as platte zak as I'm telling you here. It was a denial of index jumping in all languages, whatever the context. This little feedback obviously has nothing to do with joy and raises a number of questions about the commitments that you could have made and that you will still be taking with the voters. Before I get to the bottom, minister, you will not be able to stop me from coming to a point of order as well. You have decided to boycott the social partners in this matter. The emergency was a bogus pretext, bogus until the end of the nails! Six weeks have passed since this so-called emergency of March 3. You understand, when we convinced you that retroactivity was going to put you in the lake. Also, you changed her. The emergency was a bogus emergency! Since then, we would have had a thousand times the time to consult the National Labour Council, which, I have no doubt, would have agreed to give an opinion as a matter of urgency. He would have had plenty of time. I think you have not dared to hold a discussion with the social partners on this subject. There may have been tensions, but not necessarily between the partners themselves. The most important would have taken place between all the social partners and the government on this point. And as you made it a kind of leitmotiv, it was obviously complicated to approach new relations with the social partners in a structured, organised way; it was easier to boycott them and decide without them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u237	So you didn't have the courage to face them! Vice-Prime Minister, you have had other agreements with the social partners, of course, but you will recognize that there is not a week without one or the other part of this government deciding to give a blow of a canife, to make a war declaration, to strip the muscles by yelling "down the unions!" That was still the case last week as well as this week. "Below social consultation!", for others. It looks like it's a bit of a goal in itself. It has become a political marketing game for some and every week that passes, we always go a step further. We use the numbers in every direction! I was pleased to see that Mr Vercamer had indeed corrected the situation with regard to the exploitation of the latest strong N-VA statements on trade unions to point out that there was indeed another possibility, via the public, of being able to allocate unemployment benefits and that, in substance, trade unions were doing as well, if not better, in terms of budgetary management on this point. We therefore hear more and more warlike statements and it has become a form of trophy, a flower to put to his hat of some members of this government whenever one can, by bandaging the muscles, with his voice of tenor. We make declarations of war for pleasure! I don't know where you decided to go; I don't know if every week we'll get a new chorus. I don't know how much you're going to want them to knee down, but the fact is that I don't think it's in your best interests, Deputy Prime Minister. I wonder when, in this government, for example, you, are going to sound a little alarm. The social partners, it's not just "if you agree, we like you and if you're not, we yell at you and we hate you and we tell anything about you". At one point, the Minister for Employment, who clearly still believes in social consultation, also has the responsibility within this government to play a role of peacemaker, at least in the expression of the members of this majority vis-à-vis all the social partners. Deputy Prime Minister, I think it's you! Mr. Verherstraeten, you're coming home now. I was talking about the latest war statement. Mr Vercamer, it was you who corrected me, because it was true that what was being said was nonsense. But there is a certain pleasure, every week, to come back with new statements. So, if "below the unions!" I don't speak for you, but for others, you have to say, you have to assume it, and then we work differently. But if tomorrow is the unions, the day after tomorrow, the bosses may not agree on certain things either. I don't know if we'll hear so loudly down the bosses!" Maybe I do. And I wouldn't agree either. The social partners have considerable expertise in a range of employment-related issues and more broadly in economic matters. This expertise can serve the government, as well as all parliamentarians. But it also serves, it seems to me, to have a project of society with a vision of measure, respect, fairness and efficiency in these measures, working together with the social partners. Apart from the fact that you have concluded certain agreements, your responsibility for the months and years ahead is not to boycott the social partners as has been done very clearly, and to bring about a minimum of mutual respect between the government and the two banks of the social partners, trade unions and employers. I come now, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in substance. Please, I don't mind if you talk. I'm thinking, like women, maybe you have two ears. I don't know if he knows how to use them differently. It's very feminine! In any case, we recognize that with the Deputy Prime Minister of Employment, we always have discussions with mutual respect. This is not necessarily the case for all other members of government. We can recognize him. It doesn't bother me if you're going to chat to the right or to the left. When I was a kid, they said I was a babbelkous. Maybe you are, too. Do you understand that term? I think it's very Brusselsish. The Deputy Prime Minister understands that. Now I'm going to the bottom. I will, of course, first stop at the stakes of index jumping. Will it be effective? We discussed it a lot this afternoon, but you'll allow me to restructure some of the ideas I've put forward from my bench. You keep showing us the report of the National Bank. But we also heard from the Minister of Finance and the Planning Office. The Minister had announced 80,000 jobs, the National Bank 33,000, the Plan Office 16,000. Without making too many mistakes, I think that if the National Bank resumed its study while macroeconomic parameters have changed considerably, it would no longer achieve the same result. All this to say that the relationship that you absolutely want to establish between index jump and job creation is rather hypothetical. Yes, courageous efforts are needed, but provided they are fair and effective. What do economists say, beyond the studies I have just mentioned? I'm thinking of Bruno Colmant, who's not suspected of driving for the opposition. They say that an index jump, in times of deflation, recession or quasi-recession, is counterproductive, especially as it results from effects on consumption. As a result, sectors such as large-scale distribution, but also SMEs, will have a negative impact, including in terms of employment. That's for economists. I saw, in the MR group, MM. Clarinval and Ducrame target me by saying, "Catherine Fonck always quotes a series of employers." Mr Clarinval came with the statements of the President of the Union of Middle Classes. Of course, I've read them, too. I am a member of L'indépendant since I have been an independent since the first day of my professional investment. But the Secretary General of the Union of Middle Classes also spoke. She did not say exactly, not to say at all, the same thing as the president. She said that the Union of Middle Classes was not asking for an index jump. The Neutral Union for Independents, big bosses – I like to repeat it – like Bernard Delvaux the boss of SONACA, Jean-François Heris, president of the Walloon Union of companies consider that the contribution of index jump to the economy will be extremely limited and are demanding an immediate leap of competitiveness through taxation. As I said earlier, Mr. Vuye, Voka bosses also spoke in November 2014 to say that, in their eyes, index jumping was not necessary. Will this index jump applied in isolation be effective? Sufficient "large formats" have shown that no and it is not in this way that jobs would be created, that it could even be counterproductive in times of recession or near recession. Moreover, will this index jump have an impact on people? Let us acknowledge that the discourse of the majority has evolved in this area. In fact, about two months ago, she swore her hand on the heart that she had opted for an intelligent index jump that would be accompanied by a "perfect" compensation thanks to the flat fee. Today, the president of the CD&V and others who are clearly embarrassed by the circle have acknowledged that there would be no compensation, especially for the middle classes and pensioners. The Minister of Finance also acknowledged that there would be a loss of purchasing power, even if he attempted to correct his comments later. In addition, the reduction in long-term revenues that you mentioned, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, with reference to the report of the Inspectorate of Finance, shows that, in the short and long term, an impact on purchasing power would be recorded. Is index jump fair, is it fair? Because, in the background, do you apply this index jump to everyone and in the same way? The answer is obviously negative. Have you worked on it as a general measure that affects all incomes indistinctly? No! You have voluntarily chosen to target workers and social beneficiaries. It is clear, and we can take examples, that you do not apply your great principles of so-called competitiveness of companies for the tantèmes, directors, directors of companies, for the part also of the famous index jump on rents received by the owners. So you're going to decide, Deputy Prime Minister, to shop in what you're going to apply index jump to. You do your shopping by depriving each other of indexing and voluntarily keeping indexing to others. It is therefore eminently political. You have not made this choice by opting for a cross-sectional measurement. No. You choose who you want to hurt and you choose, above all, who you want to preserve. Because those to whom an effort is requested are certainly not the most favored. They are certainly not those who are not making any efforts today either. Coming from this government, I confess, it's not really a surprise. But when an effort is requested, it must be distributed in a fair and equitable manner, which is absolutely not the case here. You had, however, the Deputy Prime Minister, made it clear in the committee that it was a cross-cutting measure – that is not the case! The directors' tantieths? I am also curious to see what we will do with the tokens of presence of the communal councillors, or even the tokens of presence at the level of the boards of directors. All of this, we're protecting. It's still amazing. You also told us, Deputy Prime Minister, that the federal government was competent to make an index jump in rents. You've even gone further. You said you were in favour of it. The MR, too, it seems to me. But from that, again, so-called you say and reaffirm that the federal is competent but you expressly choose not to do so. So it's political shopping. You choose to hurt where you want to hurt politically. As you may say, the result of this political shopping that you operate at the level of this government is particularly shocking with regard to family allowances and support allowances for the elderly. For family allowances, they are known to be important for many families, and they are known to fall within the competence of the federated entities, as the Council of State has clearly pointed out in its various opinions. If you'd come by saying, "Here, we're making an index jump to all types of income, all of them," and I just showed you that there's a whole series of them that you've politically well protected and left behind, if you'd done so, we could still have understood your logic. But here, from the moment when you will voluntarily intrude politically on the competences of federated entities, it seems completely incomprehensible when a series of revenues are spared. Why does this Government strive to make an index leap for allowances that are clearly and clearly within the competence of the federated entities since the sixth reform of the State, namely, family allowances and support allowances for the elderly? That question – I hope the MR will give me an answer today – is incomprehensible. It is all the more surprising that it does not represent an economy in the head of the federal government. Does this mean an economy for you to make an index jump on family allowances and the elderly allowance? No. This gives an economy to the head of the federated entities. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible. So I've been looking at why you're so busy wanting an index jump on family allowances and elderly assistance allowances. In order to understand your reasons, it must be remembered that the Flemish Government has adopted a decree providing for such an index jump for family allowances. The legislation section of the Council of State had found that the Flemish Community was competent to do so. It had delivered an opinion in October 2014, which the combined chambers have just confirmed. If the Council of State says that it is the federated entities that are competent, then what are the federal motivations? Since all these years, I have been hearing almost every possible and imaginable debate, many of you say and say again: "No question of going to mingle with the competences of federated entities here in the federal government." I hear that all the time. In this case, however, this is not a problem. We're going straight. We mix up the skills that have been regionalized to apply them an index leap, even though a series of other skills have been politically spared by this government. I showed it to you. Why don't you let the federated entities manage what comes out of their jurisdiction? The answer is purely political. It is done on the backs of children, on the backs of children's rights, but it is a purely political response. Given that an initiative had been taken in this direction by the Flemish Community, what could this lead to? This could lead to a difference in treatment between the Flemish people in Brussels, for whom it is not the Flemish Community which is responsible for family allowances but the COCOM and the Flemish people in Flanders. Such a break in parallelism between the Flemish of Brussels and the Flemish of Flanders was clearly unacceptable to the Flemish Community and, in particular, probably to the N-VA. So you planned a simple solution: to settle this index jump for family allowances by the federal, to hope at the limit that the Walloon Region would correct the index jump for Walloons and thus give the Flemish COCOM ministers the opportunity to block this correction for Brussels Francophones. This allowed you to maintain the parallelism between the Flemish of Brussels and Flanders and to break, conversely, this parallelism between the Francophones of Brussels and the Walloons. So you had butter, you made money on the backs of families; you had butter money, you made a parallelism between the Flemish of Brussels and the Flemish of Flanders; moreover, you had the smile of the cream tree, since there was a possibility of breaking the parallelism between the Francophones of Brussels and the Walloons. This is well done, because you manage to completely reverse the balance of power in view of the maintenance of parallelism between the Brussels and the Flemish or Walloons. And if the family allowances had not been the subject of this bill, there would have been an index jump in family allowances in the Flemish Community, since it was already decided and voted in December 2014, and there would have been no index jump for family allowances either in Brussels or in the Walloon Region. My question is how the MR was trapped or made complicit in this measure. A willing victim! Because in the head of the MR, during all the negotiations of the sixth reform of the state, I have always heard that you were extremely attached to the parallelism between Brussels and Wallonia at each stage of the preparation of the agreements between the four French-speaking parties on the whole exercise of the transferred powers, in particular as regards social matters. You have always held this speech and today, in this government, what you voluntarily accept is to open the mechanism of rupture between the francophones of Brussels and the Walloons. Didn't you see him? It's possible. Sometimes, in intercabinets and passages to government, we don't always see and decode everything. Didn't you beware? Or is it cinema? But then explain to me how you accepted an index jump on family allowances even though it was already decided on the part of the Flemish Community and that you would thus introduce a break, a risk of a major break between the Francophones. Explain to me. I don't think you have an explanation. Maybe you don't even know. Or it's cynicism. Gentlemen who are still four on the benches of the MR tonight, I have the impression that you are delighted with all this. If you're happy to break the parallelism you've always defended, then it's cynicism. If it's cynicism, it's a famous strategy on your part. Your strategy is to act in such a way at the federal level and to give you the certainty to criticize the Walloon majority, either because it denounces the index jump without cancelling it at its level, when it has the possibility, or because if it cancels it, it will break the sacrosanct principle of parallelism between Brussels and Walloons. I don't know if it's cynicism on your part, but your non-response here today still leaves me largely dubitative. Not one of you, either in committee or in this plenary session, took the floor on this subject. In committee, none of you mentioned the problem of family allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u238	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u239	There was not a single member of the MR who spoke about it in committee. We've been talking about it with you, clearly. But no member of the MR mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u240	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u241	I do not have the impression, on this subject, that the position is identical. Let me still doubt it. If you explain to me that tomorrow, you have exactly the same position on this subject, then...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u242	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u243	No, you're not donkeys! I do not consider my colleagues to be so. But I'd be happy to hear your explanations. We have had thirty-one hours of work in committee, we have been busy for a few hours since this morning, and there has not been a single word from the MR on family allowances. It's still challenging! We tabled amendments in plenary on family allowances and support for the elderly. Unlike this bill, unlike this government and this majority, we do not want the rights of low-income children and seniors who are beneficiaries of the assistance allowance to be violated. I would like to make two more points. First, the suspension of the training effort. I have already spoken on this subject. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u244	As far as the training effort is concerned, you had quite a few other possibilities! My little parliamentary experience has shown me that when we suspend something so sensitive in a bill, it would take a long time before we could come back with an exit solution. So you made the choice of ease by escaping behind the Constitutional Court, which sometimes has a good back. It did not in any way ask you to undermine the mechanism of lifelong learning effort. I had prepared all the possible and conceivable documents of the OECD and other bodies demonstrating how much!, lifelong learning is a key element in the competitiveness of enterprises. I will give you this demonstration to remind you that this is a major issue. In order to comply fully with articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, a solution had to be found. It wasn't that hard. That is obviously worrying. Again, in view of an issue as important as the competitiveness of companies, you have sent a signal that is not consistent with the need for lifelong learning. This is also the case for innovation, research and development and energy cost control, which represent such important issues as wage disadvantage. The government has opted for ease and a reductive vision. Ladies and gentlemen, I am curious to count the number of months that will pass before the obligations of training effort are again discussed, perhaps in the form of a programme law. I did not discuss the articles on the harmonization of workers' and employees' statutes at all. I spoke on the subject in committee. You know that I voted in favour of certain articles, particularly those relating to agreements between the social partners in this respect. I will not go back to that, since we have no problem with the texts resulting from the social dialogue. I will conclude, colleagues, by saying that we will vote against this bill, which we consider counterproductive, like many employers and economists. I am thinking in particular of Mr Bruno Colmant. That's not what the bosses expected. This is not what one could expect in terms of competitiveness shock. This is not what could be expected in terms of employment promotion. This project is also unfair because you have decided to specifically target only workers and recipients and to protect all those who should have been indexed if you had applied the measure in a cross-sectional manner. You have even gone further by deciding that certain powers transferred to the Communities and the Regions, namely family allowances and elderly assistance allowances, would be particularly targeted. I would therefore like to repeat here that, except to believe that the MR has participated in a game either unintentionally or cynically, it is totally incomprehensible in terms of parallelism between Brussels Francophones and Walloons. I said earlier at the start of the game: you could have made other choices, more effective choices, more ambitious choices, choices with greater scope in job creation and equally fairer choices. These choices, you didn't put them down. We are told that, indeed, there will one day be an ambitious tax reform. But since it has been several months since we were put back in time, and every time we get political statements from either side of this government, let me doubt that. A more ambitious tax reform, which would have been more extensive, would have brought more oxygen and a competitive shock to businesses; I am thinking of a reduction in the cost of work, by playing both on the employment creation aspect, which is particularly oriented towards SMEs, and on tax reform to increase the pocket wage and to encourage work rather than discouraging those who, however, also get up in the morning to go to work. "It's gonna happen, it's gonna happen!", That's what we've been told for several months. This text could clearly have been called "A Bill for the Promotion of Employment". It's going to happen, but we can start this debate; it's been months since we could have started it. We have, like others, tabled relevant texts in Parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen of this majority, we are waiting for you at the turning point, because this project is the one that should have come first, the one that should have arrived urgently, the one that would have shown that you had scope and ambition for real job promotion. Now, today, that's something else you're proposing to us. You offer us a pompous title, but empty, terribly empty content. In three or four months' time, we will see the results in terms of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have caught me in speed. I would have liked to start with a quote from Boerke's song Naast,....................................................................................................................................................... First, I'll give you some reflections. Some commentators have said that this would be a sterile debate, because we are talking about an index jump in a macro-economic environment that is almost deflationary. Is there anything else to talk about, Mr President? I do not know, but after hearing the Minister's arguments that we should deal with this urgently because there was an index to jump, I think we had reason to deal with this issue. Even if we did not have it, it might have been useful to have an ideological debate in this House on this subject. Are we in this House, in this country, in favour or opponents of linking incomes to the index? Following that question, it is noted that this country is divided. On the one hand, there is centre-right, this majority, which says that we must be able to make an index jump because we want to create jobs. On the other hand, there is a left and a small left, where there are equally good arguments to say: no, we should dare to think about an index jump because we have arguments to do just as well. Who's right? Both sides are a little bit right. Do we want to create jobs, Minister? I think so. In your explanatory statement, you assume that 33 000 jobs can be created with your measures. Your party mate, Mrs Lanjri, was a little more cautious this morning, talking about 28 000 jobs We are not going to discuss more or less 5 000 jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u246	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u247	I heard you, Mrs. Lanjri, but I didn't know you were speaking on behalf of the Planning Bureau. 28 000 or 33 000 jobs, in any case it remains your ambition to create jobs, and I think you have the right to do so. Who creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen, creates prosperity in general. The question is, and now I am looking at the left: should this prosperity be created on the costs and burdens of the hardworking Flame and the hardworking Waal? I am not used to it, but I must also speak on behalf of the hardworking Waal in this House. On behalf of the hardworking man, then. That is the debate we have to have today. Job creation is an honorable goal. 33 000 or 28 000 jobs, let it be several jobs a year, thank you very much. We must be able to defend and improve the competition, competitive advantages and competitiveness of our society in relation to our immediate neighbouring states. Does competitiveness have to do with labour costs? Yeah, but of course not just that. The competitiveness of a country depends on many factors, such as the business environment, the administrative burden, taxation, environmental legislation, the rules on land-use planning, the productivity of workers, their labour, their skills, their language skills, their skills and their level of education. Infrastructure certainly also has an impact on the competitiveness of a society. Has the land been unlocked to the sea and is that good? Is the country unlocked by air traffic? Does it have good hinterland connections via rail, inland waterways and roads, etc.? These are all factors that affect a country's competitiveness. However, when one speaks with policy makers, including the manufacturing industry, and asks what is the decisive element in deciding whether or not the entrepreneur wants to settle in Flanders, Belgium or Wallonia, most of them rightly continue to respond to wage costs. Why did the decision makers of Opel, Ford and Renault move abroad? Why did ship repair and shipbuilding leave Flanders and move abroad? Why have many parts of the Walloon steel industry moved abroad? For most, this was indeed related to the labour cost factor. So let us not lose sight of that. The current government has the ambition to address the element of the labour cost factor. Oh, that's a beauty to her. It can do this in different ways, but unfortunately it has chosen a road that is not the road of the left and the left, and unfortunately it has not chosen mine either. It does so at the expense of the hardworking Fleming and the hardworking Waal. This government wants to save, by temporarily abolishing the wage index and by allowing an index jump. It points out that it will not be so bad, but then you should read page 7 of the explanatory memorandum of document No. 960/01. Read it. Mr. Secretary, that's sorcerer's math. The negative social consequences of the index jump are often warned. This has to be nuanced anyway. An index jump of 2% does not affect household purchasing power of 2%. First of all, the increase Mr Degroote, I will answer your question directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u248	Mr Degroote has not yet asked his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u249	Mr President, I know he will ask a question. I can feel that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u250	Mr Penris, you don't know that. You claim the government is choosing the wrong way to deal with the pay handicap. I'd just like to know what your miracle cure is.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u251	Mr Degroote, may I reply to that at the end of my speech? May I first develop my speech? Then I'll answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u252	Other speakers have not done so either. Answer my question briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u253	Mr Degroote, I expected that question. I was prepared for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u254	So tell me. We're interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u255	Only I thought Mr Van Rompuy would ask that question. Normally, that's on him. May I further develop my speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u256	What's your miracle cure? I'm just gonna ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u257	Mr Degroote, I will answer your question in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u258	You should be able to answer away immediately and in front of the fist.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u259	I'll tell you what the answer will be. We have been challenged in the past to respond to certain points. We were asked how we would deal with migration. We then developed 70 points for which, unfortunately, we were hit by a number of judicial authorities. In the meantime, more than half of these points have been achieved. I would also like to answer your question, but I am not going to do this because I know that I will then be tapped by higher bodies. You will then carry out half of our proposals. Mr President, the increase in employment as a result of the index jump is supposedly an increase in total disposable income. In addition, the tax brackets are still indexed, resulting in the same gross income leading to a higher net income. Finally, the total disposable income also consists of other sources of income. As a result, sorcerer's mathematics comes into play here, the net disposable income does not decrease by 2% but by 1% compared to what it would have been under unchanged policies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a mathematician, but I do feel with my elbows that something is not quite right here. For the sake of clarity, Minister, I am not talking about 2% or 1%. The hard-working Fleming and the hard-working Waal, both male and female, of course I do not want to exclude anyone - are already facing a number of additional costs since your governments came to policy. These costs relate to gas and electricity, water, education, care for the elderly and consumer goods in general because your government, or some of your government parties, do not exclude at least that VAT may be increased. Mr Maingain has already raised this in committee, unfortunately he is not present at this time, and for once I must say that he is right. Of course, it is not just about the index jump, you want to improve competitiveness, and that is a good ambition, but you want to do so by taking a number of other measures that you vaguely describe as tax shift. How you're gonna make that tax shift happen, that's what everybody has to guess about. You are possibly going to realize that tax shift, and the N-VA does not rule that out; I have listened very carefully to your chairman on this matter through an increase in VAT. And then, of course, the effect of an index jump becomes double perverse. Then the effect of an index jump becomes double perverse, because you don't put people in their pocket once, but also a second time, things become more expensive and they are no longer charged, they are no longer included in the cost of society. Mr Peeters, I am not a redhead, you know that, but for once I am in the camp of the left and small left and I am in the camp of the trade unions. Why? The index, the indexing principle, was a liberalism of the employers at the time, we clearly agree, in a macro-economic environment that was inflatable. Employers then agreed with employees in certain sectors, later taken over by other sectors and sacralized by previous governments, to confirm that principle. We must safeguard purchasing power in an inflationary environment, and this can only be achieved by allocating an index. This index can and must be adjusted from time to time, and this has been done with the so-called health index, but the principle must and must be maintained. Why? Because it benefits everyone, that also benefits our internal market, that benefits you, that benefits me, that benefits our clients, that benefits everyone. We have nothing to lose with an index, we adopted it unanimously at the time, and I thought that we could maintain that principle. I'm a nationalist, and now I'm gonna say something dangerous, but I'm a social nationalist. That separates me from the N-VA. That is why I continue to support the principle of the index. That's why I want to be in the camp from left and left for once. That is why I want to be in the union's camp for once, but not on the union's side, because I think the union makes mistakes in this regard. Let's face it, the union makes mistakes. The union may be right, but makes mistakes by wanting to enforce decisions with strikes and measures that do not benefit the hard-working Fleming and the hard-working Waal. I would also like to give this message to the trade unions who will strike tomorrow: ladies and gentlemen, you are wrong about this. You may have had a good case and a good file, but the weapon you're using isn't working. So I'm in your camp, but I'm not on your side. I have one more pair thesis. Mrs Fonck pointed out earlier that there are dark areas in this dossier as well, as regards powers and the division of powers. I would have thought that the N-VA would always have taken the side of the region's regions when the distribution of competences files were unclear. Unfortunately, that is not the case now. It is called upon arbitration courts and the Council of State to say that the federal authorities remain competent. In this respect, I am going to go a long way with Mrs Fonck, which is something strange again, to choose, where the zone is grey, for weighing up the regional level. I had hoped the N-VA would follow us in that, quot non. I take note of that. I said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u260	Mr President, Minister, this is our parliamentary debate in plenary on index jump! We were waiting for this debate! It should normally close tomorrow. I do not hope to see the majority change their minds and not vote on the text, but I feel it determined. As an introduction, I would remind you that, even if you were to vote tomorrow, you could always go back. You did so with the Royal Decree on Pre-pensions, Minister, which targeted many workers, those of ArcelorMittal and those of all sectors. The government has therefore taken a step backwards. This is an important signal that I want to give to all my friends who will fight tomorrow in the public service: the struggle does not stop and it is not because the government will force an economically and socially responsible measure that the movement will stop. That is not the case at all. We've seen more than one government in Europe forced to reverse. This will still be the case, despite the possibly positive vote that could take place tomorrow night. It is a considerable democratic issue and an important signal that, as a left-wing Member of Parliament, I have to give to the whole world of work that may follow today's debates and that they may be going to go into force. Well, no! Dear friends, dear comrades, I am speaking to you! The fight will continue even if they decide to vote for the index jump. On the other hand, I would like to dwell on the real issue at stake in today's debate. This is not a technical debate on the height of wages, but the distribution of wealth in our country. The contradiction between capital on the one hand and labour on the other is not new. It is already present since the existence of capitalism, since the generalization of capitalism, for at least 120 years in our country. And there has always been, for 120 years, a struggle between the world of work, the wage-earning world, and the one who has to pay wages, i.e. employers, to know what part of the national wealth will be able to return to the workers. That is where the debate lies. It does not cover the amount of wealth produced in the country. If that were the case, let us all agree, we have never, nooit, produced as much wealth in Belgium as today in 2015. We have never produced as much wealth in Belgium as today, in 2015. Between now and 1960, productivity and the amount of wealth produced increased by 3.5. Between today and the time when the world of work made the first wage claims and collective labour agreements, we increased productivity by a factor of 5 to 6. The debate that concerns us all today is what part of this wealth goes back to the employees and what part goes back to the holders of the capital. In the 1980s, 58 percent of gross national product went to wages. We have increased from 58% of GDP to 51%. This means that 7% of GDP no longer goes to employees but returns directly to capital. This is where your measure comes in because through an imposed index jump, through inflation, you will linearly touch the whole balance of power of the world of labor to be able to touch part of its wealth. Mr Vuye, I asked you what guarantees you could offer so that the proceeds of the index jump do not go entirely to the profits of the companies. You haven't been able to answer. That's okay, because it makes sense: there's no answer. You have no control whatsoever as to whether the money simply ends up in the shareholders' pockets. You do not have any control over this, because the same has happened in the last 15 years. The profits are tripled. Where is that money today, Mr. Vuye? In any case, it's not invested in new jobs. We carried out a study with the Labour Party four years ago on the tax gifts to companies, in particular at the top 50. At that time, we were not members of the Chamber. Well, the 50 largest companies paid a tax rate of more or less 3.4 %. We also calculated how many jobs were added in those 50 companies between 2010 and 2011. We counted 3 200 jobs less there! So there is no way you can prove that the measures you are proposing today will create jobs. You've talked a lot about the wage disability. The pay handicap is, I agree with you, Minister, a real problem. However, you must note that the pay gap is narrowing. That's right. It reduces for a number of reasons, firstly because you put pressure on wages. I also agree with the criticism of the previous governments. A wage freeze is not positive either. You must imagine that there are wage increases in Germany today. The metal sector has achieved 5.5% wage increases thanks to the struggle of IG Metall. I want to call all the actors in the government: rather than putting the wages under pressure in Belgium, if your dada is the wage handicap, let's go together in Germany and France to help the workers fight for wage increases. This is what is happening in Germany today. Stop trying to put pressure on Belgian workers and come with me! We'll take a bus together to Berlin. IG Metall workers and the public sector are fighting for wage increases. We are going to help them fight the German government, which bans cross-sectoral collective labour agreements and fight to raise wages in Germany. If wages in Germany increase, the pay gap with our country will decrease. Mr Minister, with Parliament, let us support the French workers and servants and German workers and servants. I've heard the Minister say he's coming in to argue. So we can take a minivan to Paris or Berlin tomorrow, Mrs Demir, you can come with us to argue with the French and German workers for a raise. Then we have much less competitiveness problems here in Belgium. So let us find concrete solutions to the pay gap. You talk a lot about job creation. The problem is that not only does no study show that there will be one, but above all it seems to me that you are avoiding some important factors. First of all, by referring to the model of the National Bank, you assume that any wage moderation in Belgium will not result in any wage moderation in the surrounding countries. You can't prove it. On the contrary, Europe is putting pressure on wages to fall. First deep theoretical error. Secondly, and that is why you do not want to give us the figures, Minister, which would show us the budgetary consequences, I am talking about the effects on public employment. You say your government wants to create jobs. But your first initiative is to decide in public employment. You'd have to know a little bit what you want! That is why the public sectors will be on social action tomorrow. They want to lead the fight for quality public service and quality public employment. You rely solely on the private sector, but you do not generalize the consequences of the measures you are going to impose. Thirdly, there is the question. Minister, you say you want an export-oriented industry. As Mr Laaouej has already said, 70% of our domestic production remains in Belgium and we are therefore facing the problem of reducing domestic demand. That's what this is about. Besides, I'm not the only one who says that. The International Labour Organisation has been proposing since 2012 that a strategy based on the reduction of unit labour costs should lead to a downward spiral in the share of wages and thus to a reduction in global demand, a frequently formulated recommendation for countries in crisis. That is also what is happening in Europe. We are the only ones who continue to reduce demand. This reduction in demand will therefore result in a reduction in sales, a reduction in sales will lead to fewer jobs, fewer jobs will cause less demand, etc. We continue the downward spiral of this crisis in which all European countries are sinking. Unfortunately, Belgium is no exception. Minister, all the gifts you will give to create jobs cost EUR 4 billion if you include the reduction of social security contributions. €4 billion for 50 000 jobs is €80 000 per job. That's a lot of money being paid by the government. Instead of throwing that EUR 80 000 per job into a big pit, you could possibly put that money in public services. That's real job creation. Those are jobs that can't be delocalized. These are jobs that can be really useful, for example to bring older people to the market by bus or to maintain libraries; jobs that prevent us all from getting on the motorway by car, jobs that have a social purpose. Instead, you fall into the downward spiral of continuing to impose austerity. We can see where this policy is now leading at the level of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my speech here. From tonight at 10:00 p.m., I also want to be close to this social force that is still present in our society, Mr. Vuye, the one that will move the lines, the one that also feels that in the federal government, there may be parties that claim a social idea and that might be sensitive to the arguments of the world of work. The world of work says: "We do not want this index jump. We do not want it because we have paid enough for this crisis. We, the workers, have paid enough for this crisis, while others are getting better and better." I feel like the N-VA wanted to reach out. I would've preferred that one. So, I'm telling you, I'm going to meet you tomorrow in the social fight to get this government back. You have 24 hours to change your mind. I'm touching wood. We'll lead the fight. See you tomorrow on the pickets!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u261	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u262	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Jean-Marc Delizée spoke in committee for almost two hours. We're both having a little contest. We're trying to figure out who'll be able to hold on the longest. But we know you're a little insomniac. However, to be a little more serious, I will not be particularly long since I have already been able to raise a whole series of arguments in committee, even though I consider it imperative that I return to some of them. Having said that, the debate we have today in plenary session is fundamental for millions of people who rise every morning to work in their own public, private or voluntary sector businesses. These people sometimes kill each other. Why is this debate fundamental? Because part of their purchasing power, part of their salary is at stake. I know you represent the entire government, Deputy Prime Minister. But the latter requested and obtained the urgency of this parliament for this bill. The measure in question is contained in the sacrosanct government declaration. You have made it the cornerstone of this government's economic policy. It would therefore have been appreciated if one or the other of your colleagues would have provided you with his or her moral assistance through his or her presence. In any case, it would have had the merit of showing Belgian citizens that this debate is fundamental. As some members of the majority have said, it was necessary to call on citizens to make a significant effort by making an index leap to ensure the proper functioning of our economy. There is no question here of "promoting employment". Let's call a cat a cat, Deputy Prime Minister. I know that your words sometimes go beyond your thought, as was the case when you referred to a report from the Finance Inspectorate. Between us, we can call a cat a cat. It's an index jump. As members of the majority have said, this is necessary for the proper functioning of the economy and for the competitiveness of enterprises. Now I'm going to have to re-explain some of the things I said in committee. Not all the colleagues were here, and I do not hope to convince you either. I'm taking arguments from studies that you know well. As a former Minister-President of the Flemish Government, as a former member of the FEB, there is certainly something that you are particularly familiar with. I have no doubt for a second that you understand them. I have no doubt for a second that you accept the conclusions, but I am well aware that, unfortunately, you may be somewhat bound by some of your partners who are preventing you from saying that you are finally in agreement with some of the things I am going to say today. You have to tell them. I take up the study of the National Bank of Belgium. You know that well! In 2012, the National Bank conducted a study on indexing in Belgium. I'm not insulting you to read the 55 pages. It is a very interesting study and it says that the question of indexation in Belgium must be asked, because the challenge is to raise the employment rate, reduce long-term unemployment, clean up public finances and avoid a negative trend in the current account of the balance of payments. We agree and you obviously share that too. I don't doubt it for a second. What does the report say about this? There's a whole series of elements. We are talking about the current account balance, saying that there is a deterioration that is largely due to the decline in the balance of trade in goods. However, as I have already told you, the service sector has improved but to a lesser extent. So, depending on these factors, we have a problem. But the National Bank says so. This is due, on the one hand, to an increase in the cost of raw materials. On the other hand, the volume of exports has fallen behind that of potential market markets, as was also the case in France. On the other hand, in relation to Germany and the Netherlands, we have maintained our position, but something needs to be done. I would remind you that we need to raise the employment rate, reduce long-term unemployment, clean up public finances and avoid a negative trend in the current account of the balance of payments. Our position is unfavourable for two things. Firstly, the increase in the cost of raw materials and, secondly, the trend in the volume of exports which has fallen behind the potential market. This is the application of the 1996 law, compared to the other three countries. Unfortunately, you always rely on that to say that we have problems of competitiveness and economic problems. Now, as far as I remember, there is water that has sunk under the bridges since then. Deputy Prime Minister, in 2012, do you know how much the barrel of oil was? It was 130 bucks. This morning, it was $57 or $58. We're not exactly in the same situation. The same applies to raw materials, zinc, copper and iron. Costs have also decreased. The elements of comparison with the balance of payments and therefore the deficits we have, they no longer exist in relation to the increase in the cost of raw materials. It is a fundamental element in determining the state of economic health of our society. It is also fundamental in relation to the determination of other factors, including the cost of labour, which is one of the components of competitiveness, as for the rest. Perhaps there is one thing on which progress has not been made and on which the current government has not made good progress: the price of energy. Unfortunately, you have not taken much action in this regard. The cost of energy has exploded a bit. I'm not saying it, it's economists because we kept agitating the fact that there was going to be a supply disruption, which increased the energy bill. When you play the alarmist, don't take energy measures, don't have an energy pact and don't know what you're going to, it's clear that the gas and electricity bill doesn't decrease, although the price of the barrel of oil has fallen sharply. The National Bank also says things that go your way: "It is clear that a controlled evolution of wage costs, in line with that of productivity, is an important determinant of both international competitiveness and the ability of an economy to create jobs in a sustainable manner". In this context, an analysis of the role of indexation is needed. That's indispensable! They come up with an analysis of the hourly cost, of the unit cost produced, in relation to our neighbours, all that is happening, the repercussions, etc., with the oil shock which may be the proof, to reach the conclusion that the debate is very important but that wage costs must be controlled. "A controlled evolution of wage costs in line with the evolution of productivity is a determinant that will allow us to create jobs, thus income and purchasing power," the National Bank says. It is very good except that their assumption... It is not I who say it, it is economists that I have already had the opportunity to quote from you and I hope that since we last met in committee you have gone to see this superb study that was done by economists of UCL, Catholic University of Leuven. This is an excellent study even if I do not entirely agree with all their conclusions but it is there and I will take it in its entirety. They say: "Belgium remains one of the only countries in the world to apply the quasi-automatic wage indexation mechanism" – almost automatic because we are not in automaticity and, on the other hand, we also remember that there is a law that has changed the basket; we no longer talk about the consumer index, we talk about the health index. So there are a lot of corrections that have been made. Economists continue: "It is common to attribute the competitiveness problems of the Belgian economy to this system". What the National Bank says. To our knowledge, and I went to check, that's the truth. No studies have so far formally shown that wage indexation in Belgium is a serious obstacle to the competitiveness of Belgian companies. No study!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u263	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u264	That's right. And there's no second-round effect. That's right. Mrs. Onkelinx is making a point. What your friends at the National Bank say is the petition in principle, saying that the evolution of costs must be controlled because otherwise it has an impact on competitiveness. I have just told you, however, that they say just before: "Attention to the cost of raw materials, pay attention to the current account". Unfortunately, things have changed since 2012. Maybe they should be asked to update things. It is true that in this context, during the debate, we did not have the opportunity to hear them in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u265	Mr Massin, you are talking about the cost of raw materials. If it decreases for us in Belgium, it also decreases for our neighbours. In terms of competitiveness, that does nothing to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u266	Maybe you didn't listen to everything I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u267	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u268	I'll take it back. In terms of the challenges facing the Belgian economy: raising the employment rate, reducing long-term unemployment, sanitizing public finances, avoiding a negative trend in the current account of the balance of payments, i.e. the balance of trade in goods; we must be aware that if for goods we are in deficit, for services we are in positive position. The two main factors contributing to this trend are, on the one hand, higher prices for largely imported raw materials and, on the other hand, the decline in the volume of exports compared with other markets. That's what I said. I did not talk about competitiveness, I talked about the economy in general and about the general trend of a decline in the balance of trade and therefore of a negative current account in terms of balance of payments. Then I came to competitiveness. Maybe we should listen to everything. I'm sorry. I repeat my reasoning. I hope you have read these economists, Deputy Prime Minister, because I am not going to repeat the whole debate. They asked themselves the question of wage indexation, since it is one of the components of the competitiveness of enterprises. This is also what the National Bank says, beyond raw materials. I agree with you, if these decrease for us, they decrease for others. Is this clearly detrimental to the competitiveness of companies? They've done a very comprehensive analysis. I go straight to the conclusion: "At the end of our analysis, within the framework of the methodology that has been proposed..." These are the only ones who have done so for the moment in Belgium. The methodology is to take two parameters, with the important impact: the change in the price of petroleum products in relation to overall competitiveness and limited competitiveness, and in relation to those sectors which are subject to strong competition and those which are not. They say: "On the one hand, our results tend to indicate that indexation is not a determinant of the long-term development of the competitiveness of Belgian enterprises. Our results tend, on the other hand, to indicate that indexation affects Belgium's competitiveness in the short term." But not in the long run! The long term is two or three years, not ten years. What is the point of the situation? I will take up some important elements in my eyes. The gap is now 2.9% under the 1996 law compared to the countries around us: France, Germany, the Netherlands. This 2.9% difference does not take into account the impact of the measures taken in Germany with regard to minimum wages and increases, since there is no indexation, in the context of the negotiations conducted in Germany by the social partners in certain sectors. These negotiations are under way and some have already taken place. We should already be below 2.9% at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u269	This is 2.9 per cent since 1996, but there was a 15 per cent disability before 1996, which must also be taken into account. It is easy not to mention it in this debate. This 15% gap with France, the Netherlands and Germany has existed since 1996 and has never been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u270	My dear colleague, when I take a file, I'm used to taking all its components. When you make this assertion that we are systematically reintroduced, have at least the objectivity or even intellectual honesty to recognize that this gap, which existed before, also does not take into account all the aids which have been given and which normally have to be included in the calculation, which would bring us down to almost zero. You can't compare apples and pears or think you're taking the butter, the money from the butter, the smile from the cream tree and whatever you want. When you take a file, at least take all the items into consideration!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u271	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u272	Not if you take something that has always been balanced, namely employment subsidies. I'm sorry about you. If you don't want to recognize it, so much so, but that is the reality! In addition, I would like to remind you that this reality is supported by about three million people, members of trade union organisations. They are the ones who are calling for this, including colleagues from the CGSLB, a Liberal union. They ask, like others, that this also be taken into account. But you'll go and explain yourself with the CGSLB! That will not be my problem, even if I also have good relations with his representatives. So there are important things that you don't take into consideration, minister. What you take into consideration today is only the wage impact. By the way – and it is the National Bank that affirms this – one of the debates is to increase the employment rate. You are so aware of this that you are removing the opportunity for career purposes to benefit from benefits, but also to be retained in employment. End-of-career accommodations: goodbye! Do you realize that you are going to reduce the employment rate? I'm going on. In your opinion, would this automatic link mechanism, and therefore indexing here, explain the deterioration of our export performance, as Mr Friart says? Can it give rise to an inflationary spiral, as you seem to suggest in the explanatory memorandum and in the context of the justification given by the members of the majority, namely that this is necessary for the functioning of the economy and that this is detrimental to the competitiveness of enterprises? Both the National Bank and the economists I mentioned earlier say this: export performance is mixed. It depends on the sectors. We lose shares in the export of manufactured goods, but we win in the export of services. I'm not saying it, it's the statistics. You're not going to challenge them anyway. However, the indexing system is the same. It is well known that there are some sectoral variations, but the principle is the same. Are you sure that it is not because we have a wage indexation system that we gain market share in services? No one ever asked that question. You're gonna tell me, "Mr. Massin, stop joking, be serious." If we are losing competitiveness in this area, it is because we lack investment in research and development and because companies are restructuring to liquidate their highest wages. In other words, they get rid of the skill that exists at home. Employers – and you have just removed the sanctions – do not invest enough in the training of workers and employees, in any case in the manufacture of manufactured goods. That's because we have an energy cost problem. That, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is the cause of our export performance problems. We must not fear the risks of an inflationary spiral. Therefore, it seems to me, the arguments are collapsing. If indexing is not a handicap in terms of long-term competitiveness – because it can be in the short term, but under certain conditions, as the UCL economists I have told you about – what is left of you as an argument to justify your measure? You will excuse me for telling you that I do not know how the CD&V you are will be able to explain the application of this type of policy that will simply touch the weakest. Don't come here again to mention the well-being envelope, the small tax advantage granted. I remind you that pensioners will not be entitled to this small advantage, while they will be struck by the index jump. Who says the weakest will be affected? Your friends at the National Bank say that when you touch the automatic indexing mechanism, you have to provide for accompanying measures for the lowest income. However, it cannot be said that there are real accompanying measures on the table. Deputy Prime Minister, you have decided to proceed with a reform, to apply an index jump. The logic of this measure is not on the road. Admit that this was really not a good idea, especially in view of the figures given by the Central Economic Council and the Finance Inspectorate, which you mentioned. Mr. Van Quickenborne must bite his fingers. I take the figures from the Central Economic Council: - gross wage gap, 2014: 2.9; - impact of the competitiveness pact: – 0.39; - conversion of the general exemption from professional discount: – 0.65; - residual deviation: 1.9. - application of salary standard G 8: 0.70; - impact of indexing in Belgium without index jump: 1.80; - Private wage developments in Belgium: 2.50; - average private wage changes in Germany, France: 4.70, which represents a difference of – 2.20. Compared to the residual gap of 1.9, the expected inverse wage gap is, to date, – 0.3, without having made an index jump. You are going to tell the citizens that reasoning is not justified, that macroeconomic factors are there but do not justify it? Finally, you're going to tell them that this index jump is useless. It's no use since the wage gap is your reasoning. But it will be absorbed in 2016 naturally, without an index jump! Is the Central Economic Council wrong? Tell me if he's wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u273	Mr Massin, you have cited many sources. The one you did not mention is the Federal Office of the Plan which calculated the share of Belgian exports in world exports. Over a period of 17 years, between 1995 and 2012, he estimated that we had lost a third of our share of exports. We have increased from 3.72% to 2.58%, with the Federal Office of the Plan challenging our country's competitiveness. There are many sources to cite. Sometimes they are contradictory. We sometimes prefer to take the appropriate sources to support our presentation. But you also have to be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u274	Mr Friart, I would like to be complete. If you have an orange that becomes a grapefruit, do you consider orange? Or, at some point, do you take the grapefruit into account? The problem is that the grapefruit must be taken into account here. However, the Federal Office of the Plan has taken orange into account. It wasn't even an orange, it was a tangerine! Today, it is a true grapefruit! As Mr Laaouej says, if in China, Brazil, etc., the bricks did not exist and we had to do without them, I am not sure that the Minister of Economy would be particularly in agreement. Most importantly, this is what the National Bank says in its explanatory memorandum. And the figures from the Central Economic Council are here. They're on paper. They are real and they were tabled in committee at the hearings. This concerns the inverted wage gap expected in 2016 without having an index jump. With regard to competitiveness and wages, the argument is no longer valid! Finally, what happens to this index jump? About 2 billion go to businesses and you tell us that through this, more than 30 000 jobs should be created. They're more or less in dispute, but let's admit. One forgets, however, to say that public debt increases by two points. More than 30,000 jobs would be created but with what real commitment? Is there a document? I heard someone say earlier that we couldn't ask companies to sign a paper. We sign a blank cheque but we cannot ask companies to sign anything. "They have a moral obligation to create employment". I heard that earlier on the benches of the majority. We're not in the Bisoun Bear world here! Eleven billion dividends were distributed. They could have been invested in research and development, in job creation. It's a blank check you're making them! A real white check! It is not made of wood but, on the other hand, the 33,000 jobs, it may be a wooden check!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u275	Mr Massin, I don't think you know the logic of the company and the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u276	I'm myself a small entrepreneur, Mr. Friart. You may not know me, I have employees and a worker. You're not welcome to come and tell me I don't know the business world. If you don't mind, take your information first!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u277	You'd probably talk differently! What does an entrepreneur want? He wants to develop his business and therefore needs some means. We know that the Belgian market is small and already so busy. If it wants to develop, it has to be exported. With the arguments that the government is giving us, entrepreneurs will be able to develop much more easily at the export stage. This means that we will be more competitive, that we will sell more and that we will be able to engage. That's the entrepreneur's logic! The entrepreneur's logic is not to distribute dividends but to develop his business.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u278	I agree with you. I share that, the logic of an entrepreneur. But unfortunately, this is not the logic of all entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u279	Don't throw away suspicion...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u280	EUR 11 billion at BEL 20 level. The BEL 20, isn't it the Belgians? At AB Inbev, are there no Belgians? At BNP Paribas, are there no Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u281	It's not just the BEL 20. It's 20 companies, there's a million more in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u282	Take all the others. Good thing we're taking these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u283	This million other companies do not operate according to the same model as the BEL 20. You're an entrepreneur yourself, you say, you need to know. I hope that you will benefit from government measures to engage and develop your business, as many entrepreneurs will do in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u284	I am sorry, but it is on the basis of BEL 20 companies, companies that are listed, that competitiveness is determined. They're the ones who make the demands. Stop it, now you're not gonna teach me lessons either! Entrepreneur, I want to tell you, I am. Unfortunately, I also had to do business restructuring. Mr Minister, unfortunately, in my opinion, it's a wooden check you're going to get, and it's a blank check you're signing. I think it's a shame, because finally, who's going to break into this index jump? It is the workers and the people who need it most, because, as I said in the beginning, they get up in the morning to work, to look for a job, to take training, to eventually care or to help as a helping spouse. They are the ones who are going to go through this index jump, but not the owners of shares, not financial capitalism. I know how to work with industrial capitalism, but financial capitalism is not the same, Mr Friart. Be careful, I'm telling you: it's a real wooden check you're going to get!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u285	Thank you very much, Mr Massin. You said a few words about energy prices and energy costs. I'm interested in that. In recent years, when someone climbed the speaker chair to talk about energy costs, it was usually nobody from the PS. We have had to deal with this regularly, because our country is making a bad turn in terms of security of supply. Moreover, you yourself said that the energy shortage naturally has an effect on the market and, therefore, on market prices. A new plant wasn't built from today to tomorrow. The decision is made to build a power plant and only 7 years later it produces electricity. If we count back seven years, we'll be around 2008. Could you explain to me what initiatives the PS took at the time to provide sufficient capacity? Between the law on the key exit in 2003 and Mr Wathelet's initiative to address security of supply, we saw nothing. What initiatives would you have liked to take with the PS? Another aspect concerns the different electricity prices. In a previous plenary session, I asked the Minister responsible about electricity tariffs for industry, just the sector in which you believe jobs should be created and which provides for exports. In a study by Deloitte I find a graph from which the following can be drawn up. (Mr Wollants shows a graph on his tablet) The top line on the chart indicates the level of the electricity price for individuals in Wallonia. I imagine your party in Wallonia has something to say. In Wallonia this is about 95 euros per megawatt hour. In Flanders it is around 77 euros. Then we come to our neighbouring countries: in France we pay 72 euros, in Germany 67 euros, in the Netherlands about 65 euros. What initiatives have you taken to preserve the purchasing power of individuals? Have you provided an intervention on electricity prices? I have the impression that you are bringing a very fragmentary story here. I'd like to hear your views on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u286	Mr Wollants, I find it very strange that you are discussing security of supply with your party in a debate on the index jump. This government, with your party in the lead, wants to extend the life of two nuclear power stations in terms of energy supply, in particular electricity supply. These power stations are among the oldest in Belgium and are still single-walled. In terms of danger, that can count. We are also at risk if we remember what has happened to the nuclear power plants here in Belgium in recent years. The security of supply is a problem because the energy from the past, which you are so supportive of, is apparently a return to the past, and is now responsible for the fact that we might have been faced with supply problems last winter. Fortunately, these problems have not occurred. You ask other parties what they do for security of supply. But what are you doing to address alternative and new sources of energy in the future, so that we can move away from that outdated, dangerous and, above all, unsure thing that has been proven in recent years? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u287	Mrs. Temmerman, I was hoping you would ask that question. After all, I have also seen the impact of your press conference on energy security. It is indeed easier to hold a press conference than to engage effectively in the hearings on Objective 1 and Objective 2. I did not see you at that meeting, but I saw Mr Vande Lanotte there. I'll put some things right for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u288	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u289	Excuse me, but I have been asked about another dossier and I would like to reply to Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u290	I'm going back to my place!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u291	Mr Massin, that is the fate of all the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u292	Mr. President, I don't know if I should go back to my place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u293	First of all, the extension of the life of those two plants naturally fits into a complete plan. It concerns the extension of these two plants because we absolutely need them because 1 600 MW of power stations will be closed in the coming months. If we don't extend it, we're gonna get in trouble. In your own words, we have crawled through the eye of the needle this winter, through the combination of shutting down nuclear power stations and the absence of wind and sun. That combination is deadly in this country. During the hearing this summer, Mrs Fonck explained that we cannot count on that plan. You are making a number of mistakes, in the sense that it is not just the extension of those nuclear power plants but also the start-up of the energy transition fund, also about the use of energy storage, something you have never wanted to do in the government and also about ensuring that we can look at a capacity mechanism so that we can keep that capacity in the market in a way that also lasts and is not flogged back by Europe. I hear you saying they're single-walled power stations. I wonder if you know the file. In the previous legislature, we had hearings with the FANC in response to the stress test. Mr De Roovere, then head of the FANC, made it quite clear to Mr Calvo that he was mistaken and that these plants are not single-walled at all. The only fact we have to look at is that the central Tihange 1 has a thinner concrete layer than the other one. I can send you the quote if you'd like. By the way, it's that plant that extended your party, the one that's more unsafe if you want to call it that than Target 1 and Target 2. That seems to me to be a completely different story. When it comes to energy costs, we have proposed many initiatives in the previous legislature. Some were copied by the government, some weren't. However, we know that today we are looking at the CREG board table very badly vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries. If you are going to ask what we have done over the past few years, then we have repeatedly mentioned what needs to be done. There is only one initiative taken by the previous government, and that is the extension of Tihange 1. All other measures have not been taken. We are now coming up with a whole package of measures, an energy vision followed by an energy pact, focusing on energy storage and ensuring that the plants we have remain in the market. I believe that this is a good story and that we are finally coming out with a clear vision. If that's an answer to your question, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u294	Mr President, I find what's going on a little shocking. I think we were talking about index jump. Now we're discussing energy policy. I have nothing against it. Other topics can be mentioned – tax shift, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u295	Mr President, I have finished my speech. A nice debate was starting. I propose to invite Mrs Marghem next time to participate in a real energy debate. Why not in the morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u296	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I may disappoint you, but I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u297	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u298	Mr Vuye, you've been here for two hours. I may be exaggerating a little, but we discussed two days and two nights in committee. There have been many arguments, which have been quoted here a few times today, and so I will try not to repeat them. All fellow Members of the majority, you and especially your CD&V colleagues, always place the emphasis on job creation. We need to do job creation. No one denies that, either majority or opposition. The only question is how we should do that. One of the measures on which everyone agrees is to reduce labour costs, but then I get a little bit confused. According to the majority, according to you as Minister and CD&V, the best measure is the index jump. I would like to make one last attempt to refute that statement, and I will try to limit myself to scientific studies. So I will not be holding an ideological discourse. Let us just talk about the number of jobs and how we finance them. I won't even talk about strict numbers, but I'll talk about order of magnitude. Does one measure produce more jobs than the other? Whether one leads to 10 000 jobs and the other to 20 000 doesn't really matter. It is about which measure provides the most jobs and how we best finance that measure so that it can deliver the most jobs. In this context, there is the very interesting study of the National Bank and the Planning Bureau of 2011. This is a very good study in which different scientists examine the different types of reductions in the burden on labour and the different ways to pay for that reduction. I'll go through that study. You also know, Minister, that every funding measure costs jobs anyway. The Planning Bureau also says that. An index jump creates a number of jobs, but also destroys them. Let's take a look at this. What financing measure has the least negative effect on employment? According to the Planbureau and the National Bank, the study shows very clearly that an index jump, a VAT increase, an increase in excise duties, etc. costs most jobs. On the other hand, corporate tax, withholding tax or personal income tax measures will cost the least jobs. Perhaps you agree with me on this; it also makes sense. The reason is not far to go. Indeed, the first sources of income bring money more to lower incomes. It is the lower incomes that will therefore consume less, leaving less money in the economy. This is well demonstrated in the study of the National Bank. Moreover, it is shown that our indexing mechanism has a very stabilising effect on the consumption of households. I shall come back to that later in comparison with the countries around us. The measure you take actually destroys most of the jobs. What is the reduction in charges for the amount of jobs? The result is actually very clear. The National Bank and the Planning Bureau have examined three scenarios, namely a general reduction in the burden on employers, a targeted reduction in the burden on employers of the lowest wages and a reduction in the burden on the employee, thereby increasing net wages. The conclusion is quite clear that a reduction in the burden on employers aimed at low wages provides about a third more jobs than a general reduction in the burden at the same government cost. There are several possibilities for combining the two measures. Again, our goal must always be the creation of more jobs. We agree on that. Various simulations are being made and there are a number of tables, but given the advanced hour and the many discussions that we have already had, I immediately conclude. And the conclusion is very clear. The index jump, which is equivalent to what the National Bank was simulating, results in significantly fewer jobs than a very targeted reduction in the burden on low wages, financed by capital gains tax and added value tax. Even if I use the word "remarkably', I am not talking about the number. After all, that is not the discussion. It's just about more jobs. Then, Minister, you must explain to me why this method was not chosen. I think I know the answer, but I would like to hear from you that you admit that you chose another option because there was no majority in the coalition, and that it is true that another method would result in more jobs. What is more, it is quite clear that this other method does not affect employees' wages. The choice made remains very unclear to me, unless CD&V says that it is true what the National Bank and the Federal Planning Bureau say, but that there was no other way. Fair enough, but you don't. You keep saying that this measure comes for the people, to create jobs. Yes, Minister, but not enough. There are other methods that generate more jobs. A second case concerns the importance of the index. I am mainly addressing the fellow Members of the N-VA and also the fellow Members of the Open Vld and CD&V, in that order.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u299	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u300	Mr. Vuye, it's with a gradation. Your party is the first to whom I address myself. I'll take another study. It's not our study, it's Plasman and Tojerow. De studie is getiteld "L" automatic indexation of wages. The ideal culprit" in dateert van juni 2012. I've prepared a lot more, but I'm just gonna pick out the conclusions here in order to buy us some time. Colleagues, the conclusion of Plasmas is that from an economic point of view there are advantages and disadvantages to the index coupling. It considers that the measure is approximately neutral. However, from the point of view of distribution and redistribution between the haves and the port ots, which are good in our society, and those who are struggling for all kinds of reasons, argue a great many factors for maintaining the index. It is clear that, in periods of high inflation, in which we are not now in a study, there is an increase in wage inequality. Of course, this is due to the decline in purchasing power of less strong workers' groups with a weak negotiating position. I would like to draw your attention to this, because you argue that the wage increase can be negotiated by sector. Colleagues of CD&V, that will be to the detriment of the weak sectors. I assume you agree. (...): They say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u301	They say that. I thought that the government too was of that opinion. I repeat that this is to the detriment of the weak sectors. The study in question makes that very clear. In other words, the index mechanism is very important for people who are struggling in society. I'll tell you with less scientific terms, but that's basically what I'm saying. To reinforce the above, I will simply take a few examples from the neighbouring countries. It's not about our numbers. They are Eurostat figures. That institution looked at the risk of poverty. What is the risk of poverty in recent years in the countries around us and also in Belgium? Has this been increased or reduced by the measures taken? If we look at France, a country without an index mechanism, we see that from 2005 to 2013, the risk of poverty increased from 5.9 to 7.6. In Germany, the probability increased from 4,5 % to 8.4 % between 2005 and 2013. That's almost a double. In the great miracle you always talk about, Germany, the country of mini-jobs but without index mechanism, the chance of becoming poor is almost doubled. In Belgium, with an index mechanism, between 2005 and 20013, i.e. during the economic crisis, and under the Di Rupo government, the probability increased from 4% to 4.5 %. That is what I want to end, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the index mechanism is of very clear use. Other countries do other things, I know, but here in Belgium the tradition is that we work with an index mechanism. The study, which I recommend to everyone, clearly indicates that when one is concerned with the people who are having a hard time, as has just been said by Mrs Lanjri and CD&V, and with the people who live in poverty, one must help those people by giving them a job. I fully agree with that. But choose the largest number of jobs. Therefore, ensure that the index mechanism is maintained. This is important especially for the lowest incomes and the people who are struggling in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u302	Mrs Temmerman, please stand down for a moment, because I would like to answer you briefly. I'm trying to follow your logic. You refer to Germany, where poverty rates would be so high. Can you explain to me why the poverty rate in Brussels is 40%? I believe that this is still much higher than in Germany. In Wallonia it is 25%. In Flanders, where we are fully committed to the activation of our unemployed, it is 10%. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u303	Mrs Temmerman, I would like to add something to that. We would not say it here, but the poverty rate is a much more complex situation, which depends on many factors. You reduce it to the index, which it probably has the least to do with. I believe that poverty is a much more complex phenomenon than the caricature you make of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u304	We do caricatures in the numbers that are implausible. There is no 40% poverty in Brussels! [[Brouhahaha]] [[.]] Your numbers are not correct! What you say is not correct! There is the question of the risk of poverty, which is not the same as poverty. The sociological structure in Brussels is particular, especially given the importance of the number of single-parent families with children. So, indeed, in observing the sociological situation in Brussels, this is taken into account. And believe that with measures like those you are taking, especially on index jumps, those families that are not necessarily in poverty could switch to them. Secondly, remember, Mrs Demir, that in Brussels there is a somewhat special situation of unimaginable population growth. Every year, the equivalent of an additional small municipality to be integrated into the greater Brussels makes it difficult to find unemployment. When you have ten to twenty thousand more inhabitants every year, it's not easy. But also know that, at the Brussels level – the figures have just come out, the Brussels people present here know – youth unemployment is decreasing. It is one of the few areas where it regresses. So, yes, there are sociological risks. Yes, there have been difficulties in youth unemployment, given this particular population growth. But yes, too, the policies implemented are demonstrating that we are on a favourable curve at the Brussels level. These are the few things I wanted to bring you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u305	Mrs Onkelinx replied very clearly, but you did not actually listen to what I said. I didn't talk about the poverty rate. I've been talking about the risk of becoming poor. This is from Eurostat statistics. I don't think so. Mr Vuye, Mrs Onkelinx has just replied. You mustn't answer. Mr Vuye, I found the way in which you spoke to Mrs Onkelinx, not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u306	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u307	I can still say what I think, Mr Vuye. I have the floor now. You can then ask the President for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u308	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u309	No, it's not even about interrupting, because I understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u310	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u311	No, that's not true. I am sorry, Mr Vuye, but I am not making any personal comments. I admit I interrupt people sometimes. That's my temper. However, it is not about interrupting, because I can bear that. It is about what you say and about the fact that you say that I should not give my opinion in Parliament, but should keep it to me. That's what you just said: I don't need your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u312	Mrs Temmerman, I would ask you to conclude, because there is also, if you will allow it, Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u313	Mr Vuye, it is about the questions you have just asked. It is true that poverty is a very complex fact. I won't deny that at all. I have just quoted a study in which the impact of the index on poverty has been investigated. It is very clear: the influence of the index is very important for those who are struggling in a society and are working on a redistributing basis. That's all I said. I didn't talk about the factors of poverty. I also know that poverty is very complex. I'm just quoting a study on the influence of the index. I would once again advise you to review the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u314	Mrs Temmerman, you are talking about the study of Plasmas and Tojerow.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u315	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u316	I know that study. Indeed, this study goes directly against the findings of the National Bank. That is a very credible study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u317	Mr President, we have heard an extremely interesting presentation by Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to point out, on the different structure of families in Brussels in relation to Wallonia and/or Flanders, in particular the importance of single-parent families. Is that why Wallonia decided not to index family allowances and that in Brussels the PS and the CDH have the ambition to index family allowances?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u318	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u319	Yes, we are talking about indexation! Ms. cdH's group leader, earlier, tried to tap the MR from this point of view. Personally, I think we need to be logical. If one takes an attitude on the one hand, one must adopt the same attitude on the other. However, on the basis of what I am learning in the press, perhaps it is because of what you said about the different family structure in Wallonia and Brussels that you adopt different attitudes in Wallonia and Brussels about indexing family allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u320	The non-indexation of family allowances is your decision. It's in the project under review. For those who have not been able, for reasons I respect, to review the bill, this bill, coming from the majority in which the MR has an important place, decides not to index family allowances. That's what you're going to vote for tomorrow. But if you do not agree with this text, I urge you to join us!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u321	Mr. Flahaux, in the draft bill, there was no mention of family allowances. Then, after passing on to the Council of State, the government added them – as well as the elderly assistance allowances – to its index jump project. However, this competence was communalised and regionalised with the sixth reform of the State. In addition, the government does not apply a cross-sectional measure, but has opted for an index jump for workers and also for social benefits. He could have chosen, without any problems, to exclude family allowances and support allowances for the elderly. I am not going to re-explain what I said earlier, because I was clear about the difficulties that this was causing and the parallelism that the federal government wanted. Indeed, the Flemish government had already issued a decree on the index jump of family allowances last December. The Walloon government and the Brussels government wanted to index them. If the bill is passed, the Flemish COCOM ministers will therefore have the power to prevent the Brussels decree. What would have happened if there had not been an index jump on family allowances and support for the elderly? There would have been indexing in Brussels and Wallonia, as the Flemish government had decided, for its part, what was its right, to make an index jump. Do you understand? Have I been clearer than before in the gallery?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u322	Madam, your explanation was very clear, which I thank you for. But I am surprised to learn that you would have agreed to a differentiation between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people. In my opinion, in a country like Belgium, small as a handkerchief, this is not desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u323	If I understand you correctly, as the Flemish government had decided to make an index jump on family allowances, as a "great savior of the Nation", you decided that you had to hurt the Francophones and make an index jump. Is that what I need to understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u324	That's not what I'm saying at all. I say that ideally it would have been necessary to maintain coordination between the different levels of power on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u325	In this case, do not apply an index jump on family allowances. It's as simple as that. Nothing prevents you from going back on this measure. This was the government's position at first reading. I still do not understand why, at second reading, you have incorporated this new choice of making an index jump on family allowances. It's, for me, incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u326	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one question: will the measure advocated by the government, the index jump, be beneficial to the country's economic growth? I will disappoint you and I will provide you with proof of this in comparison with the realities of neighbouring countries. I'll give you a few quotes. The review Eco Perspectives of BNP Paribas Bank, first quarter 2015, devoted to the United Kingdom, a country with a higher growth rate than ours, explains that it is a robust domestic demand that contributes to economic growth. What does the study say? The outlook for 2015 is that exports will still contribute little to growth dynamics due to the slow recovery of the euro area economy, but that business investment and, above all, household consumption will continue to support activity. Why household consumption? Because in the United Kingdom there has been, and is expected to be, a larger increase in wages in 2015. The first fruits of an acceleration seem to be visible. Wage increases have started a slight acceleration since the end of the summer, + 1.4%, including bonuses, in October, as a result of increased labour market tensions. The first example is that supporting domestic demand through household consumption and rising wages supports economic growth. What does Jack Lew, the US Secretary of Treasury, say when he visited Brussels on 26 January 2015? This quote is taken from Libération: "The US Secretary of Treasury once again deplored the fact that many European countries relied on exports rather than on their domestic demand to achieve growth." On the other hand, Italy experiences a stagnation of GDP in the fourth quarter, marked by domestic demand, tells us a Reuters dispatch of 21 April, today itself. This is the fourth consecutive quarter without growth, as an increase in the country's exports failed to compensate for weak domestic demand. I could continue by quoting other states but perhaps less comparable to those in the European Union or the euro area. What does the 2014 National Bank Report – Economic Developments in Belgium tell us? "The expansion of activity in 2014 was mainly the result of an acceleration of domestic demand. Apart from the change in stocks, private consumption has grown relatively steadily in line with the evolution of purchasing power and the strengthening of business investment has continued." What should be concluded from these few quotations? And I could support it even more. It can be concluded that the stereotyped ideological debate that we have heard so much this afternoon between the supporters of business competitiveness, which alone would be the condition of economic growth, usually on the right-wing banks, and the supporters of the support of economic growth through purchasing power and hence the level of wages, rather left and central, is not appropriate, because it is the instrument of a policy of supply and a policy of demand, depending on the economic circumstances, they are levers. These are not ends in themselves. These are levers to support growth. Of course, there is a problem of competitive shock. But today, what is penalising our domestic growth is also that we are breaking the citizen's confidence in his ability to buy power and thus support growth through demand. That is what must be blamed. If we were in a period of high inflation and very low growth, we could ask ourselves the question of freezing indexation. I know that, ideologically, some would oppose it, but, economically, it would not be unreasonable under certain conditions. I have always defended a clear position on this subject. I consider that under no circumstances should automatic wage indexation be affected up to an amount, for example, of EUR 3 000 gross. Beyond this, the automatic effect of wage indexation can be capped when economic circumstances warrant, i.e. those I have just mentioned: high inflation, low growth. But we are not in this case. We are with low growth and insignificant inflation, not to say totally zero. Therefore, I do not understand the government's economic choice in terms of this fundamental fact, the purely ideological choice, the choice to satisfy part of the employer's bench. Several employers indicated that in the current circumstances, they did not see the beneficial effect of the measure. Why? Because they know that such a measure, in addition to the political consequences and the social movements it generates, undermines the confidence of the employee, of the person who has only his income from work, and of consumption. There is the effect that one can see: one has never had such a high level of thesaurisation and savings in Belgium, which is not justified in any way, except that the deep conviction of some citizens is that, as they could be confronted with even more difficult times, and a fortiori without the prospect of increasing their income from work, they are theasurizing. The Belgian is thus made that when he has a doubt and he does not trust, he puts part of his income from labor into savings. And you are giving the signal to a number of citizens and consumers, by the cumulation of the index jump and the wage freeze which, by the way, had already been decided by the previous government, that we must not support expenditure in consumption. I believe that you are making a very bad economic choice and that you will not have the desired results. The Federal Office of the Plan itself estimated that this index jump would mean a decrease in household incomes by 0.9% by 2020. He even established in his study that if index jump is combined with other measures taken into account, there is an impoverishment of the order of 1.2%. The index jump will logically have a negative effect on private consumption, according to the Federal Office of the Plan (decrease of 0.6%). I hear the argument that business competitiveness requires it. It is true that we are with a wage cost rate that leads to a debate on the subject. I am not talking about the net wage in the pocket, far from it; we know that we have one of the biggest differences between the cost of wages and the net wage in the pocket of the countries of the European Union. The first question that goes back to the competitiveness of enterprises is how far, in particular, the euro area, states have to compete endlessly to reduce wage costs to the point of perhaps threatening the financing of social security tomorrow. This is a real substantive debate. It is a serious mistake to think that the financing of social security is a threat to economic growth. Europe's strong economic development was coupled, in the second half of the twentieth century, with the development of social protection. The real question is whether, today, the financing of social protection should rely largely on contributions paid by employers and employees alone. This is the real debate. This is a debate that must be held at European level. I am not saying that it is simple, but it is the real debate because the logic that is only that of reducing the wage cost to the point of threatening social protection balances is a logic that will lead us to a bottom that we will not come out more prosperous, far from it. I believe that this argument of the competitiveness of enterprises, which is endless and justified on the basis of comparisons of wage costs from one country to another in the European Union, is a bad debate if we do not first raise the problem of what funding for social protection tomorrow. This is the first of the debates to be held in the European Union. I therefore stand for a completely different view from that of the government. Because of the economic circumstances, I am not intellectually blocked, ideologically on the merit of adjusting indexation in certain circumstances; it is true that, over the course of governments, there have been different formulas for adjusting wage indexation, whether by the basket of goods and services chosen to determine indexation or by other methods. But today your measure does not meet any economic need. None! None, compared to what is being done in other States. So it's telling you that we're going to have to think about what you tried to hold back: the growth of the wage standard. You combine today with the index jump and the limitation of the standard of wage growth. Another unfavourable signal for domestic demand. I believe that your government is in the process of pursuing a policy that is counter-productive to what is being done in other European states. It is quite surprising, especially for a government that wants to support and give priority to socio-economic challenges, not to appreciate the interest in preserving social consensus in that country. The social consensus has made a significant contribution to the country's economic balance. Today, through the unilateral ideological measures that you impose, you are breaking this dynamic of social consensus, which not only guaranteed a social peace beneficial to economic activity, but also guaranteed mutual trust between the social partners. Because we had a boss who, as in Germany, and perhaps unlike other countries, had the intelligence to understand that when there are productivity gains – and there are in some sectors – we have to make a fair redistribution, especially through wage increases. It has always been the first condition for social peace and support for economic growth. You deliberately turn your back on those balances that have always been preserved in the economic and social evolution of our country. I believe that you will be the government not only of the economic recession, but also of the weakening of our country's economic tone. That is why I cannot join you in your proposed choice today of the total, irreversible jump of an index during this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for the presentations in committee, under the expert guidance of the chairman, which took place at 31 hours, and today in plenary. I think this week's gonna be an important week. Today we are debating the draft law which included, among other things, the index jump and a number of elements implementing the social agreement of the social partners. I hope, Mr President, that next Thursday we will also be able to discuss the law on wage developments and wage standards. These elements must be able to bring about economic dynamism with the necessary social protection. So I do not think it is a week of social decline, but a week in which we make necessary and important decisions. In my speech, I will first outline general considerations and then deal with a number of specific points which have been raised here. I also said it in committee: the index jump is a very exceptional measure which is in a specific context. We must deal with this with the necessary care. An index jump is not evident, either for Parliament or for the majority, and certainly not for the citizens, who have to suffer the consequences. How did we achieve an index jump? It is important to underline that, like previous governments, the government is faced with a budgetary path under Europe's supervision to avoid hypotheism in future generations. There is also a major concern for social security and social progress. We cannot allow social security to be reduced further without social protection consequences. Finally, it concerns the creation of employment. Everyone from the majority on opposition agrees that more employment needs to be achieved. The previous government has taken an important step towards improving competitiveness. She did it following the closure of Ford Genk, which provided a wake-up call for each of us. The previous government has rightly considered it necessary to take a step in this respect, including for companies in Wallonia. You are right, Mrs Onkelinx, there are also companies in great difficulty in Wallonia, Brussels, etc. It's not just Genk, it is, but Genk is the best known case. That was a legitimate concern. That concern is still present. The question is whether the index jump is economically necessary. I'll come back to that later. I talked to Volvo's summit then and now. That is where it is said that if wage costs in Belgium do not fall any further, there will be a problem. Let's think about the Audi factory in Vorst. I understand that majority and opposition are aware that labour costs are a problem. I do not agree that there is only a problem of competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries, which needs to be strengthened. I believe that domestic companies are also affected by the problem of labour costs. Let me give you an example on the domestic market: Delhaize versus Albert Heijn. Delhaize faces severe competition from Albert Heijn, a company that has a distribution centre in the Netherlands, where labour costs are lower. This creates problems for a Belgian company on the domestic market. It is therefore wrong to say that it concerns 30% of companies and not the 70% of companies operating on the domestic market. I believe that domestic companies, active in the domestic market, also suffer the effects of competitiveness and the effects of high wage costs. If the government is making an effort in terms of wage costs, what are the guarantees for employment? That question is asked every time, in the 80s, in the 90s, by the previous government and also now again. If we are calling for efforts to reduce labour costs, how can we ensure that jobs are created? Unfortunately, economic life is not so simple that so many billion would be pumped in and additional jobs would be demanded with the signature of the entrepreneurs underneath. That's not how it works. The previous government has also established this. The previous government's Competitiveness Pact also did not call for a clear link with the EUR 450 million invested in the reduction of charges, in the sense that it did not then ask entrepreneurs to sign that jobs would be created. I would like to do the same, and if it were that simple, we would do the same, but that's not how the economy works, that's not how the companies work. The previous government did not work in this way, nor did it ask for a clear guarantee. If it is possible, for example with the dislocated zones, we have done so. With the dislocated zones, there's a clear bond. If it is possible it is certainly appropriate, but in this case of course one cannot ask for firm guarantees. However, we are assuming that this is the case, and that is why it is rightly said that we do not give a blank cheque. We call on companies to create jobs now, and we expect this to happen. The previous government has made an important effort without any budgetary resources. At the start of this government, we found that what the previous government did, with all due respect, because it was an important start that was not enough to solve the problem of wage costs. Additional resources were needed to reduce the cost of wages. When faced with this, additional efforts must be made. In 2015 we will make the effort on the index jump and in 2016 we will make the effort of EUR 900 million on the reduction of charges. That was already planned by the previous government, but we postpone it by one year to boost employment and to put it as a top priority. From this point of view, we want to take an additional step towards reducing the burden of wages. We must ensure that we keep our budgetary path, and at the same time social security must not be mortgaged more heavily. From this point of view, we have come to the index jump. I believe that this is a very clear reasoning which is also economically justified. Moreover, this index jump is not the end of the story. A lot has been said here about the tax shift, and rightly so. The Prime Minister specifically said that the tax shift would be discussed by the federal government before the summer. However, we must find a balance in this. The tax shift is about the pressure on labour income, both in terms of the burden on employers and the pressure on personal taxes. Those two elements need to be addressed. We will finance this with a shift in taxes on labour, on which everyone agrees and on which various proposals have already been made, towards taxes on pollution, consumption and wealth. The major challenge is to strike a balance between a reduction in the pressure on labour income and a shift to the three other pillars, both the burden and the tax burden. This will be the subject of debate in the Federal Government over the next few weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also made the index jump smart. This has been done somewhat harshly, if I may put it that way. However, it has been an important consideration that we have felt very well that, if this reasoning is to be followed by an index jump, the measure for the weak in society, whose contribution is also called for by the index jump, must be corrected. We did that. You could argue that we could have done more. However, we have done this with maximum care and in this respect I refer to the lump sum professional costs of 900 million, the tax bonus of 119 million, the increase in low incomes of 127 million and from 2016 a wealth envelope of EUR 627 million. We have therefore done so with great care. You can say that we could have done more and that we could not have done an index jump either. However, it is very important that this was also addressed here after the index jump, in 2016, thanks to the agreement between the eight social partners, wages will rise again, in particular by 0.5 % and 0.3 %. Hopefully we will discuss this again on Thursday. That argument must also be taken into account. An index jump was therefore a subtle trade-off. We have asked ourselves whether, after an index jump, it would still be possible to increase wages. We have also wondered whether we could socially correct the index jump and whether we could add additional elements with the tax shift, which is the subject of the debate. This is the complete framework within which the index jump is located. As far as purchasing power is concerned, there is little point in re-executing the whole committee debate here. Nevertheless, I would like to quote a passage on page 69 of the Planbureau's report based on their figures of 11 February 2015. I quote: "Private consumption would increase by 1.3 % to 0.9 % in 2015 thanks to the increase in real family disposable income. Purchasing power is mainly supported by the increase in employment in 2015. Moreover, real wages would increase slightly in 2015 due to the significant fall in oil prices combined with the indexations carried out until the beginning of 2015 in certain sectors. In addition, some measures, e.g. the increase in flat-rate professional costs in the calculation of personal income tax, mitigate the negative impact of the other cuts. Your concern about purchasing power is, of course, quite justified. I appreciate that you use arguments based on studies of institutions in the discussion. I believe that this is also an important quote. That's why I wanted to repeat it. I would like to talk about social dialogue in general. We should normally have been in Riga, where the informal summit of the Ministers for Labour is taking place. There's been some communication about that. Do you know what the European Commissioner for Work said there? I'm quoting it. It's in English. 的Countries with strong social dialogue are among the EU的s best performing and most competitive economies, with a better social situation. Countries where social dialogue is good, countries where investment in social dialogue is better perform economically. I believe that everyone should have this clearly in mind. Careful handling of social consultation is not easy. If all ministers at European level agree on the importance of social dialogue, and if we want to give all the opportunities to social dialogue at European level, and if we take Belgium as an example of how social dialogue can be conducted, I think we should look at it with care and look at any statement that might give rise to the hypothecation of social dialogue with that thought. I would like to make a final general comment. There has been a lot to do in committee about the powers. There have also been a lot of amendments which dealt with the question of whether the federal government is competent and what is the case with the regions. The Council of State has been very clear in its latest opinion, both in terms of rent and child benefit. This is about competitive powers and we are responsible for general income policy and can therefore also do an index jump when we go as wide as possible. The discussion on social benefits was intended to prevent the Council of State from saying that, of course, we should also generalise our general competence. That is why we have dealt with this with some concern. The Council of State has also confirmed that we can do so. Mrs Fonck, there is, of course, a difference with powers such as family allowances, which have gone to the regions and to which the amounts have been added. Those amounts are also indexed, that is their competence and they may add other indexations. We have generally taken that competence. However, nothing precludes the regions from adapting as they feel they can and should do on the basis of that competitive competence and the competence they have in the specific case that has been addressed in committee. In particular, I would like to emphasise the following with regard to urgency. Mrs Onkelinx, you mentioned the need for urgency or not. For my part, I am convinced that the draft resolution should be voted on as soon as possible. The sectors are waiting to negotiate. The question is, of course, always when the central index will be exceeded. According to the latest information at our disposal, this can happen very quickly, which is in May. We have been given urgency by the Chamber. The Council of State has acknowledged it. In practice, therefore, the urgency of approving this draft is still present. We have respected the social agreement by means of the formation agreements and the failure to provide for sanctions. The penalty shall be subject to a judgment of the Council of State in response to a question referred for a preliminary ruling to the Constitutional Court. It is important that the training courses closed down in the sectors should be extended. That's a status quo compared to 2014. So they don't disappear. The social partners have committed themselves to developing an alternative proposal of sanctioning. As far as the budget is concerned, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of this plenary session, we discussed this in detail. I just want to emphasise once again that we have given the figures of entity 1 and entity 2. If they are taken together, the budget is a neutral measure. Some have no problem with the fact that it is positive for entities 2, but of course it has not taken into account the positive effects on the private market and the employment it creates. When it is included, it is, of course, also a positive measure for entity 1. We have also had this debate in committee. I hope that everyone can see that now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important debate. In committee, the discussion took up 31 hours. I do not know exactly how long we have been meeting, and tomorrow we will also be discussing it. The debate is taking place with great care and with great interest with many interventions. I am convinced that the index jump, combined with our 2016 measures, will boost social corrections and the forthcoming tax shift, on which the debate must be round against the summer recess, our economy, employment and citizens. This is the message that we must make clear to our citizens: when we ask our citizens for a contribution, they can indeed say that we are depriving them of something and not giving them indexation, but they will be able to add that this has led to the preservation of work and the creation of new jobs. That's what the government is all about. [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u328	It's time for the replies. I note Mrs Onkelinx, Mr Gilkinet, Mrs Kitir, Mr Nollet, Mr Friart and Mrs Fonck for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u329	Mr President, the Deputy Prime Minister's response was particularly brief. He only addressed some of the questions that have been developed. I'll stick to what he said. He always seems to be in the middle of the road, sitting between two chairs. You say, for example, that measures such as those we are taking today are necessary, since we have obligations to fulfil, budgetary obligations, in particular European obligations on the trajectory. But who said the opposite? But this is obviously the choice of measures. Are your measurements relevant or not? That is obviously the whole question. The question is not whether we should reduce our deficit. It's obvious. We cannot force companies to engage, but we can create a favourable climate for doing so. I do not agree with you; there are measures to support businesses that are directly linked to their employment decisions. In my speech, I gave you examples of decisions that we have taken together in the past, at your request, following the tragedy of Ford Genk. You have come with specific requests, especially on flexible schedules, continuous, etc. It was directly related to the types of employment. We have also supported reductions in social contributions for specific target groups directly linked to employment. We have also made structural reductions in burdens, but it is always a mix of measures with structural reductions and also with measures linked to commitments by companies. What you're doing here is very different. You don't link employment. Finally, you reduce the incomes of workers, which, as was said earlier, creates problems at the economic level, in terms of consumption, social malaise, etc. There is no link to employment. That's what you're being blamed for. This is a point that you have not answered. On the other hand, you said that social contributions, employers, were too high. I agree with you on this point. You know that at one time we had asked the National Bank for a study, the aim being to see how the social contributions component of the financing of social security could be significantly reduced. The said contributions must, in fact, be reduced. But it is obviously a question of knowing what to replace them. This brings me to the debate we will have on the tax shift. This debate will be essential as part of the tax shift could reduce social contributions. You talked about the smart index jump saying that the most fragile would benefit from compensation. That is not correct, Deputy Prime Minister. Don't you think that a pensioner who receives an allowance of 1,500 euros a month is a fragile person? With the combination of the measures you propose, the annual pension will amount to some 944 euros. Can this be seen as compensation? I don't believe it. In conclusion, I fully agree with what you have said, following the debates at European level and the findings that have emerged from it. According to the latter, countries with good social dialogue tend to perform well at the economic and social level. This is a very nice answer to the N-VA that I fully share.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u330	Minister, I would like to say how much we appreciated your pragmatism. You're a fieldman. What you told us when you started your talk about the conversations you had at the Ford-Genk and Audi sites is a good reflection of the competitiveness problems we are experiencing in Belgium. There are no more concrete cases than Albert Heijn-Delhaize to shed light on this. I also wanted to find another proof of your pragmatism. You are right to recall that a company cannot say how many people it will hire, but we can be sure that many companies will respond positively to the government's approach. You acknowledge that the previous government had taken important, though insufficient, steps. I would like to congratulate you on your success in leading the G10 dialogue, which later became G8. That made it possible to complete this bill that we will be voting on tomorrow or, at least, in the very next few days. We can be sure that with the index jump in 2015, the wage reduction measures that will be important in 2016, our companies will regain the competitiveness they need. Finally, you stressed the tax changeover. Indeed, effort must not be provided only by workers. Social charges are very high, but they can be reduced otherwise. Here too, we can trust you with regard to the measures you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u331	Mr President, Minister, allow me to tell the story of Ford a little more in its entirety. I get the impression that if the charges had been reduced, Ford Genk would still have survived. The ceo of Ford Genk himself said that the cost of pay in the story about the decision to close the plant in Genk was a minimal element. One of the main reasons, or what made the difference, was that the workers in this country are the easiest to be fired and that it cost them less financially to close the plant in Belgium. We have partially resolved this with the previous government by giving the impetus and resolving the main bottlenecks surrounding the workers' and servants' status through the unitary statute. The coalition agreement states that work will continue to complete the loose ends of the unitary statute, but it is not the case that if only the wage cost had been resolved, all the problems would suddenly be solved. This is only to show that Ford Genk is a multinational and cannot be compared to the SMEs in this country. That is a completely different situation, with very different arguments. I do not want to say that the cost of wages in this country should not be reduced, Mr Minister, on the contrary, but I just want to show that even 12% of the people and even subsidies from the government have not kept their word and not given the guarantee promised. If one chooses to take something away from the people with the index jump, it is your own words that I repeat and say to do so in order to create jobs, then you should say precisely that you absolutely want firm guarantees on this. You say that you cannot ask for firm guarantees, but then perhaps you should have considered our proposal, which has just been explained by Mrs Temmerman, in particular a reduction of the burden financed by the added value tax. You wouldn't need an index jump at all and would have created a lot more jobs than you expect to create now. That is my point, Minister. Apparently, we won't be able to convince each other. I don't follow your reasoning. You have tried to explain the reasoning why you are going through the index jump, but, again, that reasoning could equally apply to the alternative, which is the targeted reduction of charges, financed by the added value tax. Secondly, in your speech on the importance of social dialogue, you showed that it is clear even in Europe that social dialogue is important. This does not really appeal to us as an opposition. That might have been a message to your coalition partners. I hope they have listened carefully and read the report carefully. In this respect, we are an ally. We have always said that social dialogue is important, and we will continue to say so. Thirdly, you have again explained the federal powers. You have also now provided the clarity that you gave in committee. Again, one can do this at federal level, but you do not. We'll see. You say you'll link this to the tax shift. Discussions on this subject are scheduled to start before the summer. I am sorry that you are in that position, because you will have to face up to something that makes no sense anymore. If income is not increased, it is logical that rents should not be increased either. There is something that should not be negotiated and yet it must be done here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u332	Mr President, Minister, I thank you in any case for the form and for your patience. You have tried to answer all the comments. We are not convinced, however, but I note the listening effort on your part throughout the day. First, on the issue of competitiveness, we must take note of the pressure on our country and the government in dialogue with businesses. It's a reality. On the other hand, there is no fatality in the choice of the answer given. You present the index jump as the inevitable way, forced in relation to the pressure that employers are putting on you. We claim that there are other ways. I come back to that in my conclusion. Secondly, we must collectively take into account this form of blackmail which is practised by some employers, mainly multinationals over all the states in Europe. Is the solution a sort of levelling down, a continuous reduction in social contributions, without alternative financing of social security? Where are we gonna stop? What has happened for many years, long before you? With a phenomenon that is accentuated by your government, it is that, in order to maintain employment with us, we adapt the conditions and in particular the type of contributions that employers have to pay, with various reductions in contributions. We're finding a solution, but we're creating another problem. The problem is with the financing of social security. A few years later, we are told that the social security solution will be found by reducing the rights of workers who have contributed and who are ill, unemployed or pensioners. It's not a solution. For the equation to continue to work, you need to develop alternative financing. You've chosen a classic path. Thirdly, we cannot simply create a favourable business climate and then hope that jobs will arrive. We're in a form of an arm of iron. States can also set their conditions in the context of a respectful social dialogue, saying to the business world: "We are making a collective effort," for example in the form of this index jump, even if we contest it. "But there's a counterpart. We're asking you for firm commitments." Europe does so within the framework of the European Structural Funds and in the free zones. We passed a law on this a few weeks ago. Europe lays down conditions for repayment of aid if employers and investors do not respect the rules of the game. A State must be able to be respected in that regard; otherwise, the next time there will be a new blackmail. We're still going to lower the level of contributions and the level of social rights that follow, and we're not going to make it. There are fully transferable European mechanisms in Belgium if there is a political will of a government to negotiate, in an arm of arms with the employers and investors that are being helped, but not without compensation. Fourthly, what strikes me, in connection with the sense of fatalism that I have in listening to you, is that "we have no choice, we are forced, otherwise jobs go away", it is the lack of imagination about the solutions implemented and the failure to take into account other aspects of competitiveness. We have cited research and development, training and energy costs. On the qualitative aspect of the competitiveness of enterprises and of a State, there is a total lack of reflection on an economic project to be developed at the level of Belgium, in view of the fact that today the regions in Europe that are best off are those that have a clearly defined economic project and a real added value developed by joint efforts with the driving sectors that lead the rest of the economy with them. Fifthly, and this is my conclusion, as far as timing is concerned, you say with conviction that a tax shift – i.e. a tax transfer of employment costs to other areas – you have cited pollution, consumption (I am curious to see what you are going to get out), income from capital – is the solution. But why not implement this solution before considering an index jump? It is a much more structural, fairer, more efficient solution. You, as a CD&V, have taken the index jump with the hope of perhaps having an effective tax shift tomorrow, just, with large enough amounts to make the difference in terms of job creation opportunities. In terms of timing, there is something completely missed, unfair, unbalanced. This, I believe, should have been the subject of joint application and negotiation, or it could have replaced this index jump which will hit workers and social recipients hard. That's why we can't follow you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u333	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and for listening. I will start with two important specific points, and then I will expand on my point. With regard to family allowances and assistance for the elderly, you are taking a stand behind the Council of State. It is surprising when it happened at second reading after passing to the Council of State, but history can always be reinvented. The Council of State states that these allowances fall within the competence of the federated entities. Neither you nor obviously any colleague of the majority explain why you did a political shopping by depriving each other of indexing and leaving their indexing to the other. That is, of course, what is incomprehensible! I even heard earlier that we were going to discuss the index jump on rents, but at the time of the tax shift. Let me tell you that it is an amazing journey to now make a selective index jump and then justify the non-application of index jump to certain shutters by referring it to other times. As far as training is concerned, I said earlier that I thought it was a step backwards. The story will tell if it's going back all of a sudden or if it's going back to jump better. I look forward to seeing how many weeks, how many months or how many years it will take to keep this clear commitment and this strong, fundamental signal on the competitiveness of companies to keep these lifelong learning efforts. Today, at least, it's a step backwards. We will see what this will give in relation to your commitment. Deputy Prime Minister, you said that if there were no reduction in wage costs, some companies would go straight into the wall. I can agree with you on this point. The question now is why we are dealing with these wage costs and, above all, what is the answer to them? If wage costs are so high in Belgium, is this due to wage indexation? No. If you like the reports of the National Bank, I would like to quote here an excerpt from a recent report by the National Bank which re-evaluated the evolution of wage costs between 1996 and 2011 and which states that "the presence of a formal indexation system in Belgium did not cause an increase in nominal wages higher than that of the countries around it". If wage costs are so high in Belgium, it is not because of the index jump. This is obviously directly because of the cost of labour in terms of taxes and charges. Where we really have to answer this question for our companies, not only in order to maintain employment but also in order to create additional jobs tomorrow, it is obviously, I will not put out of it, through an ambitious tax reform, with a reduction in the cost of labour, with a reduction in taxes and burdens on labour. You are talking about a tax shift, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and you are linking it to consumption. Let's call a cat, a cat: consumption is VAT, I don't know any other. If you made a commitment that tomorrow, for example, VAT on caviar would be increased, but VAT on basic necessities would be reduced from 6% to 5.5%, we could start discussing it. But if your objective, as you put it, of "transfer to consumption" – it's very modest, it's very pretty – translates into a shift tax that increases VAT brutally and for everything, it's neither an outcome nor a positive employment policy. Finally, I loved your plea about the contribution of the social partners and the contribution of social consultation. I was quite in what you said. What I said earlier is in the same direction. But it is not us that you must convince, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that today some of your majority's partners are involved. In any case, these statements that I heard from some of your majority partners a few days ago were in the direction of increasingly belligerent statements towards the social partners as a whole or some of the social partners. "Below the unions!" becomes the leitmotiv of certain parties of your majority. Do not lock yourself in, Mr. Minister of Employment, not only for you, for your party, but obviously also in relation to what you told us earlier. This week will be examined measures relating to index jumps, restrictions on pre-pensions, longer careers without having planned a strong alternative policy for linking employment and longer careers. All these are restrictive policies and we still expect this government to have an ambitious employment plan that creates the conditions for real economic redeployment, but this index leap, excuse me, is not the answer we can expect in terms of employment promotion. Sufficient economists, employers and large employers have made it clear that, in the current context, this can be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u334	Deputy Prime Minister, you cannot take away from us the feeling of your personal unease over the measure you have had to defend in the rostrum. First of all, there was an insistence on your group's benches that there would be only one index jump. You yourself said in your speech: "As early as 2016, we can talk again about wage growth", admitting that the measure you are advocating, if it had the expected beneficial effect, should be extended well beyond a single year. It is because you yourself understand not only that it would cause social imbalances of particular gravity, but also that it does not have the greatest beneficial effect as expected. This is not only because you cannot say that this measure will have the effect of creating jobs, given the controversy between the BNB, the National Bank and the Federal Bureau, but above all because you are working against what other European states are doing. It is time to repeat here that it is not the net wage of workers that is the enemy of growth, nor the enemy of the competitiveness of enterprises, all the more so in the current economic circumstances. It is not the net wage, as others have said, the amount of social security contributions is. This is a real debate. I will tell you why you presented this measure and that you have taken on the task of defending it even if it is reluctantly. Because there was no agreement at the time of the government's formation on tax transfer, because your government's statement does not include anything in this matter, apart from the reference to highly questionable general principles on certain aspects. That's because you didn't take on board what should have been done at the time of the government's formation, namely the significant reduction of social security contributions on low wages, as advocated by the National Bank and the Federal Office. According to a 2011 study, this decrease should have been at least equivalent to 0.5% of GDP at the time. Today, this figure should probably be somewhat adapted. Because you did not do so, because you did not want to question what is the real debate, namely how to finance social protection through social security tomorrow if the main effort is no longer made by the contributors, because you did not want to make the real reform in principle, you are defending, today, a measure that is only the bone to eat of the N-VA. This is the ultimate concession!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u335	Minister, like my colleagues, I can appreciate the quality of your answer. However, unless I am mistaken, you did not answer the question I raised this morning. I asked you to talk about your visit to the Finance Inspectorate about the environmental, economic and social impact assessment exemption. At least on this point, I would like to obtain a formal answer from you and be able to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u336	Colleagues, it is true that an index jump is a political choice. It is clear that we have opted for an index jump alongside the tax shift and other measures that have already been or will be taken. I understand that, among other things, Mrs Temmerman does not think that is the best choice. We are responsible for this choice and will continue to defend it. I take note of the opposition's arguments by which it believes it can demonstrate that better choices are possible. That is a matter of majority versus opposition. I hope I have been able to convince you that we have shown maximum care in making our choices, which we can also argue about. Mrs Kitir, I said that the previous government was in the process of closing Ford Genk. Of course, you know the file much better than I do. In any case, this dossier shows that employment guarantees, even though they are on paper, are not many proposals when decisions are taken at a head office to close down a business. I can only underline that my contacts with Volvo and Audi raise the question of how we will deal with the high wage costs in Belgium if those companies choose to invest here and not abroad. You are right that it is not just these multinationals, it is also very important for small and large companies. You have pointed out, Mrs. Onkelinx, that this is not just the cost of wages. You're right. There are other elements relating, for example, to flexibility. But I understand that, in the Pact that you approved under the former government, there was no connection...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u337	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u338	No, that's not true: there is no guarantee. I'm sorry, but I haven't found a guarantee of job creation by companies in exchange for a reduction in the cost of wages. Maybe I'm in a bad position.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u339	The Competitiveness Pact did indeed involve structural burden reductions. There are no special obligations. It is a favourable climate, as you call it of your wishes. But, besides that, there were reductions in social contributions target groups that are directly related to employment. You can't say that otherwise. All the studies have shown, and in particular the President of the Higher Employment Council, the future head of the National Bank, that these measures are the most favourable to employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u340	For the sake of clarity, you are right that there is a direct link between the subsidy and employment as far as the social Maribel is concerned. That is also very important because we have now postponed it for a year. The non-profit sector has come to find me to say that 700 jobs would be created if they were supported. We have now postponed this for one year and I hope they can do it twice. That is precisely what the social Maribel is about, but it is now generally about reducing the burden and guaranteeing companies to create jobs. As regards social correction, an opinion was requested from the social partners. In addition to the 180-160 % on which I do not wish to reopen the debate, as laid down in the law, we have asked the social partners to distribute this not insignificant sum. We have implemented what they have reached as an agreement. I have stressed once again that we have made serious efforts to make the index jump smart. There are a number of elements on which it could be replicated that they might be more effective in practice than anticipated. I hope you will understand that we have dealt with this with great care and that we have asked the social partners to distribute the wealth envelope. We have carried out this division rigorously. Mrs. Temmerman, are you expecting me to tell you big news?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u341	(...) this is not a new policy. It is a structural policy. That doesn't make up for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u342	I understand your position in this debate. I have only stressed the importance of the social partners in distributing the amounts envisaged. Mrs Fonck, the opinions of the Council of State, which has looked very carefully at all the amendments, including yours, in the unified Chambers, i.e. both the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking Chambers, clearly show that we have competitive powers, that the regions are competent to index or not to index family allowances, rent etc. and that the federal level has the power as long as we go as far as possible. We have done so with some care. We have done as much as we can, but it is the responsibility of this federal government not to take certain things with us now because we think it is more interesting, for example in relation to rent, to have that debate in the context of the tax shift. That is a responsibility we take. I also know very well how far people have gone in the past. I was on the study service at the time, and I helped to make proposals for dividends and other cases. Here we have made the choice as it is before us, and with the approval of the Council of State, that is not insignificant in the legal field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u343	Deputy Prime Minister, you have made a selective choice to apply an index jump on some things and you have made the choice not to apply index jump on others. You mentioned a few of them. I want to show here that it's a shopping, a "pure juice" political choice. You fall behind the Council of State. If you want to apply a measure on the basis of the competences that you have and that the Council of State confirms, then there is no reason not to apply an index jump on those that you have protected today and where you have not applied it. I'm taking over the administrators' tantèmes. It is within your competence but you have chosen to protect them and not apply them an index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u344	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u345	For rents, you chose not to apply an index jump. As a result, in the case of family allowances and support for the elderly, you could clearly have chosen not to apply an index leap, especially since the Council of State also validates the fact that many of the competences have been shared through the sixth reform of the State. If you say: "In the background, we make a linear index jump measure that applies to all, small, big, those who are in a favorable situation or not", I do not approve. But at least I could understand the logic. In this case, this is not at all the approach you have taken. You have voluntarily chosen to punish some of them and to protect others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u346	I would just like to comment on what Mr Nollet said about the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. There is a preamble to a royal decree, but here it is about a law. As far as a law is concerned, there is no requirement for that. If there are KBBs, we will ask for separate advice from the IF as far as those KBs are concerned, but as far as the law is concerned, there is no preamble and therefore no reference to an opinion from the IF. So you should not be concerned that we would not act legally correctly. We assume that we have taken the necessary care in this regard. Thank you for mentioning this, but there is no danger that we will not act correctly in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u347	Mr Minister, I had the opportunity earlier to show you the opinion of the Council of State on which I am basing myself to raise this point. Of course, as the Conseil d'État points out in this notice published in the Moniteur on 31 December 2013, a law does not have a preamble. But, says the Council of State, "it is also necessary to take into account the fact that there is no preamble in a law but in the royal decree accompanying the bill tabled in a legislative chamber." It is, of course, in the Royal Order accompanying the bill that the preamble must provide for and indicate the advice of the Finance Inspectorate. I have checked in the official documents at the Registry, this royal decree does not mention in its preambles the date of the order of the Inspectorate of Finance. You are opening up a risk of a purely formal remedy, which you could avoid by distributing the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate. As the night is near, and often with advice, I can only invite you to continue to think about it and to come back tomorrow morning with this element. Unless you have other elements now. I'm talking about the royal order that accompanies the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u348	Mr Nollet, I have been silent and silent so far, but I can now hear you say for the second time this evening that, apparently, given the lack of the report by the Treasury Inspectorate, certain claims could be brought against the law. What kind of progress do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u349	This is a royal decree, which is not a law. A royal decree may be attacked at a later stage. I'm not saying we will, I'm saying other actors will.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u350	That's not my question. My question is: for which court do you want to do that, and on what legal basis? For the party board of Ecolo? If that were possible...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u351	There are different possibilities. I will not go into detail here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u352	Maybe Ecolo's party board? Let me explain, Mr Nollet. There is established case law of the Constitutional Court which states that you cannot go to the Constitutional Court for the preparation of legislation, for the whole process leading to the decision on a law. They do not consider themselves competent to do so. So you are talking here about remedies that do not exist. It's the code of imaginary laws. Anyway, what you're saying there are things that can't be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u353	I refer you to page 103 703 of the Monitor. Read it at your ease and we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u354	Mr Nollet, I am not talking about the opinion of the Council of State. I am talking about a law that is passed here by vote. Even if the royal decree with which that law was filed here were invalid, I do not yet see what legal basis and for which court you could attack that law. There is simply no legal basis or jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u355	Mr President, I must admit that the N-VA Group leader is right at the legal level. Sort of, it's the perfect crime. As you and your constitutional colleagues say, it is a perfect crime; but it is a crime anyway! In this context, you are finally hiding from Parliament, which is obviously serious, an essential element for an important debate on the economic and social situation in our country. I wouldn't be as happy as you to see that you can't be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-21-54-plenair-ip039x.u356	If no one asks to speak, we will close the discussion with Minister Peeters here. Tomorrow at 11 a.m. we will continue the general discussion. We will continue the general discussion. I have two speakers for Minister De Block. We will therefore see at what time we can begin the debate on the draft Registry Rights. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, April 22, 2015 at 11.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 April 2015 at 11 a.m.
