ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u1	Mr Minister, I have the pleasure of chairing this committee meeting temporarily tomorrow, because President Brecht Vermeulen has to ask a question in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my first two questions concern the fire department. My first question concerns training requirements. The Law of 15 April 2007 provides in Article 106/1 that the King determines the training of operational personnel of the zones by a decision established after consultation with the Council of Ministers. We are aware that the new training must of course result in well-trained firefighters, in the interests of better assistance to citizens and in the interests of their own safety. In the current drafts circulating on the training programme, the number of hours for obtaining the certification of firefighter is considerably increased. The fire volunteers have already pulled the emergency brake in the past and they continue to do so. They continue to warn that the training requirements are at risk of becoming too heavy, which means that the combination of voluntary firefighter with a main occupation and also a social and family life will no longer be feasible. There is a danger that our volunteers will be discouraged and, if necessary, abandoned. In autumn 2014, following the discussion of the policy statement and policy paper, the Minister of the Interior referred several times to the work-life balance for voluntary firefighters. Reformed training must not have such an impact as to jeopardise this balance and threaten the flow of volunteers. I come to my two specific questions. Does the Minister intend to amend the draft? What measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that training for voluntary firefighters remains compatible with their main occupation, with their family and social life?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u3	Mr President, Mr Metsu, I do intend to amend the draft royal decree on the training of members of the public emergency services in a number of respects. We are currently engaged in intense consultations with the partners concerned and with my administration to make some changes, precisely in order to safeguard the commitment of the voluntary fire brigade, but at the same time to provide quality training. Again, it is a balance between quality education, work, family and leisure. So what are the concrete things that we are proposing? Firstly, as far as physical testing is concerned, we want to provide an adapted route for the federal fitness attestation, so that volunteers have a longer training period to reach the required level. We will not reduce the training requirements, but we will extend the period within which that level can be achieved, so that the quality does not fall, but it is not too difficult for the candidate volunteers either. Secondly, in the same context, I plan to have a wider scope for training in order to obtain the successive licences. Thirdly, I would like a longer transitional period from the system of current training to the future system. Fourthly, I am examining the slope to replace the mandatory presence for theoretical lessons with an alternative that should lead to at least the same success rates. For example, instead of the compulsory presence, self-study is possible for me. A final measure requires more consultation, because it concerns another area: I would like to go back to the issue of educational leave for volunteers. This dossier is subject to intensive consultation, including with the Regions and the social partners, and therefore does not fit in with the discussion on the draft royal decision on training. It's a separate trajectory, but it has to do with each other. So we will adapt the royal decision on training, not by lowering the level, but by spreading the different requirements a little more over time. In parallel, we want to provide educational leave for the volunteers participating in the training. Those are two separate trajectories.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u4	Mr President, Minister, more satisfactory cannot be an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u5	Mr President, with this question we remain in the same spirit as the previous question. Mr. Secretary, you yourself mentioned the federal fitness certificate for firefighters. In order to be recruited, in accordance with Article 35 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 laying down the administrative status of operational personnel of the relief zones, candidate firefighters should have a federal fitness test. This means that the candidates must pass three fitness tests, namely a competence test, a manual skill test and an Iichamous suitability test. The suitability test shall assess candidates on the basis of four components: a physical test battery, a ladder test, a endurance test and a swimming test of at least 100 metres. The tests for volunteers and professional candidates are aligned. Those fitness tests have been eliminated. Experience in the corps where these tests are already being carried out has shown that only half of the candidates succeed. As a result, these increased laboratory tests are likely to become a significant obstacle to the influx of our volunteers, which may result in a further shortage. We are aware that the men must have a good physical condition in order to perform their job properly. However, we must ensure that we have sufficient volunteers at all times. The quantity is also important. You have already replied in part, Minister. Now I would like to go into this a little more in detail. What measures are you considering to ensure that the federal fitness attestations and the increased tests in particular will not lead to a reduction in the influx of volunteers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u6	I can indeed confirm what you are saying, Mr Metsu, namely that the fitness tests, which were the result of a scientific study by the KUL, show in practice that a lot of people do not succeed in these tests. Therefore, as regards the physical tests for the federal fitness certificate, I am considering providing for an adapted trajectory so that both the volunteers and the professional staff, because they are both subject to them, have a longer training period in order to reach the required level, if necessary. In a second measure we are considering organizing the three fitness tests for the federal fitness certificate on a decentralised basis. Today, both volunteers and professional staff have to go to the provincial training centre. I believe that we can perfectly organise it in such a way that they can carry out their tests in the zone or the corps where they wish to serve. Those tests aren't so specialized that they can't be decentralized. However, I would like to stress that these accompanying measures must not have the effect of jeopardising the safety of firefighters. We must therefore always strike a balance. It is intended that both a volunteer and a professional firefighter perform the same functions. They should therefore have an equal physical condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u7	Is that answer equally satisfactory?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u9	Here, it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 1509 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u11	Mr President, Mr Minister, while Belgium has put in place a wide legal arsenal to ensure the protection of pregnant workers against discrimination related to pregnancy in the workplace, in practice these legal provisions are not always respected and women workers cannot always assert their full rights. For example, there are numerous complaints about child desire, pregnancy and maternity during recruitment and candidacy, as well as complaints of non-commitment or dismissal in the event of pregnancy. According to a study by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, one in four women stated that during the examination of their candidacy, they had been explicitly asked if they wished to have children. A total of 76.6 per cent of women had experienced at least one form of pregnancy-related discrimination; 5.1 per cent had even been dismissed due to pregnancy or had resigned as a result of treatment during pregnancy. As far as the police sector is concerned, one may wonder whether certain organizational characteristics are not conducive to the emergence of discrimination. Indeed, it is not possible to replace a police officer when she is pregnant. A policeman can only be replaced by a policeman. And if you hire a policeman, you can't hire him on a fixed-term basis, you can hire him indefinitely for the area. During pregnancy, pregnant women are usually placed in jobs that are often operational but do not put them in direct contact with the public and offer daytime schedules (event management centre, verbatim reporting, etc.).). At the time of delivery, they are entitled to maternity leave. That pregnancy keeps women away from the field is an aspect that does not escape the hierarchy, mostly made up of men. These elements could be linked to the significantly low proportion of police officers who have integrated the public service and the police hierarchy. Less than one third of the integrated police personnel are women. As far as the ranks are concerned, there are only 10 per cent principal inspectors and 3 per cent female divisional commissioners. Out of 195 police areas, 117 have no female officers. In this context, Minister, how many complaints related to pregnancy, childbirth or maternity have been brought at the level of the police sector? Is there any adjustment to the selection tests to ensure that they are gender neutral? Are there any measures in place with regard to working arrangements or the organisation of working time aimed at removing certain obstacles to career management? Finally, what are the government's ambitions for gender equality in the integrated police force and how do you intend to enable more women to integrate police services without giving up their desire for children?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u12	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, the Federal Police Internal Control Service has not received any formal complaints to date concerning pregnancy, childbirth or maternity. No adaptation of the selection tests is foreseen. However, the Federal Police Selection Directorate pays attention to the issue and ensures that the selection tests are accessible to women and men, whether they are civilian or operational staff. Cognitive aptitude tests and personality tests are standardized. Operational staff must also pass the functional path test. These are sports events that are adapted according to gender and age. In other words, the theoretical tests are the same for all, while the sports tests are adapted according to sex and age. In 2012, a working group, called Task Force Gender, was formed within the Integrated Police. It was tasked with proposing measures to support the career path of all women, in particular the high potential for reconciliation between professional and private life, but also in the area of the implementation of gender mainstreaming defined by the Council of Europe as "the (re)organisation, improvement, evolution and evaluation of decision-making processes, with the aim of incorporating the perspective of equality of women and men in all fields and at all levels, by the actors generally involved in the implementation of policies". This is the first line followed by the task force. A second line is gender budgeting, which is defined by the Council of Europe as "applying the integrated approach to gender equality in the budgetary process. This implies an evaluation of existing budgets with a gender perspective at all levels of the budget process, as well as a restructuring of income and expenditure with the aim of promoting equality between women and men." Various measures have already been taken, including the development of a circular for the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in the police service and, most recently, a survey of all female staff to identify the causes and factors that hinder women from applying for high-level police positions. The investigation was carried out. The results of this study have yet to be worked on in this working group. We look at the results before proposing measures. We will continue in this direction and continue the ongoing projects within the Task Force. The job as a policeman and the desire of a child are and will remain perfectly compatible. If complaints are to reach this level, I will immediately analyze how to remedy them. The actions are in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u14	Mr President, Minister, at the end of November 2014, the Standing Committee of the Local Police published, on its website, an analysis report of a survey of the country's various police areas concerning the recruitment of volunteers by the police services. The reading of this report is both interesting and worrying, as it shows that, contrary to what has been said or written, the use of voluntary police officers does not only exist in Belgium as a project for the future or as a debate, but already as a current practice. According to the survey sent to the corps chiefs of the 195 Belgian police zones and supplemented by 126 of them, "about one third of the participating police areas – 45 of the 126 areas – work with volunteers. In the future, this number could double, as about two thirds of the responding police areas – 82 out of 126 areas – have indicated that they intend to hire volunteers." The survey analysis report contains this information on page 6. The report was released in a context in which the Government announced its intention to study the privatization of several services currently provided by the police. Here are my questions. On what legal basis does the use of volunteers currently take place? What is the profile of volunteer police officers? How many of them are there? What tasks are they generally assigned to? Are they paid or still exercising free of charge? Do some of them work at the federal police level? What is the government's position in this regard? Is this a way to streamline policing and solve under-funding? On the contrary, would you prefer the use of police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u15	My colleague, the vast majority of the questions asked are answered in the report to which you refer. Nevertheless, here are the answers to your different questions. With regard to the first question, the legal basis is the Act of 3 July 2005 on volunteering. They are not volunteer police officers, but rather volunteers within the police. They're not policemen. These are people who are ready to help the police. The shade is very important. As far as their numbers are concerned, we do not have exact figures. You know that local police areas are not yet required to provide this data. This will be done as soon as we can launch the ISIS automation system. The tasks of the volunteers in the local police areas are to support the trained supervisors and the coordinators of the local prevention plan. Volunteers are not paid; that is the very essence of volunteering. At the federal police level, there are currently no volunteers. Let me turn to your second set of questions. The commitment of voluntary police officers is not included in the government agreement. This is not considered structurally. Local police areas can use volunteers, but in our vision of the police organization, there are none. Volunteering has several advantages: community-oriented service, volunteer motivation, knowledge and experience. It is currently left to the discretion of each authority whether or not to use it. It is certainly not a question of finding a solution to the possible problems to which you refer. That is not planned. It is clear that I would like to have well-trained police officers with an adequate status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u16	Minister, do you think it would be possible to obtain a list of tasks that could be assigned to police volunteers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u17	In my response, I stated that there was no list of tasks for volunteers; it was the police area that decided on the tasks to be carried out. But police tasks must be carried out by trained police officers!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u18	Minister, with regard to the tasks to be retained by the police or which may be considered in another form, according to the newspaper Le Soir of December 12, 2014, home visits could be included. They concern 500,000 Belgians each year who change their homes. Whether it is a matter of separation, housekeeping, removal or family reunification, each time a neighbourhood agent has to check whether the person is actually domiciled at his or her new address. It is an element that seems to be annoyed but important in the police task and important in municipal management. This visit is also an opportunity to make initial contact with his neighbourhood police officer, which is essential in a proximity-based approach. On the other hand, some people sometimes blame excessive police controls, with pointy or intrusive officers. There is oversight in this regard and Committee P identifies and deals with approximately 60 complaints per year. Conferring home visits to private agents would, in my view, give a negative signal to the population, attached to the local police, and would increase the feeling of unease and intrusion. Do you consider home visits to be an ancillary or essential task in police missions? Do you intend to entrust this type of mission to private companies? If so, how can we exercise control, particularly with regard to privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u19	Mr President, Mr Demeyer, as part of the fight against homelessness fraud, it is necessary for home control to remain a compulsory statutory administrative task of the local police, as stipulated in the circular of 1 December 2006 laying down various directives for the easing and simplification of certain administrative tasks of the local police. Local police must be able to track population movements and address changes in their neighbourhood. It must also inform the municipality of the persons who no longer have their principal residence at their registration address and of the persons residing at a certain address without being entered in the population registers. The crucial role of the neighbourhood agent, as an essential link in preventing and combating, in particular against homelessness fraud and social and tax fraud, is recognised by all. The circular of 3 July 2013 of the College of Attorneys General on the fight against social fraud arising from the fictitious domiciliations and the circular of the Internal FPS of 30 August 2013 recall and insist that the prevention and the fight relating to this phenomenon of fraud must certainly be based on the importance of a correct and quality primary residence control of the neighbourhood agent. The authorities having access to the national register of natural persons must be certain of the accuracy of the data collected in the registers of the local population. It must also be borne in mind that this task, although administrative, enables the police services, and the district inspector in particular, to have privileged contact with the "new" citizens in his neighbourhood and to exchange information that can be useful to both citizens and the police (examples of the police regulations, registration procedures, etc.). The fact that this essential task of proper management of the population registers is entrusted to the police institution also proves that it is of particular importance. Symbolism and utility are thus brought together in the same task. The dialogue between the police officer and the population of his neighbourhood is very important for the detection of certain problems, including radicalism and for the provision of a network of knowledge to monitor the development of the neighbourhood's population. This dialogue with the people of the neighbourhood must be maintained on a regular basis and, if possible, on a daily basis. Regular visibility of the neighbourhood agent can help defuse some tensions or problems more quickly and reassure the population. As mentioned in the government agreement, the fight against fraud will be strengthened. Home fraud will be combated through cooperation between the police, the national registry and the social inspection services.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u20	Do I have to understand from your detailed answer that this task must remain in the core business of police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u21	This is a closed question that I can answer positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u23	Mr President, Minister, my question was addressed in the media on the same evening. In the meantime, I have read and heard about it in this way. The police summit then announced that officers are at great risk in static alcohol controls. I guess it still is today. The officers may decide autonomously whether or not to carry out checks on their territory. According to the top of our police, these static checks are not a good idea in the light of the terrorist threats. The police unions have immediately joined, although they are no longer available for dynamic controls. The current situation doesn't stand still. Today, police supervision at the school in Destelbergen is stopped due to terrorist threats, to the displeasure of the pupils' parents. In De Morgen I read an article about the fact that fear attracts extremists and extremist actions. Our measures would therefore have the opposite effect. My chief of police in my police department deals with that very nuancedly, he allows the two. We haven't stopped, no matter what people say at higher level. What do you think of the advice given to the police forces? Do you support it? Is it enforceable and should it be followed? It is not so much about being sidelined, but about ensuring road safety at all levels. Are you in favour of dynamic controls? Are you arguing for fewer controls? Are they linked to this period? Traffic enforcement is a basic function of local police forces. Is it advisable to compensate for the basic functions, even if there are risks associated with their exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Heeren, I would like to make a distinction between the controls, on the one hand, and the Destelbergen case, on which I shall return immediately, on the other. I think it's two different things. In temporary non-suspecto, when I proposed the BOB campaign with my colleague, Mr Galant, that had nothing to do with the threat of terrorism, we had already said that there would be fewer static checks and less on the major roads, but that there would be much more movement checks and more on the alternative shortcuts, because I think this would be more efficient. When people are on the access road to a dancing from 20:00 to 03:00 a.m., a lot of people pass in the beginning but after that it is even called in the dancing and no cat comes along. Even without the terrorist threat, the instructions in the light of the PDO campaign were already to move around regularly. This has now been reflected in the terrorist threat and said that the police must not be targeted by staying on the ground for hours at a time. It is therefore beneficial not only for this purpose to move, but also for the efficiency and effectiveness of controls. I have no problem with that. You're talking about an anxiety psychosis. Policemen know what happened in Verviers and what was discovered there. We know that they are threatened and they themselves know very well, from high to low, what threats are being made to them. As far as Destelbergen is concerned, fortunately, that is an isolated case. I have no other knowledge of the fact that traffic checks at schools are being reduced. As far as I understand, it is only half an hour in the morning, possibly half an hour in the afternoon and half an hour in the evening. It is not by cutting back on this control that we will save a lot of capacity. This is a decision of the local police and although I have nothing to do with it, I have sent a letter to my fellow Members in Destelbergen to refrain from doing so. I really do not think that is a good measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u25	Minister, I agree with you on Destelbergen. This leads to unnecessary reactions on the part of the population. I do not know how many inhabitants Destelbergen counts, but that does not seem to me to be such a big city. For the rest, I think it's the art of getting a good mix and being able to move around. I'd like to hear that for you, as for me, traffic enforcement remains important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u26	Mr Minister, with this question, I wanted to take you to the small communes of South Namur. I was thinking that the Department of the Interior may have led the minister and his collaborators to deepen their geographical knowledge. The question that I am going to ask you was debated at the council of the relief zone which met on 12 January to set up the zone. The Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 lays down the minimum conditions for the most rapid adequate assistance and the appropriate means for the departure of relief services. Prior to the entry into force of the decree, only the concept of territoriality determined the competent fire department; the latter only intervened in the territory of the municipalities which were involved in its financing. From now on, the emergency post can be the quickest at the scene of the disaster with the appropriate means. In addition to these speed criteria, standards defining minimum staff and equipment thresholds are also specified. These minimum means must be met to allow a first departure of men - depending on the type of intervention: fire, pollution, rescue of people, etc. The Ministerial Circular of 3 June 2013, issued pursuant to this Royal Order, allows for a departure only on the following condition: the presence of four men, including a non-commissioned officer or a corporal holding the equivalent level of qualification. No departure if this condition is not fulfilled; for a reason of safety of the men of fire. The circular provides for minimum effects and an exception for rural areas. However, this conditional exception would still seem too restrictive for those areas where regional fire services operate with the help of volunteer firefighters. To date, several communal councils have already adopted a motion on this subject, which is likely to have been forwarded to you. You confirm it. These are, in this case, the communes of Gedinne, Bièvre, Vresse-sur-Semois, on the right bank of the Meuse, and Cerfontaine, located on the left bank. The motions propose either the possibility of leaving with a minimum of three men, including a non-commissioned officer or a corporal holding the equivalent level of qualification, or the possibility of leaving four men, including a corporal, but without the restriction on the level of qualification equivalent to the rank of non-commissioned officer. In both cases, according to the proposal of the four communes, the actions of these teams should be clearly defined and strictly limited according to the type of disaster, in order to avoid endangering the safety of men. According to these communes, in the absence of any adaptation of the legislation, there is a great risk in rural areas of helpless assistance to one or the other disaster, since firefighters cannot intervene in anticipation of reinforcements; perhaps with serious consequences. Moreover, on several occasions, in the same geographical sub-area, incidents occurred simultaneously: the conditions were therefore no longer fulfilled. This raises the question of whether rural areas, which are already geographically disadvantaged by this reform, must sometimes wait more than elsewhere for intervention, with sometimes very important consequences: in the event of a fire, everything burns. Moreover, and this without punctuality, the cost to the so-called "protected" municipalities, the smallest, is also starting to blaze! In fact, these "protected" municipalities pay more for an unimproved service. Minister, as you have already agreed, I know that you have already read the motions passed by these communal councils. What is your view on this thorny subject? The right balance must be struck between the safety of firemen and the ability to respond quickly to a disaster. I will not hide from you that, in the emergency zone council, this issue has been discussed. I therefore wanted to hear your position on the interpretation to be given as to the possibility of exceptions, derogations in certain circumstances. Is it possible to adapt the exception for small communes, geographically remote, with few volunteers by definition, so as to send a first team of volunteers, reduced (see both cases indicated) but perfectly capable of stabilizing a situation pending reinforcements from more distant services? If not, do you have any other options to propose in case of an equivalent situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the communal motions that you have referred to. On the other hand, I would like to place the issue in its regulatory framework. You referred to the Royal Decree of November 10, 2012. Article 6 of this Order provides for an exception where it is impossible to bring together the minimum number of six persons for the multifunctional self-pump within the time limit set by the zone. The circular of 3 June 2013 sets out the reasons for this exception and the manner in which it is applied. I quote from this circular on this exception: "It has been reported that, mainly in rural areas working mainly with volunteer firefighters, a long period of time may sometimes take before six people can be brought together for the departure of a self - helper. In this case, it is recommended not to waste time on the first departure. It is therefore permissible, in this case, to send a self-employer with four people" – the motion was intended to ask for the presence of three people while the circular provides for four – "rather than waiting for the minimum occupation of six people to be completed and risking a negative development of the situation. This departure, however, is conditional on the simultaneous departure of a second self-employer with at least four persons from another post." I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the area cannot be organised structurally on the basis of the exception in question. Finally, the ministerial decree of 8 September 2014 sets the limits of the actions that can be carried out as long as only four participants are present on the spot, in other words, as long as the second self-taught one has not arrived at the site of the intervention. Therefore, the start can take place with four people, but the goal is that this first team be quickly reinforced by a second. Respect for these different rules is of paramount importance for the safety of the personnel involved. I therefore do not consider that the adjustment of this exception is desirable. Finally, with regard to the specific case you have put forward, I note that the various motions were all adopted between October and December 2014. However, since 1 January 2015, all the municipalities that adopted them have been integrated into the DINAPHI emergency zone. Therefore, the DINAPHI area must draw up an operational personnel plan that meets the criteria set out in the Royal Decree of 29 June 2014. In drawing up these staff plans, the area must take into account, inter alia, risk analysis, intervention statistics, the actual availability of voluntary personnel during the various working hours of the day and, of course, the above-mentioned rules on the minimum adequate means. Without prejudice to the conclusions to be drawn by the area, the establishment of this personnel plan may highlight the need to redeploy part of the existing professional staff between the various relief posts and/or to recruit additional voluntary or professional staff. In order to ensure that the additional costs associated with possible recruitment are not left to the municipalities, the 2015 federal budget provides, in addition to a basic federal allocation of almost €32 million, a complementary federal allocation of more than €65 million for all of the Kingdom's relief areas. We are therefore well aware of the case you recall and we are willing to assist the area if the personnel plan requires additional recruitment. As for the number of four men and one self-taught, followed by a second identical team, it is based on a study focused on fire safety, which is particularly important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you. I note one point: you are not in favour of the exception requested by the four mayors of the above-mentioned communes. However, I repeat, within the new DINAPHI relief zone, the debate has taken place and everyone is aware that a balance must be struck between the safety of men and the situation on the ground. While waiting for the second team, the building continues to burn. The mayors are faced with this reality of a limited number of volunteers. Will we have the means to make commitments or even to have more professionals? The issue is complex. We will review the budgets currently available to us and those that will be available in future years. Finally, you send us back to the Dinant-Philippeville area to find a practical solution to the problem. As we have seen on several occasions accidents, incidents or disasters at the same time, we must have realized that current standards do not meet the requirements for departures. The situation was therefore quite difficult on the ground for the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u29	Mr Delizée, the question is whether they can leave on three or four. I said they could leave on four. Why four and not three? For the moment, I can't give you the technical reasons. This is the conclusion of a study, which advocates a balance between the safety of people and a rapid presence of relief. We can send a second team in support of an autopompist and four firefighters. It is obvious that they will not wait in their barracks and thus let the fire progress. In any case, according to experts, the number of three is too small to guarantee safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u30	Minister, I will go into the four municipalities' proposal. I agree with the four firefighters' principle. But it is sometimes difficult to have a non-commissioned officer or a corporal with the equivalent certificate on the team. One of the applications therefore concerns the presence of a corporal, but without this restriction relating to the qualification equivalent to the rank of non-commissioned officer. This exception is one of the two proposals. Would you approve a first start with a team of four firefighters, including a corporal who does not have this certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u31	The circular speaks of four people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u32	This includes an equivalent NCO or corporal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u33	I'm going to ask, 'cause I can't answer you right now. We will respond to the motions of the four communes by stating how to interpret this aspect of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u34	Your vous and remerce. In addition to your reply, I will therefore receive more detailed information on this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u35	For the time being, Mrs Vanheste is still asking questions in the Committee on Justice, where I have just come from. I call Mr Metsu.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u36	Mr President, I have a short question which can actually be answered by yes or no. Since our fire zones have legal personality from 1 January 2015, it is these relief zones that are responsible for drawing up the fees rules that determine which interventions of the fire department are paying and which are not. A question that is regularly asked, including to me as chairman of my area, is the following: should the municipal councils of the municipalities which form part of these relief zones each individually approve the fees rules before it can enter into force? If so, should this be done by unanimity, special or qualified majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u37	Thank you very much for this question, Mr Metsu. I can be very clear: no, the municipal councils that are part of the zone should not approve the zonal fees regulations separately. It is a decision of the zoning council, which may vote autonomously on the fees for fire intervention costs. The billing of the costs of some of the fire department interventions should be seen as raising a fee within the meaning of Article 173 of the Constitution. The Constitution requires a law as a basis for such a fee. The legal basis for billing by the relief zones can be found in Articles 178 to 180 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. The Royal Decree of 25 April 2007 establishing the orders of the emergency services that can be recovered and those that are free of charge carries out this legal basis. This KB was modified by the KB of 14 October 2013 to register the relief zones as the authorities that can recover the costs of the fire interventions. So the law says they have to be governments and there's a KB that says a relief zone is a government. The zoning council shall adopt the fees rules by an absolute majority of the votes cast, each member of the zoning council having one vote. In fact, only the budget, the financial affairs of the zone and the distribution key should be approved unanimously. The weighted voting rights in relation to the municipal budget are only provided for the budget, the budgetary changes and the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u38	That is a very clear answer. So the only thing the local authorities have yet to do at local level is, if there was a local fee regulation in place, to abolish it and to adapt to the zonal rules? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 16, by Mr Wathelet Mr Demon's 1613 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u40	Minister, it is well known that there is a great deal to be done in Brussels on 21 July. Among other things, there is a large army defile of your colleague Vandeput. The cost of that army defilé alone last year was almost EUR 600 000. The year before that was even EUR 760 000. My question to you is what is the total cost? Of course, this is only the price of the defile. What has been the total cost of the festivities in recent years? We are, of course, in times of savings. Among other things, the army has to turn in heavy and gets no more money for paper for the printers. So it seems to me that these exorbitant expenses are no longer justified. It is your authority to organise the festivities on the 21st of July. I do not think there is much to celebrate anyway, but also that there can certainly be substantial savings on this expenditure. So my second question to you is whether you intend to save heavily on that expenditure? In view of the saving times, do you intend to organise a much more modest programme? I am very curious to see how you see the practical implementation of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u41	Mrs Pas, to answer your questions in concrete terms, you have received an answer from my Department of Defence, which can be divided into three parts. Firstly, it concerns the installation of stands, the purchase of flowers, the rent of chairs and other practical matters. Secondly, it's everything related to fireworks. Thirdly, there are the specific staff costs. The installation of stands and tutti quantums cost 260 477.58 euros in 2013. In 2014, it amounted to 252 946.93 euros. The cost of fireworks and all that goes with it is also involved in the city of Brussels, and these costs are also included in the sum of EUR 61 000 two years in a row. The specific staff costs associated with this are mainly related to the clothing for some staff, strange but true. These amounted to EUR 680 in 2013 and EUR 880 in 2014. I have a table here, which I will hand over to you, with the cost in detail. You will find that in 2014, the largest amount, EUR 220 000, goes to galleries and the like, without flowers, only the physical installation of the stands. You're asking for savings. Well, I'm gonna sit around the table with that firm to see if we can get those charges down, because it seems like a huge amount. The rest is a bummer compared to the cost of the stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u42	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that the great costs are the stands for the defilé and the defilé itself. Adding up to almost a million euros is no longer justified in these times. You say you're willing to talk to that firm, but from that I deduce that you're still planning to set up stands and keep army defilés. That is a question that I asked your colleague Mr Vandeput, namely whether it is still of this time and is still to be justified because of the cost of maintaining those army defilés. He bounced the ball to you as organizer of the whole of the festivities. I therefore conclude that you are still planning to continue with these expensive defilés and stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u43	Mr President, Minister, your colleague, Secretary of State, Francken, wants to screen better for salafistic imams. According to Mr Francken, it must be impossible for them to obtain residence papers. He mainly fishes countries such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia. When an imam applies for a residence permit, the prior advice of the State Security is always requested. In my opinion, that applies to all imams. The Secretary of State places the problem above all at the level of State Security. I quote a literal statement: "The problem is that the security of the state often does not know those people and therefore does not object.' Therefore, the Secretary of State is considering asking for additional advice from the OCAD when it comes to those persons. According to the State Secretary, therefore, there is a lack of functioning of the State's security or of the procedure it has used. Hence my questions to you. If there is a problem, as the Secretary of State points out, what exactly is it doing? Is there anything wrong with the procedure, with the operation or with the collusion with the OCAD? Can you clarify that? If there is a problem, we must do something about it urgently. What do you think can happen to that? Has it already been decided whether an additional opinion will be requested from the OCAD? How many salafistic imams are currently active in our country? We are talking about new people coming here, but are we also taking action against those who are already here? If so, what actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, thank you for your very fair question. As far as your first and second questions are concerned, the security of the State is not within my competence. She's under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, unfortunately. I used to think it was a mixed or shared competence, but the security of the state falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. So I look forward to the answers to your very legitimate questions, which you will ask Mr Geens. As regards your third and fourth questions, the next measures against radicalising imams have been taken since 2011 in the framework of the Radicalism Action Plan. I would add that the update of the Radicalism Plan is included in the first set of twelve measures. So it's the intention to intertwine. What measures are being taken against radicalizing imams? Refusal to enter the territory, negative advice on visa applications, refusal of access to a closed institution and a request to the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service aimed at controlling social and tax fraud. If problems arise with a radical imam, the regional and local authorities concerned may be informed. As far as I am concerned, that is certainly an adjustment. The 2011 Plan provides for the possibility of informing regional and local authorities. In our update they will be informed effectively. An ad hoc working group "Predikers' was also set up in November 2014 under the Radicalism Action Plan. The aim is to draw up a list of known radical preachers and imams to whom access to the territory would be refused. I have come to the conclusion that that list did not yet exist, and we are working on it now. The list will be drawn up under coordination of the OCAD, together with State Security, the ADIV, the Defence Security Service, the Federal Police and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We're drawing up the list. We already know a number of radicalized imams, but you will understand that I am not making that public here. I found it strange that there was no ready-made list that was updated permanently, but what is not there can be. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is true that the security of the state falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, but I thought there would be unity in command in this matter, as my colleague always says. Certainly for this kind of thing, there may be a little more consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u46	There is this consultation, but I cannot answer about my colleague's competence. I do have that information, but it is a matter for the Minister of Justice and it is up to him to answer questions about the State's security. It is not bad will or lack of coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u47	I am not saying that it is bad will, but it is a bit of a disease in our country: either it is the different levels, or it is the different ministers. If you ask questions, it would be easier to address one person because it is the same problem. I welcome your emphasis on the fact that local authorities will be informed. You know this is very important to me, coming from a local government itself. The last few days, weeks and even months have shown that local authorities play a very important role in this. As far as the list is concerned, I am also surprised that there is still no list of them, and I look forward to your initiative to draw them up as soon as possible. My first and second questions will be put again to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dumery's 1637 was postponed. The next item is the joint questions put by Mr Demon and Mrs Temmerman. Mr. Demon is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u49	Mr President, Minister, this question is of a completely different order, but it is not insignificant to see the situations and circumstances in which the police officers, or the law enforcement services in general, should now work. Minister, the award of honorable awards to the members of the integrated police is governed by the Act of 1 May 2006. In order to be able to apply the legal guidelines, a chancery was created in 2007 in the bosom of the Federal Police Mobility and Personnel Management Board. The service is responsible for the management and coordination of the award of honorable awards for the entire integrated police force. In 2013 and then in January 2014, honorable awards were awarded, but not since. The reason for this discontinuation is completely unclear for people. Once again, you will agree with me that the police are currently under heavy pressure. For some it may seem unimportant, but for many it is a recognition of their career or of a number of things. Hence my questions. Did you know that the activities of this chancery were stopped? Why is that? Will these activities be restarted? If so, within what time limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, first of all I share your concern in this regard, particularly in view of the current circumstances. I know that policemen are very sensitive to recognition and this is the official form of recognition. The work of the Chancellery in itself has not been stopped nor has it been held inactive, but since 1 September the staff responsible for this dossier have left the Chancellery. I come to your second question. The Federal Police Department to which the Chancellery belongs has taken steps to allow some staff to work part-time on the file on honorable awards. That happened recently. At present, given the budgetary constraints and many other priorities, it is not feasible to further strengthen this service. So the service hasn't been stopped. It was empty, but a few people were added to it, although it should have been more. There is a common regime for all officials and the resources available continue to be used to deal with cases of honorable discrimination. I will ask the chancellor to give priority to police files in the light of current events. I agree with your concern in that we do not really appreciate the circumstances in which the police have to work at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u51	Thank you, Minister, also for recognizing that this is a real problem. Once again, it may seem nothing, but in the current circumstances and for those involved, it does mean a lot. I therefore hope that these dossiers can be dealt with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 1730 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u53	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the legislation provides for the use of Code 3, i.e. the activation of blue lights and siren, for a range of services: police, firefighters, ambulances, STIB, SNCB, etc. However, the use of code 3 for priority vehicles on urgent missions may lead to confusion. In fact, the legislator leaves it to each department to define what, in his view, is an urgent situation. The urgency of a mission is thus a de facto assessment. In this way, it is possible to see a STIB security team running in code 3 and a police team not running in code 3 for the same type of event. A proposal for a law amending the Law on the Road Traffic Police with regard to the concept of urgent mission was introduced in May 2011, but could not be adopted. However, in its 2009 Observatory Report, the Standing Committee P recommended that the legislator define and explain the concept of "emergency mission" for priority vehicles. Minister, what about today? Do you intend to lay down in the law the criteria for assessing how Code 3 practices can be better regulated and, in particular, to standardize the definition of an urgent mission? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u54	Mr President, dear colleague, Code 3 is not a code provided for by law, but an order of priority which dispatchers assign, in certain departments, to their teams to designate the priority of a mission. Code 3 means that the vehicle can run with the blue lights and the siren. Not all emergency services make use of it and, in many cases, the priority decision is left to the driver of the vehicle. In 2011, as part of the new road code project, the possibility of redrafting the definition of urgent mission was discussed. The drafting of a list and a detailed formulation of the missions to be taken into account are not self-evident, especially since each emergency call depends on various circumstances which may differ in terms of time and space (distance, place of intervention). It was not possible to reformulate that definition. In doing so, we decided to maintain the existing wording.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u55	Minister, I would remind you that a bill was tabled by all political groups in 2011. This proposal considered that the criteria for assessment must be laid down in the law and then left to the judge's discretion. It was a mission of a priority vehicle that could be defined by considering that there was a disturbance of public order or a breach of physical integrity, that the breach could be serious and that the disturbance was real or imminent. But, as you say, these are factual assessments that are difficult to formalize through a piece of legislation. I think this could still be the subject of interesting discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u56	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there are now two provisions regulating the police in public transport, on the one hand a royal decree of 15 September 1976 regulating the police for the transport of persons by tram, pre-metro, metro, bus and coach, and, on the other hand, a royal decree of 20 December 2007 regulating the police in railways and metro. With regard to the application of this second system, the police do not currently appear to have the necessary powers to draw up findings in the context of administrative sanctions and therefore cannot sanction incivility committed by users. Therefore, Minister, could you take the necessary steps to expand police powers and allow them to draw up findings in the context of administrative sanctions related to the application of this 2007 Royal Order? I think this would be a strong message to Brussels public transport users who are guilty of incivilities. I would also like to discuss with you the recurring problem encountered by the STIB canine brigade. There is now a lack of skills. The Ministerial Order authorizing STIB and Securail to organise a security service provides that dogs of the canine brigade with a muzzle can intervene only in infrastructure but not in vehicles. However, the presence of police and dogs is appreciated by users and increases their sense of safety in travel. It is therefore not logical, in my opinion, that dog owners accompanied by their dog must take their car to get from one stop or from one station to another. Furthermore, it would seem to me appropriate to establish a special status for dog handlers in order to enable them to obtain official certification and to legitimize their involvement in public transport. Mr Minister, in the light of these findings, would it be possible to change the status of the dog handlers of the STIB canine brigade in order to allow them to intervene, from a deterrent point of view and if necessary, on board public transport? What measures would be possible to encourage them and to establish formal training and certification for dog handlers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u57	Mrs Schepmans, I want to apologize for the long answer I'm going to give you. The question you asked seems simple, but there is a broad enough answer for it. For the powers of the police in public transport, in some cases it is possible that STIB travellers who have committed incivilities may not be found guilty or punished by administrative sanctions. In this case, the message addressed to STIB users may be perceived as inadequate. The problem is at the level of the communication of identity data by the police services to STIB staff. Following the order of the Brussels-Capital Region of 22 November 1990 and the decision of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region, the police and in particular the railway police cannot communicate identity data to STIB staff. When a person commits an offence on the metro, trams and buses in Brussels, refuses to communicate his identity to STIB agents and the police are called to give assistance, the latter cannot communicate anything to STIB. In addition, the police authorities are not competent to find infringements on the basis of this order and therefore no VPs can be drawn up. Nor can the police services verify the identity of a person who has committed an offence on the basis of this order, since, according to the FCA (Police Function Act), section 34, no offence has been committed and there has not necessarily been a disturbance to public order. By means of coordinated actions or through contacts with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the railway police may be authorised to intervene in order to make an identification and to ask the person concerned to give his identity voluntarily to STIB agents. Measures for both railway police and public transport control personnel may be envisaged but must be agreed and approved by the various competent authorities: the Federal, the Regional, the College of Public Prosecutors, etc. As a result, police services currently have two possibilities. Either there is a STIB officer who is also present at the scene and who also found the facts. This officer may then draft a VP and may impose an administrative fine. The police authorities either find that the facts are classified as an offence on the basis of the legislation on communal administrative sanctions and a PV is drawn up. The railway police are certainly ready to support the extension of these powers to enable the police to communicate to STIB agents the identity of persons who have committed an offence, on the basis of the Royal Decree of 2007 on the regulation of public transport in the Brussels-Capital Region. The same applies to police reporting. Ideally, this should be organized by means of administrative sanctions. With respect to STIB's canine brigade, there is no specific certification for dog handlers. I do not intend to change their status. STIB personnel accompanied by dogs during a guarding mission are security officers who belong to the STIB security service and have received my authorisation. My services provide security officers who meet the requirements for an identification card. Like their uniforms, this card is used to legitimize their activities to the public. In particular, it implies that the person concerned has successfully completed the specific training of a security officer. Dogs accompanied by security or guarding officers cannot be used as weapons. As part of the caretakership, they only have a preventive and dissuasive function. They can be used in all places that have enough space, so that the public – in the event that the animal detachs – can escape. Metro stations and car parks are part of these areas. STIB can hire dog handlers on an unlimited basis. However, a dog's accompaniment on buses or trams is prohibited. Some travellers may feel the presence of a dog on a bus as reassuring, while others are afraid of it. They are indeed great shepherd dogs. The influence of children who, in a tram or subway train, do not distract themselves from animals is not to be underestimated. As we have said, a dog that detachs or whose behaviour becomes suddenly dangerous can cause panic in people who are afraid of it, without the public being able to escape. This applies to all places where private guarding and security control in public transport are exercised. Contrary to what you think you know, there is nothing to prevent the security officer who has to travel from or to his or her place of work from travelling this distance with his or her dog by public transport. He then does not perform his function. This compromise must make possible the mobility of agents. This possibility was confirmed literally a year ago to STIB management as part of the renewal of the authorization of its security service. So far, given the limited function of the dog during these security missions, it has not been considered useful to provide specific and mandatory training for dog handlers in the private safety sector. There is nothing to prevent STIB from involving its agents, on a voluntary basis, in training, provided that no attitude contrary to the spirit of regulation is taught there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u58	I thank the minister for the accuracy of his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u59	Today, police officers in certain police zones can use a bodycam or PET camera. That little camera allows us to film interactions and later resolve conflicts. Still, it's not that simple. There are still a lot of questions about the application of the camera. First and foremost, there is the privacy, both of the citizen and of the agent. Normally, there are icons in the street image when there is video surveillance in a public space. Of course, we can't do that here. It is also not clear what a bodycam can be used for:. Is that just for risk interventions or also for patrols? VSOA, the biggest police union, can't be found for the idea. There are problems in privacy violations for both citizens and agents; there are more possibilities for administrative procedures or disciplinary procedures and it is felt that the use of this camera shows little confidence in the agents. The union demands more support and trust for the agents on the ground. Despite all the uncertainties, the small cameras in certain police areas such as Mechelen are among the possibilities. There is a need for clarity for both citizens and agents. Are you in favour of the use of bodycams by agents? If so, under what circumstances? Can the camera be worn all the time? Do you see the use of the cameras as protection of the agent or the citizen? Do you have a visual on the number of police areas that use bodycams? How many cameras are in circulation? Do you have any knowledge of an improved police operation by using the cameras? How can you give sufficient privacy guarantees to the filmed citizen and agent?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u60	I believe that the use of bodycams can add value to the police work, provided that the cameras are legally anchored. Body camera pedestals are mobile camera pedestals, which means that they are not allowed to be used during daily police interventions in the current state of legislation. A change to the camera law is therefore necessary. We have provided for an amendment to the camera law in the coalition agreement. Today, the legislative framework is too strict. With every technological evolution, we have to change the law. It is the intention of the government agreement to review, in particular, the regulations on the placement and use of surveillance cameras. The definition of the situations and circumstances in which the bodycam may be switched on requires a delicate balancing exercise, taking into account the right to privacy of both the citizen and the police officer. The use of the bodycam can provide protection for both the police officer and the citizen. The images of these cameras may, in the context of an intervention using force, give a reconstruction of the events, which is in the interest of both the citizen and the police officer. If necessary, the images may also be a visual means in the judicial investigation. In addition, the use of the bodycams can play a preventive role. After all, who knows that he is being filmed, it may be less likely that violence will occur. You're asking for precise figures. However, the police zones are not obliged to report those figures to us. Consequently, we have not been able to collect them in a short time. I must remain guilty of both the figures on the exact number of areas used by this medicine and the figures on the improvement of the operation of the police areas thanks to this medicine. In response to other questions about the figures of the local police zones, I said that from 2016 we will be installing a new IT system for the local areas. It will then be easier to retrieve data from the local areas. However, current computer applications do not allow such rapid retrieval. Now I come to your fourth question. Article 8 of the Camera Act of 21 March 2007 clarifies that any secret use of a surveillance camera is prohibited. The secret use of bodycams is therefore also prohibited. The citizen being filmed needs to know he's being filmed. In the context of a legislative amendment to regulate bodycams, there are two possibilities. Either the bodycam is visible and then it is covered by one of the suspicions of consent existing in Article 8 of the Camera Act, or the bodycam is too small to be considered visible and there is a need for a notification of its use, for example orally, as proposed in the mentioned bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u61	Minister, I am pleased that you are doing so. I understand that you cannot give the figures in the short term. If I submit my question in writing, do you have enough time to provide those figures? If so, I will put a written question. In my written question I will also ask you when the design of cameratwet will be submitted and for which interventions the bodycam can be used correctly. I don't suppose you can answer those questions right now. Can I put a written question on that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u62	Mr President, Minister, there was some turmoil last week when the local police were no longer present at the school gate in the municipality of Destelbergen to help the children safely cross a busy job, which she normally does there. When questioned about this, the mayor of Destelbergen declared to the cameras that this measure is part of a level 3 terrorist threat. He explained that when they operate outside, the police must always be with two and wear bulletproof vests. He said that for that reason it is no longer possible to use policemen at the school gate. I have the following questions. First of all, what measures exactly are part of a Level 3 terrorist threat? It's not that obvious. Sometimes we read about it. That policemen then wear bulletproof vests and come out with two, we know, but perhaps you can give up specific measures? Secondly, have instructions been given to the local police zones? If so, which one? Thirdly, are these possible instructions the same for all municipalities and police areas in the country? If not, what are the differences? Fourthly, there is a general instruction, valid for all the police areas of the country, that policemen may appear in the public only by two, and that they must always be equipped with a bulletproof vest? Fifth, has there been an instruction given to the local police that has prohibited the supervision at the school gate by a single police officer since announcing the threat of terrorism at level 3? Sixthly, does such a measure not increase the public's sense of insecurity, especially if this measure is systematically introduced everywhere, including in the more rural areas? People argue simply and assume that the police are there to protect them, while they are not at the school gate. That argument is often heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u63	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I know it is annoying, but for security reasons, I cannot tell you what measures are being announced under a Level 3 terrorist threat. At football the tactics of the team are only known after the match. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u64	I hope one day we can talk about a phase after the match, and then you can all know that. With regard to your second question, following threat level 3 and specifically the threat to police forces in general, several instructions were indeed given to police forces. A list of instructions has been drawn up which apply to all police forces in our country and which must be complied with. In addition, there is a second list of options and instructions from which the local corps themselves can choose and introduce measures that seem proportionate to them. The first list is therefore what they should do and the second list contains measures which they can think of and which they must evaluate according to the specific needs of each zone. It is then up to the mayor and the Chief Constable to take the measures they intend to introduce from that second list. Once again, for security reasons, I cannot say what that list means. Your fifth question concerns the Destelbergen case. Destelbergen has made a choice and has to answer for himself and answer for himself. As a minister, I have no competence in this matter, but I will give you my personal appreciation, as it has already appeared in the press and which I have also sent to the municipality of Destelbergen by letter. As a citizen, I find that measure torn off the pot. If we are talking about helping children cross schools, we are talking about half an hour in the morning, half an hour in the afternoon and half an hour in the evening. To abolish such a traffic control system because it is too high a level of terrorism, which I believe is difficult to justify. I also understand that this measure is currently being reviewed in Destelbergen because the local population does not agree with it. As far as your last question is concerned, it is our duty to ensure that all the citizens of this country are protected as much as possible. The instructions given by us are a means of achieving that goal. It is precisely because of local differences that we work with two lists, one list of measures that apply to everyone, such as the wearing of bulletproof vests, and another list of measures for which the local police themselves must carry out an opportunity and proportionality assessment. You are right, in the sense that there must always be a balance between measures that the people see as being taken, such as with two and wearing bulletproof vests, and no security. If something happens, people complain that the measures have not been taken. It's always a trade-off. Some measures would not be too much of a follow-up, I am thinking of Destelbergen, unless there is a very good explanation for that. I wonder what that could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you cannot go into detail about the specific instructions, but I had to prepare my question in this way in order to ascertain to what extent there are specific instructions. I can understand that some of the measures are mandatory and some of them are recommended or recommended, but to be assessed locally. The question is whether it is clear enough that it is an appreciation and not an obligation. Locally one might consider this if one should always be with two, that one should always wear bulletproof vests. With regard to the instructions, it may be necessary to specify more explicitly whether they are optional. A chief of police or mayor might want to make sure in case something happens. Maybe that's a trade-off, too. I agree with you that the decision in Delstelbergen is an exaggerated measure, which could easily be overcome by direct appointment of authorised supervisors. The problem could also be solved in this way. It should not always be policemen and other people can act to ensure that children cross safely. However, we must not get involved in this. My question is whether the instructions are clear enough to leave any room to deviate from them?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u66	It's hard for me to judge. I just note that this must be proof that it is clear that none of the 192 police zones are implementing all the measures. They implement all measures in the first list, but not all measures in the other list. From this I conclude that people know what is mandatory and what is optional.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u67	Mr. Secretary, you saw the banner of the Ultras of Standard this weekend during the Standard-Anderlecht competition against Steven Defour, an ex-player of Standard. I didn't see the match in its entirety. I myself am Vice-President of a second-class team and was in Schiervede, where there was more talk about the tifo than about the outcome of our own match. In the meantime, the football association and the Pro League have condemned the banner, but claim that they do not have the remedies to sanction. It is, of course, impossible for individuals to be sanctioned by them since the two bodies can only sanction their members and football clubs. Standard and especially the Football Cell of Home Affairs are in the ability to punish individuals. Standard has announced some provisional measures and awaits the meeting with the city of Liège and the Ultras to take further steps. The club is, they say, at least willing to cooperate in identifying those involved. The Football Cell in turn announced that the action could not be accepted. Together with the Liege police, it will identify and banish all those who have participated in the roll-out of the tipo. In order to speed up that identification, the Liege police have summoned the Ultra Leaders. The sanctions could amount to a stadium ban from three months to five years, and fines from EUR 250 to 5 000. They're supposed to receive a report within six months. What did the interview of the Ultra Leaders bring? Do these people show any willingness to cooperate in identifying the perpetrators? How many people have been identified? Were there any identifications based on the Ultra Leaders or the football club? How many of the identified persons have been convicted of the Football Cell in the past? In other words, are we talking about recidivists? Will the Football Cell act harder in the case of relapse? According to the Football Cell, anyone who has helped to roll out the tipofo will be vandalized. Is there any chance that some Ultras who helped to make the canvas will go unpunished, for example because they were not present at the game because of a stadium ban? Can we assume that the people who rolled out the banner knew about the content of the text? According to my information, there was initially another banner introduced to the club. Has the Football Cell intervened in the past for similar facts? What were the punishments that were pronounced at the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u68	Mr Vermeulen, to your first two questions I can answer that we are now only a few days after the facts and that the investigations are still ongoing. The minutes are currently being drawn up at the Liège police area and I cannot therefore answer your questions yet. Now I come to your third question. The minutes will be drawn up on the basis of identifications carried out by the Liege Police Zone. When these records are delivered to the Football Cell, the administrative procedure will be initiated by our department. During that procedure, any supporter against whom the proceedings have been initiated will be able to lodge his defences in writing and/or orally. At the end of the individual examination of each file, only those who were deemed to have been proven can be sentenced to a penalty provided for in the football law. It is indeed possible that supporters with a stadium ban could have participated in making the banner or tipo, as it was manufactured outside the stadium, without those supporters having been inside on the day of the game. Even if we wanted to, it would be difficult to find out who cooperated in it. During each game, spotters monitor compliance with the football law and therefore also ensure that people with a stadium ban are not present. However, to clarify, on the basis of the football law, it is not possible to prosecute the persons who made the banner without being present at the stadium on the day of the match. The football law doesn't provide for that. The prosecutions will be initiated on the basis of Article 23, which provides that any person who, alone or in a group, incites beatings and injuries, hatred or anger towards one or more persons may incur one or more penalties. The participation in the production of a banner is therefore not part of the football law. Your last question, then. Annually, proceedings are initiated against supporters who have created and/or unfolded a banner or tipofo that incites hatred or anger and/or has entered the stadium and/or unfolded in the stadium. These are annual events and the sanctions that you yourself have mentioned are within that scope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-01-28-54-commissie-ic073x.u69	Minister, I used to be in a spy head myself, but in the meantime I moved to the other side, to the seats. Rivalry between players, between athletes, between clubs, is part of football, but of course hate and violence is not. As far as I'm concerned, this banner is as reprehensible as racist choirs and insulting chants. In the case of racist speakers of supporters, the referee may suspend the competition, but the club may also be held responsible and an administrative or other fine may be imposed on the club. Perhaps we should consider making clubs, which are partly responsible, liable for hate messages and violence. That might encourage them to work more preventively and to cooperate more when their supporters show objectionable behavior. Disgusting is also what we saw in this race, but not only in this race: throwing projectiles. A lot of lighters, flares and firefighters were thrown on the field at recent matches and this was also the case here. Perhaps we should then ask how we can deal more with the impunity that exists here. We may be able to take action in consultation with the regional Sport Ministers. Standard feels cheated because one had previously seen a different banner, but it should be the intention that they should be more involved in the story and act much more preventively, especially if they know the history of their own supporters. The most important thing is that this event should not cause the entire football sphere to be banned from the stadiums. It's always about a small minority of supporters holding the large group hostage, which Ultras would together be good for only 300 supporters. Ludieke tipofos need to stay in the stadium as much as possible, that gives atmosphere, that makes it fun.
