ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u1	Mr Minister, in the fight against terrorism, there is no doubt that law enforcement has a major role to play, both in repression and in prevention. It is also the object, among other things, of the CoPPRa (Community policy and the prevention of radicalisation) formations that fight, as the name suggests, against the phenomenon of radicalisation. However, it is up to us that during these trainings, certain stereotypes are, voluntarily or not, conveyed by the instructors. In particular, through examples taught to police officers in which specific communes are mentioned. For example, the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean would be mentioned several times and presented as a land favourable to radicalism. The situation is challenging, especially since the police officers involved in the CoPPRa training come from multiple police areas. Some have very little knowledge of the communes referred to in the courses and their vision of things is affected by prejudices colported by the instructors. This situation has consequences for the behaviour of police officers on mission, conditioned by these stereotypes. Is there no need to neutralize the data taught during the CoPPRa training? If the facts cited as an example in the training are based on statistics, would it not be wise to contextualise them with global, objective and comparative figures? Does not the current procedure entail a real risk of stigmatizing a municipality and a population in the eyes of law enforcement? Don't trainers, like teachers, have the obligation of impartiality and objectivity when teaching such a discipline that can potentially lead to discriminatory behaviour? Are they themselves subject to specific training or awareness-raising on anti-discrimination issues? Is the content of the training monitored? How are training programmes organized?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, before I answer your question in detail, I would first like to give you the functional framework of the CoPPRa training. This training was developed in 2013 in close collaboration with the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Diversity Unit of the Federal Police. It is with the Diversity Unit of the Federal Police that the document "The 13 Golden Rules of Diversity" was written, which each CoPPRa lecturer mentions at the beginning of the eight-hour training. It refers, inter alia, to respect, equality, diversity, the exclusion of stereotypes and prejudices and the introduction of ethnic profiling, which is in violation of the Anti-Discrimination Act. It also insists not to create polarization between different groups of individuals or individuals. The formation consists of six chapters, which relate to the process of radicalization, indicators and ideological differences, such as nationalism, separatism, anarchism, extreme left, extreme right and religiously inspired extremism/terrorism. An introduction to Islam, developed by an Islamologist who is part of the CoPPRa network of trainers, precedes the religious side and aims to make a good distinction between Islam and Islamism. Groups and mobilities based on the above-mentioned and active ideologies and/or having any connection with the Belgian territory, i.e. recruitment, financing, refuges, acts committed or accused, are discussed in class and explain the mention of Belgian cities and municipalities of nationals or other residents in the territory. The municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean is not mentioned at all in the slideshow of the presentation CoPPRa. The location of the problem is discussed without focusing on the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean. The aim of the training itself is to draw the police officer's attention to his key role within his population and to the importance of knowing the communities in the fight against violent radicalization and terrorism. The facts cited in the classroom mostly come from open sources and are not at all the subject of in-depth discussions or scientific or academic approaches. This action goes beyond the scope of this course. As far as your second question is concerned, during the development and implementation of the project, there has been considerable reflection on the possible risks, which is why the following steps have been taken. 1. The selection of lecturers after favourable advice from the chiefs of corps or service and after a positive interview made by the Core team CoPPRa. 2. A mandatory train the trainer training of five days for lecturers. 3. The mandatory presences on the days devoted to updating the content of the CoPPRa courses followed by the classroom evaluation of the trainers by the Core CoPPRa team, the obligation to follow up the content as defined and validated by the training management, the DGSOC service and the central anti-terrorism service, then the drafting of the note containing "The 13 golden rules of diversity" and finally the permanent monitoring of the Federal Police Diversity Cell and the monitoring by the P Committee. To answer your third question, in order to ensure that there is an obligation of impartiality and objectivity and to avoid discriminatory behaviour, the above-mentioned measures have been taken within the Directorate of Training and the Central Anti-Terrorism Service. This is one of the most monitored and evaluated trainings of the Belgian police. In addition to the mandatory train the trainer training of five days for lecturers, meetings for trainers are held at least two days a year in the presence of the Diversity Unit of the Federal Police and members of Committee P. The presence of trainers at the days dedicated to updating the content of the CoPPRa courses is mandatory. On the occasion of these days, expert partners are invited, the legal framework is recalled, as well as new legislation, new phenomena, groups, concrete cases lived in class are discussed in a very in-depth way, as well as current societal issues. With respect to your last question, as noted, the content of the training is subject to control by the training directorates and the central anti-terrorism department of the federal police. The eight-hour training is organized for local and federal police officers by police schools. They use the trainers included in the list of trainers sent to them by the training management. Approximately 12,000 police officers have already completed this training. At each training, they are asked to complete an evaluation form on the content, methodology and organization of the training. These assessments are reviewed by the National Academy of the Federal Police and are perceived as very positive. The P Committee that has already conducted a CoPPRa project monitoring survey is kept informed of any changes and adjustments to the courses. The five-day train the trainer training courses have been organized within the Federal Police in partnership with other intelligence services. These partners regularly provide feedback on the progress of the training.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u3	Minister, thank you for these answers. You inform me that when training is provided, for example, the municipality of Molenbeek is not mentioned. But according to a trainer who spoke anonymously in the press, Molenbeek was constantly pointed out during this police training. My fear is that these police officers do not know all the neighborhoods in Brussels and that this could undermine relations between police and citizens. We must avoid constantly referring, even orally, even if this is not part of the course, to those communes that have a so-called problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u4	Incidents can always occur, but I am convinced that the trainings that are given are never limited to a single case, to a single commune, to a single community. Many different contexts are cited. The overall context must be understood by people of medium intelligence. I don't think there's a problem with the class as a whole. This course presents the most extensive control elements, it is not found in other police courses. I am confident, I think it remains within acceptable limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u5	Mr President, Minister, you have welcomed in the press a 30% drop in crime in Brussels and Antwerp, to be linked, in your opinion, to the presence of military personnel in our streets. Early conclusions that have led to a leap in some public service unions, particularly in the police sector, which see this as a political statement that is oriented, non-objective, non-scientific and unverified. Minister, how do you explain that in Brussels, crime was already falling in 2014 without ever resorting to the army on the streets? How is it possible, objectively and over such a short period of time, to establish a correlation between crime and the presence of military personnel, while the police oversight bodies only issue considerations two years after the facts in order to be able to provide an informed statistical analysis? How can the presence of military personnel at specific and known locations have an impact on the reduction of robberies or single flights? And finally, would this willingness to prove by numbers the effectiveness of this security measure signify a willingness to extend the military presence alongside the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u6	Mrs Ben Hamou, we can speak of a persistent downward trend in crime in Belgium. As far as Brussels is concerned, crime figures show a decline, but it had already been noted before the military presence in strategic locations was requested. As a minister, I can only rejoice. This confirms, without being able to prove this link with security, that the police are doing their work effectively and I thank them for that. However, you are quite right: to establish causal links in the area of crime, further analysis is needed, if not scientific. I am aware of this and will be very attentive to the analyses that will be presented to me in this context. In all the interviews I gave to newspapers, magazines and the audiovisual media, when the journalist asked me if I saw a link, I always replied: "Yes, I see that there is something but I cannot prove it". It's too fast to make a connection between the two. I see the phenomenon of the decline in crime. Everyone is happy about this, but I am the first to say that proving the link between the presence of military personnel and the decline in crime is not feasible at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u8	Read the press, read the interviews where I was asked these questions. I've always nuanced this connection because we can't prove it. Nor can we prove otherwise. At this point, I've always done that nuance. This is also the case for the correlation between the decline in crime and the presence of military personnel in Brussels and Antwerp. This trend requires further analysis, comparison in time and place, and long-term confirmation. This may be one of several factors influencing crime statistics. I am not a criminologist or an analyst, but as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I am convinced that this measure has been indispensable to ensure the safety of our citizens and our society and is still so today. Of course, it has had a direct impact on the terrorist threat and, perhaps, it will be scientifically proven, on a decrease in crime in those places monitored by police and military personnel. With respect to the continued monitoring of strategic public sites by military personnel, this issue is regularly re-evaluated within the College of Intelligence and Security and the Government. It is also closely linked to the level of threat determined by the OCAM. In conclusion, I cannot prove the links between the presence of military personnel and the decline in crime, but I end with an anecdote. At Antwerp Central Station, there is a form of petty crime. Three or four years ago, the paratroopers practiced in this place. No crime was committed that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u9	Minister, I agree with you when you say that there is a need for a thorough, long-term investigation. Maybe there's a drop in crime. I'm married to a policeman and I know this environment very well. I haven't seen my husband for more than a month and a half. He didn't have any rest days. Constantly, he was called. He is a member of the Judicial Brigade and has had to provide continuous service. As the police officers were on the ground all the time, there was a decrease in insecurity. Everyone was requisitioned. The majority of the job: the surveillance, the patrols carried out on Brussels are carried out by the police. What bothers me is that the military is on the ground at static posts and that they have brought crime down while the police are actually doing the job. They have carried out a large number of missions. We must therefore congratulate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u10	Mrs. Ben Hamou, we're talking about 40,000 policemen and 300 soldiers. It is clear that if crime figures fall, it is due to these 40,000 policemen rather than to the military. In order to leave the specific policing tasks to the police, we needed the military to provide static protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the fight against violence against police officers is enshrined in the government agreement. Committee P has made it clear in recent years that this phenomenon is steadily worsening. Measures have been taken under the previous legislature. And you yourself, since you took office, have said that you have taken important initiatives, in particular to prevent the classification of this type of offence without further action. In addition, it is essential that initiatives be continued to strengthen respect for the integrity of public order representatives. Minister, is there a database that centralizes acts of violence against federal and local police officers? What are the latest known figures on this subject? Is your wish to see prosecutors give priority to complaints filed for this type of crime and to prevent any filing without further action? What modalities have been decided upon and communicated by your colleague from Justice on this matter? Is an accelerated procedure for dealing with this crime being implemented? Is there a directive from the College of Attorneys General or protocols between police and prosecutors by district to monitor the priorities of these different services?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u14	Mr. Pivin, Ministerial Circular GPI 62 of 14 February 2008 on the arming of the integrated police, structured on two levels, sets out the reporting obligations for any event accompanied by acts of violence by and against a police officer. The procedure provides for an alert at the level of the Federal Police Resource and Information Management Branch. This Directorate, in turn, communicates information to the departments responsible for monitoring, managing and analysing qualitative and quantitative events such as the Directorate of the Internal Occupational Prevention and Protection Service and its own Personnel Directorate, the Training Service and the General Inspection of the Federal and Local Police. Within these services, particular attention is paid to the issue of violence against police officers. There is currently no central and automated register of acts of violence against police officers. A working group composed of all partners interested in this topic was set up by my predecessor to organize a database of acts of violence committed against police officers in the integrated police force. There has been some progress in this regard. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee was informed of these leads and decided in January 2015 to set up an automated data bank which will also include all information on violent incidents and accidents at work. The development of this database is under way, but I cannot move forward at this stage with a timetable. As far as the judicial aspect is concerned, my colleague the Minister of Justice has already taken action at his level, in particular by adapting circular 03/2008 of the College of Attorneys General to the Court of Appeal concerning violence against persons with a mandate or public office, as well as against persons carrying out a public service or public service mission in contact with the public. This circular is incorporated into the police function, within its scope (revised version on 18 September 2014). The accelerated procedure for dealing with acts of violence against police officers is already applicable through the so-called "immediate appearance" procedure. This measure is therefore being implemented. With regard to the local police-Justice protocol agreements, they were submitted to the various partners. The problem seems to be solved through the adaptation of COL 03/2008 to the national level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u15	While in January 2015 it was decided to proceed with the development of this data bank, I take note of it and welcome it. I just hope that this will happen later this year. Otherwise, we would waste the observation that was made. Minister, I would ask you to ensure that by the end of this year we can already see concrete action on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u16	Mr President, Minister, we already have relatively worrying data on this issue. There are many incidents of robberies against independents and shopkeepers in stores. At the end of 2014, a barometer aimed at large distribution placed Belgium second in the European countries where shoplifting was the most important. In 2013, this type of flight accounted for 51% of all flights committed against traders and independents. This allowed the managing director of Comeos to declare, a few months ago, that "in terms of repression, there is almost nothing. Someone is surprised that he is committing a robbery and if he is arrested, he is released directly." But let us not be pessimistic: if we compare 2013 and 2014, we find, on the basis of the figures published by the ASBL Prevention and Safety, that in the case of shoplifting, there is a small decrease of 8% in 2014 compared to 2013. In 2013, there were 17,963 facts and, in 2014, 16,482 facts, which still represented a great deal of cases. Efforts are continuing. In the light of information received from police areas, this is an increasingly professional crime. Bands invade commercial hubs and emerge as quickly as they entered after shopping. These figures need to be relativized. Indeed, and this is more worrying, the Neutral Union for Independents recently cited a study indicating that only 3% of shoplifting flights are reported. The owners and operators of these victims are likely to be discouraged by repeated complaint procedures. There is now a facility for making, in some cases, a complaint via the Internet. But is this use of an Internet complaint procedure sufficiently known? I also know that an accelerated procedure has been organised for shoplifting in certain boroughs. Minister, in the light of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. We are now half the year 2015, do you confirm a downward trend for 2014-15? Indeed, during the period 2013-2014, a small decrease was recorded. What initiatives have already been taken within the police services to simplify administrative procedures for reporting flights, particularly for self-employed and traders? Does the Internet filing process work well? If so, are there plans to expand the list of facts that may be covered by this procedure? Does the accelerated procedure also work well? Are administrative sanctions used and effective enough to respond to this crime? Lastly, was there any consultation between the police services, the services of the Minister of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office to respond to the impunity highlighted by many operators (commercial or independent) who were victims of those situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u17	Mr Pivin, I do not yet have the figures for 2015 to compare with 2014. I can understand that the procedure for the declaration of theft may seem cumbersome for traders and independents who are victims of it. However, it is necessary to obtain all the information necessary to optimize the prosecution. That is why the police have invested at national level in an on-line "police-on-web" shop. This window provides the opportunity to report a flight to a store, subject to certain conditions. It must be an offence of which the perpetrator is unknown and which has no aggravating circumstances. Thus, there can be no question of breaking and entering. This on-line counter is efficient and secure. It provides an opportunity to describe the facts and the damage suffered. Once the electronic declaration has been made, the system provides proof of registration that can already be used by the trader or self-employed person and communicated to insurance companies. As part of the "e-police" project, which is being developed, I would like to do more computerization in order to facilitate police work, not only for the police, but also and above all for the citizens who will come into contact with it. At the justice level, initiatives have been launched to end the feeling of impunity and to make the intervention of the competent authorities more effective. However, I would like to add two more elements. First, the intervention of justice in the context of criminal acts, including shoplifting, is defined according to different criteria. For questions about procedures, criteria, etc., please contact the Minister of Justice because this is not within my jurisdiction. Secondly, according to the legally defined criteria and conditions, the King's prosecutor may impose a communal administrative sanction, make an immediate amicable arrangement, conduct criminal mediation or institute legal proceedings in the context of criminal acts, including shoplifting. Practices vary from one prosecutor to another according to the prosecution priorities set by each Crown prosecutor, taking into account local crime, police capacity, the organization of the courts of first instance by their respective presidents and the capacity of the judiciary. In order to do so, a consultation is organised with the local police, the competent authorities at the local level. In addition, we note the immediate appearance hearings that have been held every two months in the Antwerp section since 2010. As part of this procedure, the perpetrator of a shoplifting flight shall receive, immediately after the events, within 24 hours, a summons to appear in court. He must justify himself before the court within one month of the date of the facts. The procedure of the immediate transaction applied since 2011 in the districts of Hasselt and Antwerp deserves to be emphasized in the context of the intervention of the Justice for shoplifting. Through this procedure, the person suspected of shoplifting is immediately offered by the police the possibility of an amicable arrangement, i.e. an amount to be paid within 15 days. If the suspect does not make the payment of this arrangement amicably, he will then be summoned to appear. In short, police and justice are making the necessary efforts to combat this phenomenon of shoplifting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u18	Minister, thank you. You have cited the examples of Hasselt and Antwerp. Does this mean that they are the only ones currently developing the immediate transaction in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u19	Yes, they're the only ones who implemented it. Depending on the results obtained, the local authorities in the other areas will decide whether or not to use it. At the federal level, the law makes it possible to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u20	Mr President, Minister, you will excuse me for being a little long, but the subject is particularly sensitive and topical. The chronology of the unpreparedness of some regional governments in choosing the renewal of electronic voting material during elections is no longer to be done. I did enough when I was a member of Parliament in the Brussels Region. I did not spare the number of inquiries to the various ministers-presidents for a few years. The bug suffered in Brussels and in some Walloon municipalities during the May 2014 elections led some officials to ask for a return to the paper voting system, even before any precise analysis report of the reasons for this bug. Today, the report of the College of Experts on the operation of the 2014 elections is known to all. It is known that experts have hustled the mechanism of the JITES system of electronic voting. Since 2000, the same college of experts has called for the JITES system to be updated or replaced for all elections (municipal, provincial, regional, federal and European), rather than using a system that has become obsolete in their eyes, in Brussels municipalities and a few dozen Walloon municipalities. The next elections are scheduled for 2018. They will be local and will therefore be subject to the supervision of the Regions. However, the equipment used in these elections will be the same as that used in May 2019. What applies to one electoral issue at the technological level must apply to another, even if the tutelage is not the same. On 6 January, we were able to hear the explanations of the panel of experts on the occasion of the presentation of their report. No later than two months later, Mr. Minister, you wrote to the communes a deceiving letter. In any case, he had the merit of being extremely clear. I'll come back. Last week, the Walloon Parliament stood for the end of the electronic vote. In 2014, two systems coexisted in the Brussels Region as reasonable time for decision-making had not been respected. A system was therefore applied in 17 communes and another pilot system in two communes in the Brussels Region. Yet, for some time now, the minister-president had said in committee, I quote, "the computer park in the Brussels region is at the end of the race and this is a problem that will have to be answered". We're at exactly the same point as I'm talking to you! This is the Belgian landscape with responsibilities taken, or not, by the federated entities. I would just like to recall that for the last elections, those of May 2014, the text organizing these elections was adopted only two months before, on 7 February. I think we have enough opportunities to have stress than to generate even more when it's not necessary! What I also know is that the federal state, even though I was not as attentive to it as I am today, had at the time proposed to the federated entities to participate, within the framework of a memorandum of understanding, in the implementation of the complete renewal of JITES equipment by a new system known as Smartmatic. An interdepartmental working group had also been set up. This Smartmatic system seems to meet the basic requirements of a secure, transparent and confidential vote. These last three words are the key words of my oral question because that is really what this is about. We must have in Belgium, as elsewhere in a democratic system, a system that guarantees the security, confidentiality, transparency and integrity of the vote. The current situation in our country is pretty messy. 3.5 million Belgians vote electronically, i.e. 45% of voters: 100% in the Brussels region, 50% in Flanders and 20% in Wallonia, where this could soon disappear, given the decision just taken by the Walloon Parliament. The Walloon government agreement makes clear its wish for a return to the paper vote. A parliamentary resolution has just been adopted. It is not neutral; it is a decision that has been suggested by an opposition party but is supported by the majority parties in the Walloon Parliament. This suggests that this will be an important factor in our future discussions. As far as the Brussels Region is concerned, there is still nothing to see coming. The Brussels people voted with a system that was said to be obsolete or about to be obsolete. They continued to vote with this system. Minister, you will understand my concern behind my somewhat sad or cynical tone. Speaking to you, I am thinking of my very first intervention in 2009, three years before the 2012 elections. I asked Mrs Dupuis, chairman of the Committee on General Affairs, what we were going to do about this. She told me that was a very good question. It was three years ago. You saw what happened with the 2012 communal elections. So I can legitimately be worried. Today Wallonia makes statements but does not make a decision. Brussels is silent and does not act. Meanwhile, there is no advance in the organization of elections that are getting closer and closer. We are now mid-2015, the preparations for the communal elections are approaching, followed by the federal elections a few months later. I am sure that many decision-makers have a hand in their portfolio. It is still a vaudeville, a part of which must be whistled the end, sufficiently early. Minister, you have taken your responsibilities. As I said earlier, you indicated it in writing. You "moulded" yourself on the subject by contacting all the municipalities in a letter stating that "The College of Experts recommends the abandonment of this system and its replacement by a uniform system." This is indeed what is recommended in the 2014 report of the College of Experts. However, I would point out that the College of Experts was already asking for this in 2000. Moreover, the experts write in their report that they want a uniform system for all elections in Belgium, regardless of the organising power, to guarantee citizens better means of control. We can't be clearer. Besides, you put the nail in your mail again, which we all received. But since March, I haven't seen anything coming. On the contrary, I feel that we are taking a different direction from that advocated by the experts. That is why I am concerned, and I am even more concerned, by the fact that the company Stesud, which is now called Civadis - as you pointed out in your mail -, which is exclusively responsible for the maintenance of the JITES system, has declared that it has become impossible to use it, because it belongs to the old generation. My questions will be very specific. Is the interdepartmental working group still active? I want to ask you if he still exists. Are you aware of the choice that will be made in the 165 Flemish municipalities that still vote via the paper system? What is their intention for the elections to be held in three years' time? Is the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Federal and the Flemish Government on the renewal of the Smartmatic system still valid for the 2018 and 2019 elections? Have you received a signal, a letter or a note from the Walloon government regarding its willingness to return to the paper vote? Have you received any requests from the Brussels government for the renewal of JITES equipment in the seventeen Brussels municipalities that were still using it in 2014, to standardize and modernize this system with Smartmatic equipment in place in the pilot communes of Saint-Gilles and Woluwe-Saint-Pierre? As regards the replacement of paper voting in almost half of the Flemish municipalities and the replacement of obsolete equipment in 17 Brussels municipalities and in Wallonia by the Smartmatic system, has a procedure been drawn up in consultation in terms of impact and financial distribution? The aim is for politicians to decide to follow, finally, fifteen years after the first conclusions of the College of Experts, the recommendations of the said experts on the harmonisation of voting systems. Finally, in terms of the usual cost comparisons that are often seen in discussions between paper voting and electronic voting, has there been an accounting for the number of people required for paper voting and for the number of people required for counting and checking? You have to be able to compare apples and apples and not apples and pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u21	Mr Pivin, on 12 March I actually sent a letter to the 56 municipalities that used the first-generation automated voting system in 2014 to inform them of the decision not to use this system in federal elections, namely the European, legislative, regional and Community elections. In the same vein, it is for the federated entities to decide on the use of the electronic voting system in local elections, for which they are competent. To date, I have not received any official information from the federated entities on this matter, whether from the Walloon Region or the German-speaking Community on a full return to the paper vote, whether from the Brussels Region with regard to the 17 municipalities that used the first generation automated voting systems in 2014 or from the Flemish Region with regard to the use of the new electronic voting systems in the 157 municipalities that were still voting in a traditional way. It is important that this choice be made within a reasonable time frame in order to allow my administration a calm preparation for the local elections of 2018 and the simultaneous elections of 2019. Whatever the method of voting by these federated entities for the future, specific actions will have to be undertaken by the federal services in collaboration, if possible and in a desirable manner, with our regional and Community colleagues in order to form the communes concerned, whether it is paper voting or the new electronic voting system. In any event, my administration will make the necessary contacts in the coming weeks in order to gather their respective positions. I would remind you that the federated entities are quite autonomous in making the choice of voting system (paper or electronic). Therefore, the federal government will adopt, for the sake of consistency, economy and uniformity, the same voting systems (paper or electronic) for elections within its jurisdiction as the one or those chosen by each federated entity for its own. Voters will therefore vote in their communes in the same way for all elections. The federal level will therefore adapt to the system chosen by the federated entities. As regards the new electronic voting systems with paper proof, a framework contract setting up a central purchasing body for electronic voting supplies and/or services was signed on 30 January 2012 between the Internal SPF, the Flemish Region and the Brussels-Capital Region, following the award of the public contract to Smartmatic under the cooperation agreement concluded in this respect. As this framework contract is concluded for a period of 15 years, it remains valid and is open to any federated entity wishing to acquire new electronic voting systems. The Walloon Region is not, to date, a party to this framework contract but, of course, remains free to join it if it so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u22	Minister, I take note of the fact that to date you have nothing, no signal either in one direction or in another, on the part of anyone. And that's what reinforces my concern. I feel like I'm in the Brussels Region, facing Charles Picqué telling me that we need to look at the situation and anticipate, etc. It is essential that you take – and you said you were going to do it, which I welcome – initiatives for consultation, rather than allowing everyone to continue to operate alone in their own corner. For this is a bit what we are witnessing at the moment: each power remains in its corner and advances by not worrying about the other levels, with the risk increasingly greater than the Belgians, as a whole, vote differently according to the methodologies that are proposed to them in one Region rather than in another. That, in my view, is what we must avoid at all costs. On the contrary, the aim must be to harmonise the different systems. I therefore plead for you to take the leadership of the operation, even if electoral issues depend on other levels of power. Enter the file in such a way that in 2018 or 2019 we do not revisit the problems we faced in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the signaling association raised the alarm a while ago. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find volunteers who want to act as signalers at sports events, among others. In addition, it is becoming increasingly difficult for signalers to carry out their tasks properly. Not only is there an increase in the number of cases of aggression against these people, but the local police areas are also increasingly demanding of them. These are tasks for which they are not in principle competent, they say. Minister, do you already have any proposals to give better support to the signalers? Do you see any possibility of extending their powers? Do you think that's desirable? In this case, what additional training courses would be needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u24	Mr President, Mr Demon, thanks to the sixth state reform, the regulation of the status of signalers is no longer a federal competence, it is a competence of the regions. Therefore, I cannot rule on an extension of competence. It's up to the Regions. As regards the financial status of the signalers, it is up to the cycling associations and the organisers of the competitions to arrange this. However, I would like to point out that in 2004 the activities of accompanying groups of persons for the purpose of road safety were registered in the law of 10 April 1990 regulating private and special safety. As a result, it may be possible, but it should not be used as a signaler in addition to the voluntary signalers. These security officers have received appropriate training to carry out this activity. However, the essence of the case has become a competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u25	I am not sure, Minister, but I am not sure. So we will have to raise our ears to your colleague in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u26	Mr Demon, the great advantage of being able to ask questions is that you get answers and know more than before you asked the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u27	Mr President, Minister, our society and our police services are increasingly confronted with criminals who use the latest technology to commit their crimes. Our services are often behind the facts. It is therefore important that they evolve in technical terms and that the latest techniques are used to prevent and pro-active. The ANPR system enables the services to do good work and do more than simply identify traffic offences. ANPR can signal suspicious vehicles so the police can carry out proactive checks. It is precisely in this area that there are differences of interpretation in the field. I am thinking, for example, of signaling an uninsured vehicle. Sometimes the question arises as to whether the police should wait before intervening until the vehicle gets involved in an accident. However, is it not our job to prevent casualties? By this, I mean not just the can damage, but the insurance cover for the victims of the accident. Although the ANPR system can be useful in many ways, there is disagreement about its lawful application. For example, can the police use the ANPR cameras to pick suspicious vehicles from traffic, to hold up scavenging criminals, to possibly even prevent terrorist attacks? Some claim that these cameras may only be used for purely administrative police purposes, and that the use of this system against crime should be subject to the approval of the court, i.e. by the King's Attorney. For the sake of legal certainty, can you tell us more about the legal framework for the use of ANPR cameras? Can they be used to track, prevent or tackle suspects? Is a police officer not required to be able to intervene immediately in the processing of offences if he identifies other crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u28	Mr President, Mr Degroote, as regards your first question, the use of ANPR cameras by police forces was introduced in 2014 in accordance with Article 7/1 of the Law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras. As indicated in the definition of a surveillance camera, the purpose of the use of ANPR cameras is to prevent, detect, detect or maintain public order offences against persons or property or nuisance within the meaning of Article 135 of the new Municipal Act. This means that they can be used for both administrative and judicial police missions. When we installed in Brasschaat our first ANPR cameras, cameras for route control, we had already caught a criminal within three days. That was very good for the public's support. As for your final question, any police officer who identifies a crime by using an ANPR camera is obliged to act. The obligation to act in the event of a crime and to draw up a report thereof is included in the law of the police officer and in the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's clear to me. I will deliver it to those who are still in doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 4676 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Heeren's 4685 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 4921 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u31	Mr President, Minister, certain diplomas and qualifications, listed by Royal Decree of 15 March 1995, are entitled to allowances for professional operational managers in the relief services. These certificates, diplomas and certificates, the amount of which varies according to the will of the rescue zones, are divided into two lists, A and B. These lists are drawn up by ministerial decree and the Royal Decree sets out the framework for them. Insistently speaking, the Royal Decree of 1995 is being rehabilitated as part of the ongoing reform. Could you tell me how far these new lists are being drawn up? When can we wait for this rehabilitation? In terms of content, will the valuation of these diploma allowances be strictly in line with the tasks assigned to the officer or non-commissioned officer who will receive them? This seems important to me, since today diplomas are linked to the various allowances, whereas in the area covered this competence is not particularly necessary. I would have liked to hear from you about this, knowing that it has a financial impact on the areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u32	Dear colleague, a draft royal decree replacing the Royal Decree of 20 June 1994 and a ministerial decree of 15 March 1995 are in the process of being drafted. It became clear that the list set out in the Ministerial Decree of 1995 should be updated in the light of the evolution of training provided and useful in the fire departments. The aim is to provide an allowance for the specializations followed by firefighters. With the term "firefighter, I refer to every operational staff member, regardless of rank, who holds a certificate valid for the specialization in question, who performs the function and follows the exercises. Discussions on the project have already taken place with trade union organisations, federations and unions of cities and municipalities. The project still has to follow the traditional administrative path. Anyway, for now, I have the opinion of the Inspector of Finance. I expect an agreement from the Minister of Budget before I can present it to the government for a first reading. Then I will have to wait for the opinion of the Council of State before proceeding to a second reading in order to be able to finish this royal decree. I think we'll be able to publish it after the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I am delighted to know that the royal decree and the ministerial decree will come into force, as soon as the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u34	We're gonna make a little change to the agenda. We had to move on to question No 4707 by Mrs Matz, but we will begin with Mrs Matz's inquiry under agenda item 34/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u35	Mr Minister, I have not asked to invert the points, but, as I am here, I would like to do so. We have already had the opportunity, in the distant past, to discuss a draft royal decree that had been undertaken under the previous legislature and now taken over and adapted by your cabinet in order to reform the training and status of firefighters according to the needs of the sector. The unions felt, however, that the reform undertaken by Mrs Milquet was completely detrigued. Thus, trade unions deplore a number of parameters for this future reform and Belgium would soon be hit by a new strike by the relief services. I've seen you've met a union organization in the meantime. The expectations in this sector are enormous. The main problem was the time required for development. It seems, today, that you have reached the goal. What are the main problems with this draft royal decree on training? One of them concerns volunteer firefighters. On February 11, 2015, you informed me that there were some adjustments to the draft royal decree to take into account the fact that volunteer firefighters are engaged in a main professional activity. You also told me that you did not want the level of training changed, that things were changing and that it was unthinkable that firefighters should be trained in a different way, whether professional or voluntary. Mr Minister, today, on reading this draft order, it seems that the level of training is different, in any case as regards continuing training for certain grades at the level of volunteer firefighters. Can you confirm this option and explain it to me? What is the status of this project, which was being finalized in February? Have the various consultations that were to take place in the context of this draft decree taken place? Would you like to take into account the justified demands of the unions? The latter blamed the draft royal decree for non-compliance with the law establishing the labour regulations, non-compliance with the legislation with regard to the welfare code, and non-compliance with acquired rights. In addition, in my view, this draft decree poses a problem at various levels. I have noted ten anomalies on which I will not extend. However, some of the measures envisaged tend to give relief areas more force to the detriment of more central and general training bodies. At the level of the sports events organised within the framework of the traineeship, the requirement is lower at the beginning of the traineeship and it is only later that the evaluation of the sports skills is carried out. This way, people can be wasted for several months. This draft decree has given rise to a whole series of comments which I am not going to list in their entirety because they are very technical. What concerns me is the different level of training, depending on whether you are a professional firefighter or a volunteer, with some differences, particularly in the level of continuing training. Do you not think that this distinction, whether professional or voluntary, disappears when you are on the scene of a fire? In addition, do you not think that the principle which presided over the drafting of this decree, under your predecessor Joëlle Milquet, namely the same grade, the same function equal to the same training, must be maintained? It is not a question of discouraging volunteers, on the contrary. I come from a region where firefighters are almost exclusively volunteers. I know their situation very well. I don't think they're being given a good service by relaxing the ongoing training. Minister, these are my main questions. I also wonder about the consultation you have conducted or still have to carry out on this draft royal decree. In addition, there are still ten comments I have made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u36	Mrs Matz, I think you have a wrong perception of this case, since there is no question of a reversal. I repeat the main points of the draft royal decree. The level of training will generally be greatly increased for both professional firefighters and volunteers. The training of volunteers, like that of professionals, is well organized within fire schools. We have planned that the trainings will take place in the area, if possible of course, and under the supervision of the fire schools. The draft royal decree has more than 100 hours of training in the basic framework as well as in the middle and senior management. As far as the content is concerned, I do not foresee any difference between the training of professional firefighters and that of volunteer firefighters. For corporal training, there will also be no difference. Indeed, the tasks of these firefighters are only at the level of the so-called hot tasks. I stress that the training related to interventions remains completely identical for professional and voluntary firefighters. There's no difference. From the middle frame, the team leaders, I found that part of the training contains modules relating to so-called cold tasks. This is a fire prevention training module, a training module to become an instructor, and an evaluation training module. For these modules, which are intended for sergeants, it is true that a suitable program is provided for volunteers who wish to obtain the necessary certificate to reach the rank of sergeant, who is the team leader. In concrete terms, volunteers can choose from one of the three modules, whereas they are mandatory for professional firefighters. I repeat that these are training modules related to prevention, evaluation and training to become an instructor. Taking into account that this training will be in addition to the 226 hours of so-called hot training and according to the module chosen by the volunteer firefighter, it will be a maximum difference of 80 hours out of a total of 334 hours of training. Volunteers who want to follow the three modules can, they are even encouraged to do so. But they don't have to. It's not new! I have already said this several times before this committee. I want the volunteer workload to remain feasible. Why is a distinction legitimate? I fear that too much training to reach the rank of sergeant will discourage many volunteers from taking it. The volunteer firefighter must be able to combine this function with his or her main profession and his or her private life. Without differentiation, there is a fear of being faced with a shortage of voluntary staff at the middle level. A sergeant must accompany the first emergency car. Therefore, if the sergeants are insufficient in number, the first car will take more time to leave. I repeat that training, evaluating or carrying out preventive actions has nothing to do with letting this first car go. These are not skills that are needed at this time. Where are we? On 20 May 2015, the project was discussed at the Conseil Supérieur de la Formation. There were still technical comments, but there seems to be sufficient support to continue with the current project. The Inspector of Finance is currently drafting an opinion. The opinions of the Regions and my Budget colleague are being sought and a formal consultation was planned in late June-early July within the framework of the Provincial and Local Public Services Committee. Trade unions have always been consulted through informal consultations. Consultations were also held with the unions of the cities and communes as well as with the fire brigades. The texts have already been adapted on several occasions in the light of the comments made during these consultations. Indeed, the draft royal decree contains adaptations to the statute in order to bring the royal decree into line with the statute. It also contains amendments, which I can fine-tune, to existing royal decrees that cause non-compliance with legislation or problems on the ground. I had a consultation with the social partners. The problems then put on the table had almost nothing to do with this royal decree on training. Rather, these were problems on the ground as a result of the way in which the reorganization took place. Employers are the local areas. If they don't adapt the law properly, it's up to me and my inspection department to intervene. That is why I proposed to the trade union partners to provide me with a list of the problems identified in the various areas. I want to intervene with union partners and employers, colleges and councils to see how these problems can be solved. They used, as I understand it, the concertation on the royal decree to identify unrelated problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. You're going to have a formal consultation at the end of June. It is true that the informal dialogue that has probably already taken place is, in essence, not formal in nature. For the time being, they have the impression that their remarks are not fully taken into account. You have talked about trade union organisations that highlight a number of problems. We must not forget the Federation of Firefighters, which has at heart the draft royal decree, the formations, the fire schools, everything that is in this royal decree. This important aspect should not be overlooked. I find that allowing the areas to organise training does not meet the objective of standardization which was that of territorial reform. I know that this is still a possibility and that projects are sent to the central level for validation, but this remains at the discretion of an area. This gives the impression that, through this royal decree, the principle of standardization, which had been the very driving force behind this reform and the creation of larger areas, is somewhat undermined. I understand very well your concern about the accessibility of volunteers to what you call "cold job" training. It is understandable that it is those that are not directly related to fire intervention, which are quite different. This is what I was telling you: in certain grades and in certain types of training which are more of the order of continuing training. I find this a pity, because the principle of uniformity that had been desired by the reform is also being breached. If you want, I can meet with a member of your firm to share my concerns about the ten points. I feel like we're working on the map. I can quote a dozen articles from this decree that show that we want to address a more local or zonal problem. It bothers me. The initial principle, however, was that of an identical service throughout the territory offered to the entire population. That will not exactly be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u38	Joined Questions No 4706 by Mrs Vanessa Matz and No 4922 by Mr Denis Ducrame are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u39	Mr President, Mr Ducrame has asked me to postpone my question No 4706 so that he can be present to ask his attached question No 4922. You see that, even in the opposition, we are doing great things for the majority. Minister, several jihadists were released after serving a prison sentence. Without going into the details because I know these are sensitive subjects, I would like to know whether you have a general approach or on a case-by-case basis depending on the seriousness of the facts or the situation of the person being followed. In general, what types of measures are in place to monitor these individuals with regard to a possible return to Syria or Iraq or the possible commission of a new attack?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u40	Mrs Matz, the monitoring of foreign fighters released under conditions or under electronic supervision has already been the subject of numerous initiatives. In addition to the monitoring by the police of compliance with the conditions of release imposed by the judge, various measures have been developed to limit the danger that such persons may represent. The 12 measures announced by the government in January 2015 to combat radicalism are in this direction. These measures provide for a number of concrete actions which are primarily aimed at avoiding the departure of an individual to jihad: temporary withdrawal of the identity card, refusal to issue or withdrawal of the passport. But they also aim to improve the follow-up of those who participated in the fighting and returned to Belgium. In this context, the circular of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice of 25 September 2014 on the management of information and follow-up measures for foreign fighters residing in Belgium is being revised in order to achieve a simplification of the current structures and a clearer division of tasks between the services, as well as a systematisation of the way in which follow-up will be carried out. In addition, an optimal exchange of information between the authorities and the administrative and judicial services is being established. Within this framework, the federal government works intensively with the actors of the Communities and the Regions to coordinate the various actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u41	Minister, don't be mad at me to tell you that several weeks or even months ago you said that you are going to amend the September 2014 bulletin on division of labour taken by Melchior Wathelet in order to optimize it. Things are probably to be revised in this circular. I do not understand why this has not yet been done. As for the withdrawal of travel documents, the Consular Code currently allows passports to be withdrawn, as much as it is still missing, and you have regretted it with me, Belgian legislation to allow the removal of identity cards, with an opinion of the Council of State which does not end. The last thing I read from you was that the texts will not be tabled until September. We can only regret this very slowness.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u42	Mr. President, Minister, when I read these amazing statements from the Director General of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, I fell out of my chair! I wondered if I'd read it! I read the interview a little later, I guess you did the same. My questions are related to these statements. How do you react when Mr Bens admits that he has proposed "envelopes" of corruption? It was certainly in a previous position, but it is he who today has a strong commitment to energy policy. It gives green lights or red lights and it must have an ethics and behaviour above all suspicion. Following the meeting of the Board of Directors on Friday, do you know more about what it was about in practice? What did he mean by these "envelopes"? When we interviewed you last Thursday in plenary, you replied that you were waiting for the board of directors. This is a legitimate position, but today this meeting has taken place and I suppose you will be able to present the facts exactly. I would also like to check that you have all your assurances that Mr Bens is not involved in anything other than the 10,000 euro envelope discussed in the press. In 1997, when Mr. Bens was in place in Kazakhstan, Tractebel negotiated the gas concession. As part of this concession, a bizarre envelope of €55 million was handed over to an unrecommended trio, including Patokh Chodiev. I want to check that you have every guarantee that Mr. Bens was involved in nothing but this 10,000-euro envelope for a doctor. Did the funds raised for the dismantling of Synatom plants directly or indirectly contribute to the payment of these famous 55 million commissions? What do we do with the money that citizens pay for the dismantling of power plants? There is the question of corruption, but in this interview, there are other things just as amazing, such as the fact that there would have been only two deaths in Fukushima. What did the board say about these elements? I read that the board of directors had positioned itself on corruption, but I also want to know what he thought about Mr. Bens' remarks that there would have been only two deaths in Fukushima. I would also like to know your position on this item. I assume you won't confirm this figure of two deaths since the local authorities themselves speak of more than 1,600 deaths specifically related to the consequences of the nuclear-partial incident. There are also the considerations of the Federal Agency's boss on legal acrobatics a little weird about Mrs. Marghem's law. We are not surprised, we have already read the opinions of the Council of State on this matter. Does this not prompt the government to urgently reconsider its position when the Federal Agency says that? What is transversal to all these elements is the fact that Mr. Bens reread the interview. He therefore validated the words transcribed in the newspaper Le Soir. At the very least, there is a naivety problem on this validation. I also wanted to hear from you about this dimension. There is also the decision of the board of directors and the communication made by Mr. Bens that he would no longer respond to press requests. It's for the least part special! Should someone who is at the head of an agency that must precisely inform us of the nuclear safety situation today be silent when a journalist telephones him to answer questions? It's amazing! We're adding problems! Minister, do you accept, as the appropriate minister, that the boss of the Federal Agency has taken the position of silence when a journalist questions him? In plenary, you indicated that you were awaiting the report of the Board of Directors. It has now taken place. Have you given assignments to your Commissioner to go beyond what was decided by the Board of Directors? It is known that the result of the vote was tight, that there was no unanimity on the board of directors. I suppose this circumstance has caught your attention. Finally, in general, what credibility does Mr Bens still have in your eyes today? In the eyes of the government? Would I dare to ask in the eyes of the citizen too? Having said this, is he still in a position to judge the important decisions that will have to be taken on nuclear safety, on the extension of power stations, on the cracks in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors? Do you still trust him? Can we still trust him? People say they're worried. Can they today be reassured by your comments that would distance themselves from Mr. Bens's?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u43	Mr President, Minister, we were all surprised, even shocked, by the words of Mr Bens on June 1st in the newspaper Le Soir. These comments have been controversial. We've already talked a lot about this in this chamber. I tabled a question last week, which did not go into committee because there were these topical questions on the subject. I also requested that Mr Bens be heard in the Committee on the Interior, which was rejected by the majority. This request was also rejected by the majority in the Committee on the Economy. It seems that in the Conference of Presidents, we finally got an agreement for him to come. I do not know whether he will come to the Committee on Economic Affairs or to the Joint Committee on Economic and Internal Affairs or to the subcommittee. But I think that this debate should come to our committee. The debate on nuclear safety is taking place in the Committee on the Economy. I find that particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u44	Politically, it's here, but the deputy head's hearing will take place in a sub-committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u45	Minister, in plenary, you referred to Friday's board of directors. That makes quite sense, given that you have a commissioner of the government. The board of directors has been held and, like my colleague, I would obviously like you to clarify what has been said in this board of directors. What was your Commissioner's position? It would appear that the position of the Board of Directors in support of the Director General has not been unanimous and that there have been differences. Can you tell us more? Finally, can you tell us what your political line is in relation to the Agency and these events?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I was asked to read Jan Bens' interview in the newspaper Le Soir. Some statements by the Director General of the AFCN could not remain unanswered or unexplained. The nuclear safety agency must, in all circumstances, be able to demonstrate full and irreproachable credibility and integrity. Its director must of course be a reflection of these fundamental values. That is why my firm, after reading the interview, made direct contact with the Chairman of the PSAN Board of Directors by requesting that the Board of Directors clarify these statements as quickly as possible. My firm also contacted Mr. Bens to inform him that the request was addressed to the board of directors. On the basis of Jan Bens's hearing, the Board of Directors decided to confirm its confidence in the Director General of AFCN. Indeed, Jan Bens confirmed that he did not, at any time, resort to corruption as part of his mission for Tractebel in Kazakhstan. The only envelope he gave was that intended for a doctor to care for one of his collaborators. These were medical and humanitarian reasons. The least we can say is that, in his interview, Mr. Bens played with fire. It is indeed very imprudent to formulate such things in the press. He nevertheless convinced the board of directors. The Board of Directors regrets the awkward remarks made by the Director General who did not measure the scope of his interview with the Soir and the impact on confidence in the Agency and its reputation. The Board of Directors reiterated the importance of discernment in its communication so as not to call into question the credibility and integrity of the Agency. I have taken note of the decision of the Management Board and, on the basis of the information presented to me, have decided to follow it. At my request, the Board of Directors also decided that an external office would conduct an annual evaluation of all members of the Agency's Executive Committee. Board members must respect the confidentiality of discussions within the Board. I therefore do not wish to comment on what may have appeared in the press on this subject. As far as the Fukushima accident is concerned, it is true that we must not only focus on the direct consequences of an incident, but also on its indirect consequences, such as the assessment and socio-economic impact of such an incident, which also play an important role. AFCN informed my firm that, by "legal acrobatics", Mr. Bens understood the turbulent course of the Belgian law on the release of nuclear energy since 2013. Mr Nollet, as regards your conclusion that Mr Bens should no longer speak in the press, I do not agree with you. I find that with his skills and responsibilities, he is obliged to communicate. But it is not within his competence to comment on a course of legal acrobatics and how a bill is dealt with. In his comments, he must focus on his competencies and responsibilities within the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u47	Minister, you're saying that Mr. Bens played with the fire. No. He lit the fire, both in his interview and in his rereading. The fire is far from extinguished. It is not a vote, though tight, on a board of directors that will extinguish it. We'll get it in Parliament next week. He'll have to explain himself. There are far too many malfeasances - to repeat your words - in his remarks, but there is above all too much minimization and banalisation of the dangers posed by nuclear power, especially when he refers to Fukushima. There is, however, a point that reassures me in your answer. You don't approve of Mr. Bens' silence when the press asks for it. I have before me an e-mail sent on 5 June, in which he states that he will no longer answer the journalists' questions. He therefore persists in error. On the nuclear issue, we need real transparency and a credible Agency more than ever. But it has lost all credibility. No, not everything can be justified a posteriori by saying that this is not what we meant. He was able to read this article again. The ecologists are waiting for Mr Bens on a firm stand in committee next week. The file is not closed; the fire still covers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u48	Minister, I have always liked your political line of saying that, no matter what, you would follow the advice of the AFCN. However, trust in this agency has deteriorated because of the words of its director. Unlike my colleague, I will not say that his credibility is being undermined - I will be more measured - but it seems to me essential that Parliament hear the Director General's explanations next week. As for the envelope for the doctor, I suppose he was a great specialist because his fees were quite expensive. As for acrobatics, we all understood that he was saying something else, that it was not about the difficulty of the debate but about how it was conducted. His explanation was just an attempt to catch up. We'll ask him next week. There is an urgent need for Mr. Bens to restore the credibility of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u49	Mr. Chairman, there has been a misconception in the tabling of a motion following the emergency services inquiry. Since the item was placed on the Orders of the Day at the request of a colleague, my motion was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you for a small favor because of the sensitivity I had towards the colleagues. The latter may have the same delicacy towards me for a motion that is not very mean. I know we're derogating from the rules...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u50	The Rules of the Chamber are explicit. Rule 131 states that "if no motion is filed at the end of the reply, the incident shall be terminated. If, on the other hand, motions are tabled at the end of the replies, only the discussion is closed." You may table a motion, but it is not mandatory. I understand your frustration, but I have to abide by the rules. You can always reintroduce an arrest.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u51	Mr. Chairman, I am not going to bother the minister every week with the same content.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u52	Could we not call a member of the majority to table the motion outright?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u53	According to the Rules, the incident is closed! As President, I am applying the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u54	Next time, I'll do my business in my corner! I will tell Mr Ducarme that I am asking my question although he is not here and I will tell the member of the N-VA who came to me that he is going to be hanged! No one else will know but us and we do not put the institution in jeopardy by tabling this motion!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u55	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u56	Mr President, I feel a little hesitant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u57	No, I don't doubt it. I'm just having second thoughts about translating everything into French.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u58	What are the solutions for Mrs Matz? Submit a new interplay?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u59	Ja. She did not table the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u60	I saw she dropped it off, but the paper stole.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u61	There's a lot of air in this commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u62	When the window opened, I saw it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u63	I am sorry, but I must apply the Rules of Procedure, both for the majority and for the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u64	Mr. Degroote came to ask me if I had a motion. I said yes to him. It was clear. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u65	You dropped her off, but she stole if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u66	We're not going to spend our afternoon on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u68	Mr President, we have a conflict here between the Rules of Procedure and common sense. Could you not accept the motion and allow the Conference of Presidents to decide whether or not to proceed? You can view the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u69	The Conference of Presidents will not meet again until next Wednesday. So there's a week in between.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u70	Then it's Thursday...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u71	I would like to say that, of course, it will not be in the integrated report. I did not read the motion and I did not accept the simple motion. I can only refer this matter to you as a theoretical case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u72	Grab the president and we'll see if there's a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u73	This is indeed a matter of balancing common sense with the Rules of Procedure. In fact, I could accept the motion if the small group were here, but the Rules of Procedure expressly forbid me from doing so. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u74	At the end of April, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) organized a new meeting of the International Review Board in Brussels. During this meeting, the experts were to look at the results of the complementary test campaigns conducted by Electrabel over the past year on the cracks discovered at Doel 3 and Tihange 2. The experts discussed the results for three days. On the basis of these discussions, they had to be able to decide on the methodology to be used by Electrabel to draft the relevant chapter of his justification file. We are now a month and a half later. I suppose the conclusions are known. Can you give me the conclusions of the experts in this field? Have they been publicly posted on the AFCN website? I have searched in vain, but this must be due to a reference or address problem. What is the most precise calendar possible for the follow-up of events on this fissure file? Above all, I would like to know the next steps, as Mr Bens said in this famous interview that the reopening could be announced for the month of November.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u75	Dear colleague, the report of the International Review Board (IRB) is still being drafted. The current conclusions remain preliminary until the submission of the final report by the BRI. It is the policy of the FANC not to disseminate preliminary results. The BRI report will not be self-supporting, i.e. it will present evaluation findings of the analysis without re-explaining these analyses themselves. It is therefore not appropriate to release this report prior to the release of these analyses, i.e. prior to the release of Electrabel's Safety Case Report. Currently, the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) is continuing its assessment process. The NSA is still in the first stage, i.e. assessing the acceptability of the methodology proposed by Electrabel to justify the safety of the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. Once the NSA has finalized its assessment of the methodology, it will move on to the second phase, i.e. assess the results of the application of this methodology, which may be corrected following the first stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u76	Minister, what's going on? Experts from all over the world met. We're not going to mobilize them three times! How is it that a month and a half later, the conclusions are still not available. Are there any ongoing interactions, negotiations or possible round-trips with Electrabel or the Agency? It's not normal! I suppose you, too, expected it to be published a little faster. Why is this still being discussed? Do you have any additional information on the reasons? I hope that there is no pressure on the International Review Board to change its conclusions. It would be a heavy mortgage, but with what's happening at the federal agency right now, I don't believe in anything anymore. You need to be able to shed some light on us. On the other hand, I hear what you say about the publication, saying that it is not self-supporting and that it will be published later. I assume that "later" means at the end of the first step and not at the end of the next three, four or five steps. You confirm to me that this is a publication after the first stage. Could you tell me again, so that it appears in the report? You say that the second step will be to apply things. Do other reports still have to be made in this regard? An American company has been asked and the Scientific Council of the Federal Agency must deliver its opinion. Could you repeat these other steps that need to be followed, without giving any timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u77	Mr Nollet, it is always tricky to put pressure on the specialists, otherwise it will be understood later that "you put the pressure and you intervened in the process". So I leave the work of the specialists to the specialists. As for the various phases, I do not have the information here, but I will pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u78	Could you please clarify, for the report, that the publication will take place after the second stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u80	Mr President, Minister, on Friday, April 10, 2015, during an industrial gammagraphy operation carried out in the bunker of the company Magotteaux in Vaux-sous-Chèvremont, a source of Cobalt 60 of a high radioactivity remained trapped in the position of irradiation outside its armored container. The first attempts to place the source in a safe position in its container failed. The use of the National Defence Demining Robot was necessary to limit the exposure of stakeholders. There appears to have been no serious impact on the staff member. Minister, what are the causes of this incident? What measures have been taken to avoid such incidents in the future? What lessons do you learn from this incident that led to the mobilization of the army?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u81	Mr. Nollet, the cause of this incident was communicated by the AFCN on May 29th on its website in a message confirming level 1 on the INES scale: "Analysis determined the cause of the incident, namely a failure to connect the ejection sheaths used to bring the source to the place where it is to be used. As a result of this lack of connection, the source moved to the ground for a long distance. Dirty then accumulated in the automatic retraction system of the source, blocking the mechanism of re-entry of the source into its container." Following the incident, the following actions were undertaken: a modification of the equipment which makes it impossible to have a connection defect such as that encountered at Magotteaux; a modification of the administrative procedures to strengthen the control by the operators of the equipment used. From now on, the PSAN will consider the possibility of encountering this problem in pre-authorization risk analyses of this type of activity. I can also confirm that there was no danger to the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u82	Thank you for your answer. As you know, I observe every incident to see how the situation is managed. This is all the more so in view of the situation in which the AFCN is currently in.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u83	Mr President, Minister, AIB-Vinçotte International is active in the field of industrial radiography. When reading the passive dosimeter of a company operator, it was found that the dose recorded for the month of February led to a dose over 12 consecutive months equivalent to a little more than three times the legal limit. Oddly enough, it seems that the investigation conducted and further analyses did not determine the origin of this dose limit exceedance or confirm or deny that the operator received it. As a result, the occupational physician authorized the operator to continue its activities. However, given the dose potentially received by the operator, this incident was classified at level 2 of the INES scale. Minister, are the causes of the incident now known? While there is still doubt as to the impact of this incident on the doses received, why was the operator able to resume its activities? What steps have been taken to avoid such incidents in the future? What lessons do you learn (with the AFCN) from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u84	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the causes of this incident are still unknown. The worker concerned cannot explain why his dosimeter recorded such a dose exceedance. The dosimeter did indeed record a dose greater than three times the legal dose over twelve consecutive slippery months. But the worker reports that, to his knowledge, no technical incident occurred. Moreover, there is no evidence to contradict his statements. It is the responsibility of the approved work physician to assess the impact of this dose attributed to the operator knowing that the operator may not have actually received it. Indeed, the possibility exists that its dosimeter has been forgotten next to a source. In addition to the 20 mSv limit over twelve consecutive slippery months, the occupational physician has also relied on the fact that a professionally exposed worker cannot, from a medical point of view, receive a dose greater than 100 over five years. The operator concerned has not exceeded the latter limit. The doctor has therefore decided to allow him to continue his professional activities by applying stricter dose constraints and appropriate dosimetric monitoring, provided that the cumulative dose over five years remains below 100 (past and future). The event has no known technical origin. Therefore, the operator did not take any technical measures. On the other hand, the operator has again received instructions for his own radiation protection and the management of his dosimeter. The information and training of workers are certainly human factors linked to this event. It is therefore necessary for the operator to follow up on it at all times. In the course of its inspections, the AFCN is also attentive to these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u85	Minister, I am surprised to learn that the cause is still unknown. I don't know if any studies are still under way to try and find out what the cause is. [[Minister's assessment]] The management of the aftermath of the incident appeals to me. I'm dubious. Doubt should guide us. If the risks are assumed and the limit is exceeded, the worker should be removed. I have the impression that the evidence of the charge is reversed. With regard to nuclear security, that is not ideal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u86	Minister, on May 7, 2015, as part of a study, some security of access to the cyclotron room at Erasmus Hospital was disabled and a worker entered the cyclotron room during this period. Fortunately, there was no serious impact on the staff member. So, Minister, what are the causes of this incident? What steps have been taken to avoid such incidents in the future? What lessons do you learn from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u87	Mr Nollet, in order to conduct an experiment, safety devices for access to the cyclotron at the Erasmus hospital have been deactivated, allowing the cyclotron to start up while the door was open. A person from the uninformed service of the current experience entered the inactive cyclotron at that time, as appears to be attested by the worker's dosimeter, as the dose recorded for the period of April 29, 2015 to May 7, 2015 was similar to the dose normally received. The human factor is an important component of this incident. A reminder of the safety and radiation protection rules must be carried out within the establishment so that this kind of situation can no longer be repeated. Under no circumstances may the by-pass of safety systems be used in normal operating mode. This is indeed a precaution in the event of extreme urgency. This event will be taken into account in the AFCN inspection campaign for the control of safety devices currently underway in Class 2-1 establishments, including cyclotrons. Training and the reminder of rules are key actions promoting the safety culture of operators in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. In this case, of course, the dosimeter indicates that there is no problem. That's reassuring! What is less so is the fact that the information has not circulated well and that the rule has not been respected. So we use our by-pass as a measure of ease, while we need to be vigilant about it. I believe that the necessary measures are being taken with regard to this incident and I will therefore not go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 47, by Mr Demon: 4772 and 4775 by Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u90	Minister, I had the opportunity to address this issue during the committee discussion of your colleague's bill, Mrs Marghem, to extend the life of Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. On this occasion, you said: "As for the crash of an Airbus A380, there is an analysis for some types of aircraft: a Boeing, a F-16 and a sports plane. According to the AFCN, the analyses are representative for each type of aircraft. The crash of an Airbus A380 is comparable to the most serious case of a Boeing. That is why there are no new calculations." I would like to go back to this comparison, because it seems to me to be at least risky. I'll explain. Let's start with the F-16 and the Cessna-type sports plane. Even a child can realize that they have nothing comparable to an Airbus. Then let's go back to the type of aircraft considered during the stress tests. Unless it is wrong - if it is, you will deny me - it is a Boeing 767 launched at 150 m/s. Note that there are very few such aircraft based in Belgium. But let us focus on the fact that, to compare the Airbus A380 with a Boeing, we must take, not a Boeing 767, but a Boeing 747, similar to those that take off daily from Bierset. A higher speed must also be taken into account when impacting. For example, during the 11 September attacks, aircraft speed at the time of impact was not 150 m/s, but 260 m/s. Both the speed and mass of an Airbus 380 are more important than those of a Boeing 767 considered during stress tests. As the famous formula says: E = MC2. If the mass is doubled, the kinetic energy is also doubled. If the speed is doubled, the kinetic energy is multiplied by four. And I'm not talking about kerosene reserves that, on a large carrier, are impressive and able to cause even greater fires. We also know that steel is poorly heat resistant. The second enclosure of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants is made of steel, unlike other plants. To be very precise, the Airbus A380 have a take-off weight that can be around 550 tonnes, while their kerosene capacity can be around 350 000 litres. Mr Minister, which of the seven Belgian power stations are in a position to withstand the possible impact of an Airbus A380 aircraft that would crash at full speed at one of their hot spots? By nerve points, I mean the tank and the core of the reactor, but also the cooling facilities well needed in case of a problem. What, moreover, is precisely the situation of the older Doel 1 and 2 plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u91	Mr Nollet, you have already asked me several times in different forms this same question of the impact of a plane crash on a nuclear power plant. I am afraid, therefore, that my answer will consist only of repetitions. The possibility of a fall in aircraft was taken into account at the time of the design of the Belgian nuclear power plants and was also analysed as part of their periodic safety review. Following the attacks of 11 September 2001, a full reassessment of the risk of falling aircraft of terrorist origin was carried out for the Doel and Tihange reactors. In 2011-12, the operator re-analyzed the available aircraft fall studies as part of the stress testing program. There are analyses for certain types of aircraft: a Boeing, a F-16, and a sports plane. These analyses are representative for the types of aircraft encountered in Belgian airspace. The crash of an Airbus A380 is comparable to the most serious case of a Boeing. On the basis of the results of the stress tests, additional measures were taken at the sites of the Belgian nuclear power plants to increase the robustness of the installations in the face of a plane fall. Additional means of extinguishing have, for example, been installed at the sites to be able to quickly extinguish a kerosene fire following an aircraft fall. The results of this evaluation are reflected in Electrabel's reports on Manmade Events. These reports are composed of a public part and a technical part. The public part of the reports for the Doel and Tihange power stations was published on the AFCN website. The technical part has not been made public for safety reasons. This information was classified as secret in accordance with the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and clearances, certificates and security notices. Due to their classification, the requested information, including specific information on the impact of an Airbus A380 aircraft and study parameters such as mass and speed, cannot be provided since such a practice would run counter to an obligation of secrecy established by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u92	Minister, does this mean that the calculation on an A380 has been made but the results are secret?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u93	The conclusion was published, but the results of the calculation are secret.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u94	It is particular to see published results related to a Boeing 767, whose weight, speed and volume of kerosene are much smaller than those of an Airbus A380. You're saying these planes aren't representative of those flying here. I'm going to check the statistics and I'll show you that these types of aircraft are flying over our country regularly, and more often than the 767. You say the results are comparable. How can they be when the mass is doubled and the speed is doubled as well? This means that kinetic energy is multiplied by four times in this kind of situation! Moreover, the volume of kerosene is much larger as well. I don't understand how you can say it's comparable. I can understand – without accepting it – that you say it's secret. But don't say in the public part that this is comparable, while the impact is much more important. I'm beginning to understand why you don't want to publish this element, which has been calculated. The one who does the calculation, with the formula E = MC2, can very quickly realize that this is not comparable, contrary to what you say. I regret that this information is not accessible. I have the impression that we want, once again, to minimize the risks by using examples with Boeing 767s, which are not representative of reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u95	Mr President, Minister, at the meeting on 11 September 2009, the Scientific Council of the AFCN, which looked at the Long Term Operation Strategic Note of the Belgian nuclear power plants, recommended that a similar approach be developed for older nuclear installations, including the IRE de Fleurus. Minister, what happened to this specific recommendation? What follow-up was given for the Fleurus site? What is the long-term management of the IRE site? Is there a clear framework? What are the next deadlines for this? In short, could you provide an update on this topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u96	Mr Nollet, there are two parts to the answer to this question. The first part of the answer can be considered general and applicable to all Class 1 establishments. Indeed, beyond the specific case of the IRE, long-term safety management for all Class 1 facilities is a global issue for which the AFCN has made significant efforts in recent years. At the level of the regulatory framework, several initiatives have been taken to ensure that the issue of long-term management of plant safety is adequately addressed. At the end of 2009, AFCN amended the operating authorizations for individual Class 1 facilities to require operators to perform periodic security reviews using a methodology developed in an AFCN note, which is the overall transposition of the AEA Safety Standards SSG-25. The Safety Standards states that the 10-year revisions must address certain specific safety-related aspects. These various aspects are listed in a list of 14 safety factors. Number 1 deals with the design plant. It ensures every 10 years that the facilities are as safe as when they are put into service and still meet current safety standards. The number 4, age, makes it possible to ensure that all the effects of aging facilities, and in particular equipment important for safety, are properly managed. On November 30, 2011, the Royal Order prescribing the safety of Class 1 nuclear facilities was issued. Among the many requirements of this Order that enhance the level of safety of installations, Article 10 deals strictly with the ageing of installations. This regulatory requirement obliges different operators to develop an approach to prevent deterioration of facilities or equipment important for safety due to the effects of ageing. The transitional provisions of this Royal Decree provide for the implementation of Article 10 from 1 January 2016. Based on the regulatory framework set out above, the AFCN therefore ensures long-term safety management in all Class 1 facilities through the processing of periodic security reviews and, from 1 January 2016, through specific inspections that will ensure that the requirements of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 are met. The IRE is, of course, one of the establishments subject to these requirements. The next periodic security review for the IRE is scheduled for 2018 and preparatory work will begin in 2016. The second part of the answer relates more specifically to the IRE. Directly following the 2008 incident, short-, medium- and long-term action plans were imposed on the IRE and significantly increased the level of facility safety. The long-term action plan is still being implemented. These action plans have led in particular to the complete renovation of the IRE production cells with the evolution of the design of the installations and the strengthening of equipment important for safety, among others in terms of performance and reliability. At the end of 2014, an international audit was conducted. It led to the development of an action plan, which will improve the functioning of certain IRE processes, in particular maintenance management processes, which play a very important role in the management of aging and the long-term operation of facilities. In addition to this, AFCN and Bel V, through inspection and control programmes or some ad hoc initiatives, continue to carry out a very important follow-up at the Fleurus site, in particular the IRE.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will analyse in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u98	Mr President, Minister, on April 14, you answered one of my questions about the future of SHAPE fire service workers as part of the "NATO Host Nation Support" issue. In this reply, you confirmed to me that the firefighters assigned to this service, on the one hand, remained employed in SHAPE with reimbursement of their wages to the latter by the Internal FPS, "until the restructuring of the Belgian fire services"; and, on the other hand, could be made available to the Hainaut-Centre fire zone on the basis of the Law of 24 July 1987 for a period of five years before being taken up in that zone. First of all, I wanted to hear from you about a budget amendment. On reading the adjustment, I understood that an amount of EUR 1.6 million had been released in the Department of Defense in connection with this fire department. Can you confirm to me that this is a transfer of the Defence budget to that of the Interior in order to assume your obligations to NATO? In this case, how do you plan to complete this budget to cover all of your obligations, which were estimated at €2.5 million when the agreement was signed? Unless this amount is no longer correct, but in this case I would be interested to know what led to its amendment. Finally, you also indicated that information sessions for the staff involved in the provision of information should be held shortly before concluding the availability agreements. Can you tell me where we are in this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u99	Mr Thiébaut, on 3 April 2015, the Council of Ministers approved the notifications of budgetary control. A budget of €1,650,000 has been allocated to the Internal FPS, Civil Security Directorate, for the financing of the SHAPE fire service by Belgium. No budget has been provided for this matter in the Defence budget. There is therefore no transfer of money from the Defense to the Interior FPS. It is true that the staff cost for 2015 was estimated at €2.5 million. However, it is anticipated that SHAPE fire service personnel will be made available to the Hainaut-Centre emergency zone before being taken over in the area. However, the Hainaut-Centre relief zone already receives a basic allocation and a supplementary allocation from the Federal State. At my forthcoming meeting with the President of the Hainaut-Centre relief zone, a solution will have to be found to this budgetary problem. The SHAPE Fire Service information sessions will only be held when there are clear agreements between the various stakeholders in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u100	Minister, I am not very reassured by your comments. I'm vice president of this area and I know the state of finance. I am concerned about the possible underfunding of this transfer of firefighters from SHAPE. Do you have an estimate of this funding or do you need to discuss it with the Area President?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u101	This is part of the discussion planned. For the time being, I do not have an estimate of this funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u102	Mr Minister, according to the Divisional Commissioner of the South Luxembourg Police Area, crime in this area is on the decline. In 2014, 2,150 wrongdoings were recorded for the police area consisting of the municipalities of Aubange, Messancy, Saint-Léger and Musson, compared to 2,341 in 2013. This assessment, while gratifying, should not obscure the blatant lack of human resources in this police area. Very concretely, the area has only 70 police officers (6 officers, 10 principal inspectors, 50 inspectors and 4 officers). As a result, 20 officers and inspectors would be missing from the 90-person framework. Two years ago, the South-Luxembourg police area had already had a deficit of about ten police officers. Your predecessor had promised change. I quote Mrs Milquet: "In the framework of the new agreement with France, we first supported the municipalities of West-Vlaanderen and part of the early Hainaut which were confronted with problems of theft, burglary to the ship car, etc. This was the highest priority. We have made it possible to allocate a specific amount to fourteen police areas (...) I wish I could continue the effort. I also told the representatives of South Luxembourg that the second part was intended for them. The whole thing is that this can be done within the framework of the 2013 budget, or even 2014. Everything will depend on the complementary efforts that we will still have to make." Therefore, can you please let me know whether the South-Luxembourg police zone will finally be recognised as a priority, as is the case with other border areas? Will additional police officers be recruited from this area? If so, when? Will the allocation to encourage recruitment policy in police areas and set at €12,243.15 in 2014 for the Aubange area be adjusted accordingly for 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u103	Mrs Caprasse, all your questions relate to the provision to encourage recruitment policy in police areas. When granting these allocations for 2014, the Council of Ministers decided that "in the case of 2015, in the event of a renewal of this allocation, its distribution will be further objectified taking into account the overall federal funding of the police areas". This is notified in point 10 of the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. This issue will be reviewed with other government partners as early as September of this year. The situation in the South-Luxembourg police zone will be examined at the same time as the other police zones, according to the same criteria. The only authorities legally competent to recruit police officers in this area are the College and the Police Council. Therefore, I would ask you to address this second question to this last instance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u104	Thank you, Minister. They need to be able to hire police officers. This will therefore be a question to rest a little later. I am not really satisfied with the answer given.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u105	Minister, anti-Semitism remains a reality in Belgium. We've had proof of that again recently. Indeed, during the month of May, the Belgian League against Anti-Semitism (LBCA) noted a new act of anti-Semitism, according to which a family received a letter calling them "Jewish dirty", accompanied by a swastika, to the point that the family planned to leave Belgium. On 29 May, in Molenbeek, a peacekeeper had to be laid off for posting violent anti-Semitic statements on Facebook. It has yet to be seen that the week following the commemorations of the attack on the Jewish Museum, eight denunciations of anti-Semitism were reported to the Belgian League against Anti-Semitism. As the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities points out, 2014 saw a marked increase in reports of anti-Semitism and/or negationism recorded in the centre (130 facts). This is an increase of more than 50% over the previous year. These figures are probably below the scale of the phenomenon, as many victims do not dare to file a complaint. I understand you received the representatives of the LBCA on 27 May. During this meeting, this association expressed its concern about the resurgence of anti-Semitism and certainly asked you to take further action. I would remind you that the Prime Minister, in a speech in plenary, said that he wanted to apply zero tolerance to such acts, a will that we share and that we can only support. As a result, Minister, can you let me know how the fight against anti-Semitism on the Internet, which is probably one of the most insidious and perverse forms of anti-Semitism, becomes a reality? How is it amplified? What role does Computer Crime Unit play? What are the specific means at its disposal? In France, for example, an Internet-based anti-hate brigade has been set up to create cyber-patrouilles to track down racist or anti-Semitic statements. This may be a good precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u106	Mr Maingain, I would like to stress that I am very sensitive to the problem of anti-Semitism. As far as your questions are concerned, anti-Semitism offences are punishable by the Act of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts inspired by racism or xenophobia. In 2013, a joint circular COL 13 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General was drafted on the subject. As a result, the chiefs of local and federal police had to appoint a reference police officer. For racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic statements in particular, the principle is that citizens who are victims or witnesses should report them to the police. The latter will then draw up a report which they will forward to the competent prosecutors' offices for the prosecution of the authors. The illegal content will also be removed, which is easy if it is located in Belgium but often difficult when it is hosted on servers abroad. It may also happen that police officers in the performance of their duties become aware of such acts of anti-Semitism and then ex officio draw up a report. The fact that the offence is committed via the Internet is no exception. Anti-Semitic content on the Internet is therefore not actively sought by the police but is dealt with following the filing of a complaint. Let me turn to your second and third questions. It is a false idea to think that every offence more or less related to the digital world, to a computer and/or to the Internet is dealt with by the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. Anti-Semitism, even on the Internet, can be detected and investigated by every police officer in the country's 194 police areas, as well as by any other police officer in the front line services of the Federal Police, such as the Railway Police, the Aviation Police and the Road Police. In some cases, however, Computer Crime Units may provide support to local police services or other deconcentrated federal police branch services to preserve the digital track as technical-legal evidence. You already know that this government is investing in the CCUs on a material and personal level. The smooth functioning of the CCUs in their autonomous competences in the field of cyber-criminality as well as in their functions of forensic support for other phenomena is the key to the proper functioning of the judicial units. The federal police force is currently being optimized. It's too early to tell you more. However, if the federal police decide to organise a search section on the Internet, it seems clear that, given the limited number of police officers with expertise in this area, they will not only deal with anti-Semitism but all the criminal phenomena that can be found on the Internet. It is not because, in some cases, anti-Semitism is linked to the Internet or websites, that this concerns only the field of the Computer Crime Unit. This concerns everyone. The Computer Crime Unit is here to support a more in-depth investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u107	Let's do the part. All police areas, all units of the federal police can find, by going to a website, an offence relating to racism, anti-Semitism or any other kind. This is a very specific struggle. We know very well what is at stake in the fight against anti-Semitism. To say that any police area can make observations means that there will be no coordination. Let's imagine that every police area, every morning, spend an hour going on the Internet to see all the offences committed in order to detect possible acts of anti-Semitism. From Arlon to Ostend, from Eupen to Mouscron, this exercise will take place without coordination. It doesn't make sense. While a complainant, residing in a police area, will make this offence known, what the Jewish community and its representative institutions are demanding is that there be a coordinated proactive approach at the level of the police services. You are telling me that this is not the sole or principal role of the Computer Crime Unit because it is in support of other federal police investigation services or zonal police. I mean, but in the future, we will have to create a specialized unit that coordinates this, just as there are specialized units that coordinate the fight against certain types of crime. It is not said: "Tomorrow, the fight against certain forms of great banditry". Of course, all police areas have to detect offences if they take place in the territory of their area. But the federal police have more proactive cells that deal with the fight against certain types of crime. In short, that is what we are asking you to put in place. It is a specialized unit that would work specifically for coordination and eventually provide training. Of course, all police areas have been given the task of establishing a reference official to record complaints of anti-Semitism offences. However, it must be recognized that there are sometimes training and awareness problems in police areas. Let's be honest, in all police areas, it's not considered a priority! But above all, it would be a task of coordination by a specialized support unit, which does not require large numbers of staff but, above all, a particular motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u108	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have recently been concerned with the Regional School of Public Administration, the training of peacekeepers, officers who observe incivilities or violations of the general police regulations. I received a response that surprised me somewhat as it suggested that there were training problems for certain categories of peacekeepers. To the best of my knowledge, by a letter dated 4 May, you assured this school that the implementing decree on the new conditions for the training of peacekeepers following the amendment of the law of 15 May 2007 by the law of 13 January 2014 was under examination in your office. Minister, in order to allow us to hope to train our peacekeepers in a timely manner so as not to have an effective vacuum in a number of communes, can you tell me when this enforcement order will be issued? Approved schools and structures can no longer be forced to stop the organisation of sessions. What will be the main modalities? Have the associations representing the cities and municipalities been invited to give their opinion on your draft decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u109	Mr Maingain, the implementing order you are referring to is being examined by my office. The terms of the decree are by no means different from those set out in the Royal Decree of 15 May 2009. The main purpose of the amendments is to clarify the minimum number of hours required for new subjects that have been added to the Act. This includes conflict management, editorial skills and fitness courses. The new implementing decree was presented during the previous legislature to the Commission for the Training of Peacekeepers, which includes representatives of the organizers of the training, representatives of the officials responsible for leading a service of peacekeepers and a representative of the Consultative Council of Mayors. In view of the new arrangements, namely the number of hours for the new courses imposed by law, there has therefore been no consultation of associations representing cities and municipalities. However, the main actors involved in these changes, the organizers of the trainings and the coordinators of the peacekeepers were well consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u110	Minister, within what time can we expect your order? You said it was presented under the previous legislature. A vacuum has been in place for almost two years. Do we have any hope?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u111	As I said, the order is being reviewed by my firm. Secondly, we will be able to continue the administrative process, including the request for advice from the Finance Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u112	Let us hope that this will be successful for the September school year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u113	Yeah, I think it's the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u114	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u115	Mrs Matz would come later and her two questions. 4822 and No. 4823 will then be treated as such. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 4837 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 4882 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ducarme's 4923 was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u116	Mr President, Minister, we have co-signed the 1954 Convention on the status of stateless persons, which means that our country also grants the status of stateless persons. That award is also made to us through the court. We have many problems with the stateless, such as education, health care or the right to open a bank account. It is therefore important that they can also be recognised as stateless persons in our country. The government agreement stated that the procedure would be improved. Your colleague, Minister Geens, is competent in this matter and I will therefore question him on that matter. My question to you is actually a question of numbers. Minister, can you give an overview of the number of people currently registered in all population and foreign registers? Do you see that number rising, falling or staying status quo over the past five years? Can you provide the main regions of the country of origin or the main regions of the country of origin? I can't talk about nationality because those involved are stateless. A person may come from a particular country, but he may not be Stateless, because he or she does not have the nationality of that country. I would like to have an answer to these questions, as far as you have that information, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u117	Mrs Lanjri, there is talk in the population registers of patriotism. That's even nicer than being out of state. There are currently 631 files with patriotic nationality. In 2010, it was 31, in 2011 30, in 2012 19, in 2013 25 and in 2014 60. On 7 June 2015, there are already 34. The least one can say is that the number is increasing. I cannot tell you what the countries of origin are, because I do not have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u118	Mr. Minister, we will wait and see. I see that the figures have remained the same over the years. For the first half of this year it may be a lot, but it may fall back in the second half of the year. Or do you see an increase there?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u119	You should take a look at 2014. In the other years it varies between 25 and 30 and then in 2014 there are about sixty and halfway this year there are already 34.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u120	You're right. So we will certainly get higher. It is indeed an increase compared to 2014. We will wait and see what the rest of the year will bring, but it will not stop completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u121	Mr. President, thank you for your patience. I was in the Infrastructure Committee where I was even able to table my motion in time. My question therefore relates to the training of new police officers. Since October 2014, no police training has been organised, since December has even been cancelled. However, since those many months, the selection tests have continued to take place. The number of future candidates has therefore increased considerably. We are reminded that the website infopol.be was updated on Wednesday, June 3rd and many candidates who passed the selection tests and received their certificate of fitness were able to register for the next training courses. Is the order of receipt of the certificate of achievement important for enrolment in the next training organized? Is there a pre-classification carried out by the administration so that the first to receive their certification are the first to return to the police school? As far as the next training itself is concerned, when will it take place and take place in all training centres? If not, in which centres will they take place? Finally, is the commitment at the level of the federal police or the local police? Do you have more information to communicate to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u122	Mrs Matz, in accordance with Article 4.1.30, paragraph 2 of the Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 on the legal position of police personnel, the winners of the police inspector selection tests are inserted into a recruitment reserve in order of the date of entry in the selection tests. In case of equal date, priority shall be given to the oldest candidate. This rule is also reflected in the basic framework selection rules published on jobpo.be and not on infopol.be, as you quote in your question. In principle, training will begin in October 2015. A second set of training courses is planned for December 2015, but at present two recent ministerial circulars dated 12 May 2015 are actually applicable. This is first of all circular No. 644 "Information on the methodology for the calculation of KPI risk monitoring". The second circular bears No. 645 "Information on the Federal Monitoring of the Risk of Overexpenditures of Personnel Appropriations in 2015 and 2016 and the Personnel Envelopes 2015 and 2016", published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 May 2015. The monitoring measures included in the circulars are also applicable to federal police personnel credits. The purpose of the monitoring is, in particular, to assess the risks of over-expenditure of appropriations. Budgetary monitoring is never an easy exercise or a simple mission. We must respect our commitments to Europe. We must devote both resources for recovery and, at the same time, resources for our security, justice, police and intelligence services. On the basis of the principles set out in these two circulars, I will be able, with a favourable opinion from the Inspector of Finance and as Minister of the Interior, to set recruitment targets for the federal police. As soon as we have this opinion, everything will go very quickly. The electronic information form currently available to candidates is intended to capture the wishes of the winners, which will enable the police to invite them to the training as soon as possible, once the ministerial decision has been taken. In principle, each police academy will host aspirants inspectors in October and December 2015. This distribution takes into account both their wishes, the budgetary aspect and the quotas to be determined by the ministerial decision. With regard to your last question, the quotas referred to in question 2 correspond, in principle, to the needs of both federal police entities and local police forces. These various entities may also use other measures designed to enable them to meet a specific need. For example, in early June, the local police force in Antwerp engaged 44 aspirants in own funds police inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u123	Minister, at this stage, you cannot give us a quota of aspiring candidates for October/December 2015. Thank you because there were answers to the questions. There are many people waiting for news. It is time that these trainings could be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u124	Minister, you're going to think I'm a monomaniac, but when I hold a bone, I don't like to let it go. In the plenary session of the Chamber on 30 April, we discussed an opinion communicated by the police on whether or not to maintain domestic and domestic violence in the National Security Plan. You told me that this was an important issue for you, but that you had to go through a consultation phase with the federated entities and that you had to wait for the outcome of these consultations before you could say whether or not it was a priority of the Security Plan. A month and a half has passed. This issue is always a priority for us. Have you made any progress in this regard? Do you also consider that the initiative taken by the police was unfortunate, since it felt that it should no longer be a priority issue? Following the consultations you were waiting for, do you feel that it should continue to be included in the National Security Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u125	Mrs Matz, before answering your questions, I think it is necessary to clarify the framework for the full safety note and the National Security Plan. In our quest for a safer, more user-friendly and more democratic society in which everyone's fundamental freedoms, rights and obligations are respected, the federal government is committed to establishing a comprehensive security framework note in consultation with federated entities, local governments, justice and all other actors in the security chain. By "security chain", we mean structural and situational prevention, the reaction of the administrative and judicial bodies responsible for maintaining law and order and monitoring. It forms the basis of the next National Security Plan or the Police Plan, which will define both priorities for the federal police and those for the integrated police. The Minister of Justice and I are the main initiators of this project. We both said that we wanted to approve these political documents before the end of the year. In accordance with the government agreement, we will submit the comprehensive security framework note to the National Security Council. In accordance with the provisions of the Cooperation Agreement on Criminal Policy and Security Policy concluded on 7 January 2014 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions, the Interdepartmental Conference on Security Maintenance and Management Policy will be convened for this purpose. It was in this context that on 29 May a group of "full security framework note" experts met to prepare the work for validation of the two plans, which were presented at the first meeting. On the basis of an analysis of the federal agreement, three aspects were discussed: the framework, the scope and the objectives; the working method, the route and the timing; and a provisional cluster of the phenomena of insecurity. I now come to your questions. As this was a first meeting to launch the project, the members of the expert group shared their thoughts and gave their first opinions on the three points mentioned above. In general, all participants stressed the importance of such a framework note and welcomed the initiative taken in this regard. With regard to the course to be followed and the timing to be followed, critical remarks – some positive, others less – were made. Some felt that the time needed to complete all this work by the end of 2015 was very critical. Others, on the other hand, confirmed the need for strict management and tight timing. With regard to the security phenomenon, everyone agreed to use, in addition to the current national police security image of the federal police and the various governance agreements, other sources to define priority phenomena. In June, the members of the expert group will be able to transmit their new comments and/or make new proposals. The aim is to organize a next meeting with the group of experts in early July, after which the draft will be placed on the agenda of both the National Security Council and the Inter-Ministerial Conference. To answer your second question, I cannot and do not wish to mention the priorities. We have agreed on a working method for both our full security framework and the next National Security Plan. I therefore do not wish to anticipate the conclusions that will result from this. What I can tell you is that we want to receive the widest possible support when setting priorities, but we do not have a plan with countless priorities. Not all themes can be considered as such. I am therefore referring here to my previous oral answer. To answer your last question, I could give the same answer as to the previous question. However, I wish to be clear, given that this issue is included in the federal agreement and that my colleague the Minister of Justice and I have understood through various channels (authorities, actors on the ground) that an integral and integrated approach is absolutely necessary to stem this phenomenon of domestic violence. I can assure you that domestic violence will be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u126	Minister, would I dare to describe your words as "a Jesuit response"? I understand that the fight against domestic violence is a priority. For me, it means it's part of the National Security Pan. You're gonna tell me you can't answer me. It's kind of the snake that bites its tail! In any case, I understood, between the lines, that there was a wind of optimism in this committee tonight. Of course, the consultations are under way. But you can make a number of recommendations in this regard. If the point is set out in the government agreement and if we gather all the pieces of the puzzle that you have just given us, I have the impression that the fight against domestic violence will be in high place in the framework note or in the National Security Plan, which I welcome. We will wait a few more weeks for the consultations and discussions on this subject to be finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u127	Mrs Matz, as a representative of a humanist party, you know that the Jesuits have contributed greatly to humanism in our country and throughout the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u128	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, this last question from the committee is my first for you. There will be no metaphysical reflections as in the previous question. I'm a mayor, president of a police zone. We are going to talk in a very practical, very direct way. Several police areas faced a problem following the submission of requests for structural detachment several months ago, notably at the Information and Communication Centre (ICC) in Mons. A few weeks later, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police agreed in principle to these requests. However, because of a significant budgetary impact, she informed us that these requests must also be submitted to the Inspector of Finance, the Minister of Budget and the Standing Committee on Local Police. And since then, total silence on the part of these different bodies. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the overall time frame for processing applications for structural secondment? Is such a long waiting period specific to certain cases or is it the norm? What are the formal procedures for approving these applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u129	Mr. Chair, Mr. Devin, in response to your first question, the processing period for applications varies, but for CICs, overall, is a few weeks. As the Commissioner General pointed out, because of the budgetary impact, my fellow ministers who manage the Budget and the Public Service issued a circular on December 18, 2014, which required a total cessation of commitments. Exceptions were, as an exception, possible, but requests for exemption were to be submitted to the Inspectorate of Finance and then to the Ministers who manage the Budget and the Public Service. As a result, commitments via structural detachments were no longer possible in the near future. By the publication of two new circulars of 12 May 2015 by the ministers who manage the Budget and the Public Service, commitments are no longer prohibited, but every human resource decision that is not budgetaryly neutral must be submitted for agreement to the Inspectorate of Finance, which must verify whether the expenditure is integrable into the budget. In the event of a negative opinion, there is an opportunity to refer the matter to the Minister of Budget. In practical terms, for the CICs, it is therefore necessary to consider whether a commitment via structural detachment is budgetaryly neutral or not and whether, where appropriate, the procedure via the Finance Inspectorate and, if necessary, a referral to the Minister for the Budget is necessary. As a result, the waiting period for CIC Hainaut was exceptional as a result of the recently relaxed budget restrictions. With respect to your second question, the rule is that staff members to be seconded via a structural detachment to an ICC are recruited through a selection procedure within the province. Then the name of the winner is communicated to the central level of the Federal Police for inclusion in the budget and drafting of a secondment agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u130	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your precise answer. Indeed, the deadline was exceptional. I think we need to be very clear about the future. It is not normal for local police areas to eventually pay for seconded personnel at the federal police level. I dare hope, and I believe that this is your goal, that this episode will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-06-10-54-commissie-ic192x.u131	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Éric Thiébaut, No 4944. Question No 49, by Mr Willy Demeyer and No 4970 Mr Raf Terwingen. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
