ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an index jump will seriously affect the purchasing power of the workers, and certainly of the supporters. It will cost them hundreds of euros in the future. Above all, there is an index jump, and we are all aware of this, especially unfair, especially the index jump proposed by the government. On the one hand, the government does not block wages, on the other hand, it does not block rents and public transport prices, among other things. The current government followed by another government, says that invoices may rise, but wages must be blocked! However, an index jump is not necessary at all. If we want to reduce the burden on wages, we can also finance it with an added value tax, by asking for a contribution from the big assets. However, this government clearly refuses to do so. Prime Minister, I have only one big question. Why does this government insist on the index jump, which is unfair and which undermines citizens' purchasing power, when there is an economic crisis and it must actually ensure that the economy is running and that citizens have sufficient purchasing power? Why do you keep protecting the great assets? Almost every party in the majority has always argued during the elections that it is not wages that are the problem, but wage costs. What are you doing? You are affecting wages, but you are doing much less about wage costs. Mr Prime Minister, why are we not funding the added value tax? In addition, what about the tax shift? What's the timing of that? What is the timing of our budgetary control? Why didn't you wait for that to enter the index jump?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, while even within the employer's bench, there are voices to say that the index jump on wages was not a fully economically justified measure, a fortiori according to the procedures you have decided, your government has made this choice, with consequences that it does not control on the cost of living for employees, indexing or not of rents, indexing or not of other burdens on wages and incomes, including those who are either tenants or owners. I thought that from some of the press reports that your government had asked about the level of authority with regard to the indexation of rents. It is quite surprising that the very ones who negotiated a reform of the state, which was said to have disastrous consequences – which we can appreciate today! –, don't even know who assumes the competence! It's regional competence! My legal analysis has been done for a long time, but since the government has conducted legal studies, I would ask him if he would like to table the said studies with the presidency so that he can pass them on to parliamentarians and see what the arguments are for one or the other thesis. More fundamentally, since the government is seeking to know how it is still competent, I would say that it is competent to eventually limit the disastrous consequences of its decisions with regard to other types of charges, particularly for owners. In fact, quite logically, if the consequences of the index jump that employees will suffer for rents must be frozen, it must also be done for the owners. And now the government is competent! It is, for example, to freeze any increase in insurance premiums that may affect owners. It is in order to freeze the evolution of the ABEX index, which binds the construction sector and in particular for the maintenance costs which weigh on the owners and which cannot be passed on to the tenants. I therefore ask the government whether it will take measures in the area of its powers, inter alia to link the evolution of these prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u4	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, on Friday we learned that the government was confirming, by adopting it at first reading, the principle of an index jump. I have gone back to a few audiovisual archives that I will present here to colleagues. First of all, the current Foreign Minister who says with a small sign – he doesn't seem very convinced: "Yes, we will continue to defend wage indexation. It's time for common sense." Prime Minister, I also have a few videos in which you say, "That's very clear, we don't want to touch indexing." You have just heard the former President of the MR, the current Prime Minister. And the head of the list for Hainaut, the current president of the MR, said, "In no case will we touch the index." Prime Minister, at the time, you were right. You didn't have to touch the index finger. That is the decision you made with the members of the government. You will certainly tell us about some elements of compensation but, morally for the workers and in relation to the income of the beneficiaries, what you are doing is contrary to the interests of your economy and contrary to the objective of social justice. I could ask you, like Mr. Maingain, if there's going to be a rent freeze, if it's federal jurisdiction. But I have only one question. Prime Minister, will you honour your pre-election index commitments and interrupt the legislative process on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the few questions addressed to me. First of all, the government validated a bill on index jump at first reading last week. We believe that the competitiveness of enterprises is extremely important, not only for the sake of numbers and statistics, but also for protecting existing jobs and trying to create them. Economic science is, of course, not an exact science, but I note that the independent study services that have looked at this issue have felt that, in the coming years, new jobs could result from such a measure – in addition to those that, hopefully, should be created through a return to economic growth. Secondly, Mr Gilkinet, we do not remove the principle of wage indexation, but we decide, once only, to freeze it. This will be done by integrating compensations that will take effect before wage non-indexation takes place. As of this year, important compensations for those who work and those who do not work are decided. The measure relating to professional costs has an immediate effect from the first month onwards. On 15 January 2015, this had an effect of 97% of workers. At the same time, we have taken important decisions on the welfare envelope: 100 percent of the wealth envelope is distributed in the context of social dialogue. We fully respect the decision of the social partners in this respect. It is therefore clear that there is a signal for citizens' purchasing power in 2015. I fully respect those Members in the assembly who have different views on this matter, but the government is committed to competitiveness and support for job creation, which is crucial for the future. Second point: the indexation of rents. The sixth reform of the State has led to the transfer of powers which open up legal questions. I am very modest and humble in this respect. Today we are confronted with legal opinions which go in different ways on the question of who is competent, in whole or in part, for the indexation of rents. As I announced last Friday, we are working within the government on a legal basis to see who is responsible for the issue of non-indexing rents. As far as the tax shift is concerned, the situation is very clear. The government must make a number of important decisions between now and the summer. First of all, there is budgetary control. We are waiting for the figures from the Monitoring Committee. That is certainly not exceptional. We expect the figures from the Monitoring Committee during the month of March. On the basis of these figures, we will start a debate on budgetary control. We shall then consider when a debate on the tax shift can be launched in the government. The most important thing, however, is that we have taken the commitment to see the first effects of a tax shift in 2015 and 2016. This means that both in substance and on schedule, the government knows where it is going and will maintain the course in which it has committed itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u6	Mr Prime Minister, as always, you do not really answer the questions and, as always, there are things that are not being proposed quite correctly. You say first that the index jump is there for the competitiveness and creation of jobs. Not only the opposition, but also the National Bank, many other bodies and economists have shown so many times that funding a tax on capital gains will create more jobs if you want to reduce wage costs. More jobs, Prime Minister! Then why are you going through the index jump? You won't answer that. Secondly, you say that you are providing compensation. That's right. There's part of a compensation. If we calculate everything, with all the expenditure that goes up, the compensation does not outweigh that. Moreover, the compensation does not apply to pensioners. You forget it every time. Thirdly, you are talking about the 100 % prosperity envelope. Prime Minister, the welfare envelope was intended at the top of the index. Let me say it again: at the top of the index! You run an index jump and then speak of 100 % prosperity envelope. That's not right at all. By the way, you keep talking about a tax shift. We have heard that since the first day of your government, but no proposal has yet been tabled in Parliament. The index jump is already there, however, before we have had the opportunity to discuss the tax shift and budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u7	Mr President, first of all I would like to say to Mr Gilkinet that if he wants his cell phone to be loaded with very many accounts of the variations of Charles Michel or his party on a number of commitments, I fear that he will face a problem of the memory capacity of that cell phone! We could do the exercise almost every week. That said, more fundamentally, it is extraordinary to hear the one who negotiated the reform of the State say that the government must work hard at the legal level to determine the level of competence that will have to decide whether or not to index rents. One might wonder what you knew during the negotiations. Obviously, you have not understood the consequences – we are beginning to discover in many areas – of the transfer of skills. On the other hand, you do not answer an essential question. Where you are competent, are you going to take the accompanying measures of the iniquitous measure you have taken? Even on this question, you do not have the courage to answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u8	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you said that under no circumstances would you touch the index to indicate, then, that an index jump would be made only once. We are faced here with a political leader and a party who "managed" their word. To say that this index jump will only happen once again is to ignore or pretend to ignore that such a jump is paid for all life, whether you are a worker or a beneficiary. The measures you take will hurt the most fragile and will be economically ineffective. On the other hand, you are talking about compensation, but the balance is negative for all workers. On the eve of International Women's Day, I am thinking of part-time workers. I am also thinking of the elderly unemployed, the thousands of people who will be excluded from integration benefits, following the measures taken by you and Mr Di Rupo. Prime Minister, I will give you the rest of my time so that we can listen to your commitments again. You can still change your mind. You can't touch the index; it's antisocial and ineffective.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u9	Prime Minister, you are aware that a mayor MR has spent a short time in prison these days and that the MR has demanded and obtained his resignation. At the same time, other cases in other regions and in other parties have shook the news. What can we say? At a minimum, we are facing an important ethical problem! The time has therefore come to take measures in terms of transparency. I guess no one in this assembly has anything to hide. In France, it was following the Cahuzac case that transparency was decreed through the publication of the assets of political agents. The PTB has made a bill that organizes this transparency. It amends the current law in that it provides that the assets no longer fall within a closed envelope: publication of the amounts, the balance of the accounts, the total value on the net. I assume that everyone in this chamber has nothing to hide and will agree to vote on this bill. So, Prime Minister, do you intend to take steps to ensure more ethics in the Belgian political world? What are they? Is this proposal one of the measures you would consider taking?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that fortunately there are rules, rules of law, a penal code and principles of ethics in political parties and in parliamentary assemblies. You say that the sixth reform of the state has encouraged parliaments to set up ethics commissions. I would like to inform you, since you seem to be unaware of this, that the Chamber is working on the composition of the Ethics Commission. The government must respect its role, that is to say, to enable Parliament to organise its own ethics and its own capacity to monitor compliance with these ethical and ethical rules. This is a first point I wanted to highlight. Secondly, there is a Penal Code that punishes corruption and conflicts of interest when they pose difficulties. Of course, as head of government, I consider it necessary to respect the separation of powers, to allow judicial actors and magistrates to do their work in a peaceful manner. I do not intend to interfere with the work of the judicial authorities because I fully respect the separation of powers. Finally, I conclude, on behalf of the government. We do not find it difficult for Parliament to move towards greater transparency and the ability to demonstrate that politicians respect the duty of exemplaryness that is incumbent upon all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u11	Prime Minister, I am a little disappointed with your answer. Lists of warrants are already published on the Internet, on the proposal of the then Prime Minister. This was not a parliamentary initiative. I also see that you are falling behind justice. But beyond respect for justice, there is also an ethical problem that adds to the rule of law. Finally, I note that we are going to make arrangements between ourselves in Parliament and ensure that, above all, it does not come out of this chamber! Nothing public, nothing accessible to citizens! I will apply what I say: transparency of assets, since I have been asked to do so in particular on the MR benches. You're going to be happy, since I'm going to reveal my heritage to you. Real estate: none; on my savings account: €15,499; equity or equity: none; movable assets: a fifteen-year-old Peugeot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u12	Mr Van Hees, you are exceeding your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u13	Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u14	Mr President, I would like to take the floor in connection with the arrangements for work and the debate on the social agreement and the bridge-retirement. We have received two versions of the question. In the first question, questions from Members of the Open Vld and CD&V were included. I note, in the second version, that they have withdrawn their questions. That is their right, and it seems that they do not want to take a decision on this issue. What I do find annoying, therefore, is that the same Members of Parliament are making tough statements in the hallway next door to Villa Politica and on the news sites about the same debates. Mr President of the Chamber, I do not think that is a serious way of working. This Parliament deserves better. The older workers, Mr Vuye, deserve better. I do not understand why you, as the largest group, do not have the courage to debate such a problem in this House. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u15	Say it there! Say it in the chair. Join us in the debate. Mr President, I do not think that is a serious way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u16	Mr Calvo, we take note of your comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I have already questioned you several times about the availability of bridge pensioners. You should know that I am not doing that to bully you, but because a lot of people feel bullied by the measure you have taken. Last week you replied to me that it is up to the Group of Ten to find a solution to that problem. I am very surprised that the Group of Ten has done the same, and I am very pleased with that. The employers and the trade unions have reached an agreement together. Both partners have asked the government to respond quickly to the agreement and have also made it clear that the agreement is one and indivisible. However, I do not understand that this government, which always values social dialogue and has such respect for it, has decided to postpone the decision on this matter. Some of the statements made by other members of the government worry me. And, Minister, my concern is shared by a lot of people. Many people have been awake from this problem for months. Now that there is finally a solution on the table, it is up to the government to confess colour. Does this government take the social dialogue seriously, or is it just a laughing matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u18	Mr President, I had chosen to address my question to Mr Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister, who is, as we know, a central figure in this government, perhaps even, some say, the heart of the government. As you seem to have a heart, I hope you will agree to explain to me what I do not understand. In particular, I do not understand a procedural element. You said this government was going to change its method. "We decide, we act." "We're rotting, we're biting." Some even said it was going to be manly! To justify this being manly, we even evacuated the women from Kern. You never know that they impose a certain mode of reflection... What do we see? That on a whole series of files, we move forward, we realize that there are problems. There is even a majority party president, Mr Chastel, who reported receiving letters from discontented pre-pensioners. Then we figure maybe we'll change. My first question is the following. Prime Minister, isn't this method likely to excite social tensions? Would it not be easier to think first and then act? Secondly, with regard to your responsibility for the 1996 law, I share what was said earlier on the index. Indeed, I think what has been decided is stupid and mean. Beast at the economic level; bad for workers, pensioners and other social beneficiaries. Under the 1996 Act, when the index jump was applied, other revenues were also moderated, including the income of some administrators. Yes or no within your jurisdiction, do you consider doing the same? Finally, with regard to pre-pensions, as Mrs Kitir has said, you can see that the decision you made is totally unfair. The social partners assume their responsibilities. They're asking you to wait and they're gonna fix the problem between bosses and unions. You said you were thinking about it, but there were technical problems. I would like to know what these technical problems prevent social dialogue from being respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u19	Prime Minister, what did you come to say last week in this same rostrum?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u20	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u21	You weren't here, but Minister Peeters. I wasn't there either because I was at the OECD. That's why I'm asking you. It may not have been in this Chamber, but it is possible. More seriously, what did the government say last week? He said that he was not opposed to going back to the pre-pension measure, but that the ball was in the hands of the social partners, who had to find a solution and an agreement in that regard. They have reached an agreement, not only on the past, but also on the future and on specific issues such as construction and heavy trades in general, the elderly unemployed, night workers, etc. The agreement is supported by 100% of the social partners and, furthermore, recognise that they are acting with great efficiency. Through this agreement, they introduce more fairness than in government decision-making. To the general astonishment, the government, which had promised to move forward if a solution was found, refers the agreement back to technical groups. You'll explain to me what that means, because I have the impression that it's a fake group! This shows, once again, the dissension in your majority. So, Prime Minister, are you finally going to follow the social partners or are you going to sit down on this agreement from all the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, it seems that this government is having difficulty in concluding agreements. Apparently, the N-VA has problems with the ability of employers and employees to conclude agreements in this country. Apparently, the N-VA is reading this at least because empathy, empathy and empathy are being shown for the difficult position of older workers in the labour market. Apparently, every day the N-VA is a little more the party of the 1 % people who have it very well and much less the people who have it much harder. Mr Prime Minister, what I do not understand is that you follow them in this, that this government follows them in it and doubts whether it will validate the partial agreement in the area of early retirement, in the area of activation of older workers. I really don't understand that. That's asking for trouble. This has ignored the problems experienced by older workers in the labour market. That is asking for more social protest, for unrest and instability. Certainly your government should thank the social partners; it should thank the workers and employers who have all supported this agreement. After all, they do things you can't do. The social partners do what you do not want to do, in particular: conclude agreements. Agree and make decisions, Mr Van Rompuy, instead of bickering and arguing, that is what the social partners are doing. And so they are slowly restoring what is unbalanced in the coalition agreement and in the budget. The social partners do what you cannot or do not want to do. They are doing something else that you cannot or do not want to do, namely to take into account the concrete lives of people. They take into account the sometimes difficult situation of people on the labour market, people who are sweating for our welfare state, for our country. They argue from the point of view of practice in the workplace, but do not make abstract pleas to delete cases and breach contracts. Energize? No, empathy! All things that you, Mr Peeters, Mr Michel, cannot do with this government. My question is very simple: why are you still in doubt? Why are you reinvigorating this country again? Decide today, here and now in Parliament, that you will validate the partial agreement, an important building block for social peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u23	Mr. President, ministers, we're not going to let go. We bite in it and we'll go to the end! Mr Peeters, last week you told me that your gsm was vibrating in every direction. And you will not deny me if I say that you have not yet finished listening to your messages, which were added 800 additional testimonies. It proves that people are really angry. I cannot understand why, when last Monday an agreement was reached within the Group of Ten, 72 hours later, this government is still unable to endorse this agreement. Since September, however, we have heard of hundreds of times of social consultation. Why, 72 hours later, cannot we respond positively to the social actors in this country? Well, I'll say it. It is not a technical problem but a political problem and a technical group will not solve it. There are right-wing parties here that block everything. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA and the Open Vld, you do not know what it means to have to work on the treadmill at Opel for up to 57 years. You don't know what it means to work hard at ArcelorMittal up to 56 years. It's all easy for you! It is time you realized that the people in Belgium are working their asses off for the high productivity in our country. It is easy for you to decide whether to work longer, but you do not know anything about what is happening in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to make it clear today, in this House, that ending the royal decree which obliges workers to continue to seek work up to the age of 65 is a priority! The social world, whatever the right-wing members think, has made it clear that there will be a mobilization! The trade union centres have already announced that they will not accept the government's blockage! Mr Prime Minister, Minister Peeters, do you intend, tomorrow morning at the first hour, to endorse the agreement of the Group of Ten re-establishing the right of these workers to a well-deserved rest?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u24	Mr. President, I don't have a tablet this time. Yet, Mr. Vuye, there is also a breach of contract for pre-pensioned workers. As I said last week in plenary, I have said repeatedly to the Minister for Employment in the Committee on Social Affairs! Which means breach of contract, says breach of trust! Workers who left for pre-pension did so contractually, with a view to no longer having to look for work, sometimes after a long career, often old enough, regardless of their health situation. Despite the various appeals we have made to the government, you have listened deafly so far! On the other hand, the social partners - and this is to their credit - have started to work and found a balanced solution. The acquired rights remain acquired! Availability should no longer be active, it should be passive. In doing so, they could have removed a famous thorn from your foot. What an astonishment to see the government's delay at this stage in refusing to honour this agreement. Yet, on several occasions, the Minister of Employment told us: "Als er een akkoord is, zal dit akkoord gehonoreerd worden". Prime Minister, we simply ask you to respect this agreement between the social partners. But I don't know if it's up to you or Mr. Peeters to ask the question. Is it more to Mr. Jambon, who is absent, or to Mr. De Wever, never been in this Chamber? Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, can you commit today and tell us that this agreement will be honoured?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to speak with more sobriety than the few speeches I have just heard. First of all, I want to look at the facts. In our coalition agreement, we made it clear that social dialogue is an important issue for us. It's not an easy debate. In the past, I have found that the discussions within the Group of Ten and between the Group of Ten and the Government have never been easy. It is not a clear debate, but the political will is there to conduct it. What are the facts? A few months ago, before Christmas, we reached a first concrete agreement between the Group of Ten and the Government. We have implemented this 100%, in accordance with the government's decision. Secondly, at the beginning of this year we had very important and delicate debates on the welfare envelope and the wage margin. That wasn't obvious. The government proposed a framework note to the Group of Ten, which provided the opportunity for a further in-depth discussion and an agreement to be reached. After discussions and evaluation of the decisions taken by the Group of Ten, the government has committed itself. Last week, the government started the legal enforcement of the agreements that were concluded within the Group of Ten. Thirdly, we had suggested to the Group of Ten in January, in parallel with the discussions on the wage margin, that we should address two issues: on the one hand, not the conditions for pre-pensions, but the availability for pre-pensioners – a significant grade – and on the other, the tariff for prevention services, two topics on which the Group of Ten, for several weeks, worked to try to issue an opinion. This work was carried out in a completely banal manner. Monday evening, at 10 p.m., I received the proposals from the Group of Ten. These are not legal texts, but an agreement between the social partners addressed to the government, an agreement which requires a financial, budgetary, technical, legal view of the texts, as well as informal contacts with actors in the Group of Ten to understand the interpretation to be given to the proposals made by the Group of Ten. We will also be working later this afternoon and the item is on tomorrow's agenda. Next week, we will also communicate the government's positions on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Onkelinx for what she has said about my heart. I'll treasure that for other moments. I should like briefly to join with the Prime Minister in stressing the importance of the Group of Ten discussing and concluding agreements. I know from the past that it is very difficult to reach agreements in the Group of Ten. We already have three in a row and it is a good thing that the social dialogue in Belgium is given momentum. All those who have reservations about this in the Group of Ten are mistaken. I hope they understand the value of such an agreement. Second. I am well aware, Mrs Kitir and other Members, that there are many concerns about the SWT. I have said several times here that we would have this matter discussed further in the Group of Ten and that we would examine its results. The Group of Ten has reached an agreement and I hope, as the Prime Minister stressed, that when we receive that agreement, you will not blame us for looking at it quietly and taking a decision on it tomorrow. I believe that everyone with the necessary coolness and serenity should wait until tomorrow, so not for long, to get a clear answer from the federal government. I understand that emotions are getting very high; that means that it is a very important problem. We are aware of that. Tomorrow, the federal government will reach an agreement on this matter and it will be communicated. We in this House will then be able to discuss this matter in detail and everyone will be able to say their word. Please give us time to make the right decision on this matter tomorrow. The problem is important enough to be discussed by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u27	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I've heard a lot of words, but I'm looking for the deeds. I have heard many times that you consider social dialogue to be important. You've both come to explain and defend that with a lot of words, but it's your government that has to turn it around. You must not come and tell us that we must question the Group of Ten or the social agreement. We do not question that. If the employers' and employees' representatives come to an agreement together, I do not understand why the government would not accept this in its entirety. I look forward to your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u28	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I note that you have not answered any specific questions that you have been asked about the working method and the 1996 law. I will therefore come back to you, either in committee or outside this Parliament, for specific answers on this subject. As far as pre-pensions are concerned, you tell us to wait tomorrow. That is no problem. One can, of course, wait one day for the government to accept the proposals of the employers and the unions. And I will be the first to greet you if that is the case. But if you do not accept these proposals, know that, as an individual, you will appear, vis-à-vis the outside world, as a very friendly person, but unable to enforce an agreement resulting from social consultation. Collectively, the government will challenge our social model, our model of social consultation. He will therefore be responsible for the social tensions which will not fail to extend to the whole territory. Indeed, your decision on pre-pensions is truly unbearable, unacceptable and ethically unjust.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you first of all for your answers. Having said that, I believe that the way in which you manage today to wrap up your political disagreements is a little more elegant than in the past. You're calling for serenity. You are asking that we wait tomorrow, which is obviously quite possible. The social partners who have reached an agreement call on the government to respect the latter. But they also appeal to parliament. Indeed, in this agreement, the social partners appeal to Parliament to honour the commitments they have made and to transpose them as soon as possible into legislation. It's very simple: we'll wait tomorrow. But if, tomorrow, the government decides not to follow the agreements reached, we will table them at the level of this Parliament by telling us that we may find, in your majority, Prime Minister, allies to transpose into law the agreements reached between the social partners on pre-pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u30	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, I fully agree with you that this is a sensitive and delicate issue. We therefore call for a serious and credible approach. However, Mr Vice Prime Minister, those who ignore the difficult situation of older people in our labour market are in your majority. Those who ignore the benefits of social dialogue and who seem to have problems with it are in the majority. Those who do not respect the agreement are in the majority. The arsonists and the rioters are in the majority. They're called N-VAS. Apparently, it disturbs the N-VA that agreements are concluded between employers and employees in our country. Prime Minister, it is clear that we must do everything we can to help older people in our labour market. Better a job than a benefit. What is the result of this government's job report, however? No 200 000 jobs, as announced by you, not 80 000, as announced by Minister Van Overtveldt, not 60 000, as announced by Minister Peeters, but only 10 000 net jobs created by this government. Please do something about that. Put that at the heart of budgetary control. Start tomorrow by making it clear that you respect the work of trade unions and employers. You'd better thank them instead of further compromising their credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u31	Prime Minister, seventeen years of healthy life expectancy! This is the difference between the highest graduates of our society, especially here, and the lowest graduates in the technical companies of our country. We are not equal in the face of death. When you decide to have all these workers work for up to sixty-five years in an active manner, you do not allow them to take their well-deserved rest. You say that the measure will create jobs for the youth, but nothing is less true. Here is a graph of the youth employment rate in Sweden, where you say it worked. Between 2000 and 2006, youth unemployment rose from 10 to 24%, well above the European average. In countries where elders have been forced to work longer, young people have not found a job. I'll finish on that. Tomorrow is an important moment for the common front. Many trade unions clearly see that there may be a chance tomorrow that this right-wing government will take a step backwards, that this government will not implement the royal decree. I hope you will listen to the social movement!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u32	Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, we will wait and see tomorrow and then we will come back to the burden because this is obviously not the only measure you have taken that stigmatizes and affects even more the most fragile of our society. You step back and we will continue to push you back. As a result of this discussion, I would like to send an alarm to the government. Mr. Peeters is right. Er is een problemem in uw regering, between those who respect social dialogue and those who throw oil on fire and do provocation. Do not question the system of social dialogue and social negotiation in our country between workers' representatives and employers' representatives! You talk about tripartite all the time. You refuse to implement good agreements or you drag on to implement them, creating disorder and anxiety. This is a fundamental mistake, Prime Minister! Put your government in order! And then there are alternatives to older workers, to younger workers. Work on career ends, the possibility of gradually lifting the foot, of being replaced by young people! Be imaginative! It's possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u33	Mr President, Minister of Work, you have always followed up Volvo's dossier closely in your capacity as Prime Minister of Flanders. We hope that you will do the same here as Minister of Work. Yesterday, Volvo announced that it would make use of economic unemployment. According to the CEO, that might take a few years. Maybe I should sit down with the factory, colleagues. Volvo Ghent employs 5 500 people. With the subcontracting companies, this figure is close to 10 000 employees. This puts Volvo first when it comes to employment in the region of Ghent. In Ghent three models of the band roll: the V40, the S60 and the XC60. These larger models will eventually disappear and Ghent will then become a platform for small models. Volvo still asked and asked for measures from the federal government to strengthen its competitive position: not only should wage costs be reduced, production costs and social charges should also be reduced. Now we also want to make use of economic unemployment. This economic unemployment is an instrument to cope with temporary unexpected shifts in production. However, companies themselves must also assume their responsibilities and act on their own. Even though I am not a doomsday, Minister, this announcement gives rise to a great deal of concern among the staff. It is fearful to wait for those thousands of workers at Volvo what will bring the future. I come to my questions, Minister. Do you have more information about Volvo Cars Gent's longer term plans? What agreements have been reached on the application of economic unemployment and what impact will this have on employment in the longer term? Do you think that in return for government efforts such as wage cuts, we should also expect efforts from companies? In other words, can we expect Volvo to make an effort in terms of employment and production volumes?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Yüksel, in reply to your first question, I can tell you that on 13 February 2015, together with the Prime Minister of Flanders, there was a meeting with the Volvo Summit. During that maintenance it was announced that a new model will be developed in Volvo Ghent in 2019. That is always a very important and delicate decision. After all, when it is decided to produce elsewhere, it has serious consequences. So the positive news is, first of all, that from 2019 a new model will be manufactured in Ghent. On that occasion, the CEO was explicitly asked what his long-term vision for Volvo Ghent is. The CEO publicly replied to the press: "Volvo is here to stay." The most important thing he has underlined is that they invest huge sums of money in Ghent. That is the best guarantee to make it clear to Volvo's employees and also to the governments that they think it is important to invest in Ghent here in Belgium. That is an important message and an important signal. We must follow this very closely and make sure that the promises are actually made. Secondly, you asked a question about temporary economic unemployment. As you know, we are being congratulated by the OECD and other institutions on this system, because it makes it possible for us, during a certain period when production is insufficient or lower, not to fire the workers, but to make that system of temporary economic unemployment work. Volvo assumes that the transition from the current production model to the new model will be made to that system. Any company, including Volvo, can rely on it and, with the rules we now know, use that temporary unemployment. However, I also assume that Flanders, especially in the field of training aid, is making the necessary efforts, as has been the case in other companies in the past in order to provide the necessary framework for this. Finally, Volvo is a very important company, especially for employment. With our powers at the federal level, we will do everything we can to achieve employment in Volvo as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think the company's commitment to this is important. The EUR 100 million investment will, of course, ensure the necessary guarantee and security for the company and its staff. This government wants to put work forward as a priority. She wants to keep as many people at work as possible and help as many people on a job as possible. I think this is very important. Of course, all efforts must be made to achieve this. These efforts must, of course, come from both sides; that is the case in love, and that is certainly the case in business. The Flemish Government must make efforts to do this, but so must our companies. In this way we can ensure that jobs can be guaranteed in our country. I am counting on your efforts to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who has booked a summer trip over the last few weeks and hopes to score an early-book discount, may well come to an unpleasant surprise when they get their mobile bill on the bus after their journey. Indeed, the roaming charges, the far too high costs paid when calling, surfing or calling abroad would be abolished, but nothing is now less true. In order to solve this problem, we should not, as some Socialists say, look at the retail price, the price passed on to customers. The problem lies much more with the wholesale price, the price that foreign operators, and especially the operators in southern destinations, in the sunny countries, pass on to the tourist's operator. As long as these costs are too high, they will of course always be passed on to all the customers of those operators, including those who do not stay abroad every month and also to those who do not even have the money to travel. That seems anything but social to me. Hence my question, Minister: what will you do? How and when can we place the Club Med countries on their responsibilities and remind them that membership of the European Union is not only a matter of rights, but also of obligations, that we must work together to create a single European digital market and that greater cooperation is needed for economic growth? How will we encourage them to do so? Mr. Secretary, do you see possibilities in some kind of coalition of the willing? The Benelux Parliament has unanimously adopted a resolution aimed at abolishing roaming charges at Benelux level. Do you see any possibilities there? This may not be so obvious, given European legislation, but I would very much like to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u37	Minister, I do not know if you have seen the cover of The Economist last week: "Planet of the phones'. The smartphone is the future, a bit like the wheel in the past. Last year, more than four million smartphones were sold in our country. By 2020, all Belgians will have one. In other words, we will pay with it, we will monitor our health with it, we will be able to do anything with it. It is, of course, very unfortunate that, just when technology has no borders, Europe does. Roaming charges are an anachronism from the 20th century. They hinder innovation and a single market and also work every day in reality. I have set up a partnership with my city, Kortrijk, across borders, including the Euro Metropolitan Lille. Well, it takes five times more to call from Kortrijk to Lille, 20 kilometers further, than from Kortrijk to another place in our country. Meanwhile, people are wondering why the United States is the ICT Mecca. In the United States everything happens technologically. Europe stands by and looks at it. The question is: what can we do about it? Last year, under liberal encouragement from Mrs Kroes, the European Parliament decided to abolish roaming charges by December 2015 and to refer to the history books. However, resistance from southern countries, Club Medlanden, who want to postpone the decision until 2018 under pressure from their operators. Minister for Digital Agenda, what steps can Belgium take to speed up the abolition of roaming charges?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u38	Roaming charges in the EU have been systematically reduced in recent years. The last time that happened was in July last year. Our country has always been very clear, even in recent months. We are in favour of going much further and abolishing roaming charges as quickly as possible, but at the same time ensuring that charges for people not going abroad do not rise, the so-called waterbed effect. There has been a long discussion in the Council. Some described it as a fight by David against Goliath. I think it was mainly a procession of Echternach. In recent months we have seen that it has been very difficult to reach an agreement with a number of countries. You called them the Club Med countries, others they call the holiday countries, at least countries where many people use roaming. Then we have a choice. Either we continue to muddle for months and months without guarantee that we will achieve our goal. Or, since it seems that we are not getting there in that way and we cannot afford to waste any more time, we should use another method. Europe has chosen the method advocated by our country: the method of conciliation. We are now going to the European Parliament, because we know that there are many people in the European Parliament who have the same opinion as our country, namely that we need to reduce roaming charges as quickly as possible. We call on the positive forces in the European Parliament to reach an agreement as soon as possible, which goes beyond what would be possible in the European Council. We are confident that the European Parliament will follow the correct reasoning, partly in line with what Mr Van Quickenborne said about the economic opportunity. Indeed, there is no single European digital market today, and we see the consequences of that. Many innovations are being made in the United States, but not in Europe, either because our markets are too small or because roaming costs are a major stumbling block. The other reason is, of course, that we find it unfair that those who go abroad occasionally pay enormous costs for things that are absolutely normal today, namely communication and the use of the smartphone. Mr Dedecker, you asked the question about the opportunity of a Benelux initiative. We have examined this and found that regulators and legislators have little power to do so in the Benelux context. Roaming is, after all, regulated by the European regulation. Unfortunately, as long as there is progress with the European regulation, it is not possible to take a Benelux initiative. However, we are counting on more votes in Parliament to support the opinion of our country, namely that we should abolish roaming charges as soon as possible, for citizens and for our economic opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u39	Minister, as far as the Benelux story is concerned, there are sometimes laws and practical objections between dream and act. That is a pity. Thank you for your voluntarism in addressing the issue at European level. You want to work with Parliament. Indeed, Parliament has made a clear statement on several occasions in resolutions and such like, in which it says that it wants to put an effective end to roaming charges. That will work, but the problem will continue to exist in the European Council. There is still an agreement to be found, and that is, of course, the difficulty. That is why I ask you to focus on the opportunities and opportunities that exist with a single European digital market. There are a lot of economic opportunities there. Perhaps we should look at economic cooperation in the telecommunications field with the more difficult countries. We really need to look for win-win situations, otherwise we will not get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which, as always, is very clear. We are pleased that Belgium is in the innovators' camp and that you want to make a difference with the digital agenda. I have read that my fellow Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and I am sure the opposition share your view. So there is a broad majority in our country. That's important. After all, if we want Europe to prove its added value vis-à-vis citizens and businesses, it is in the case of roaming charges where Europe can make a difference. We are counting on white smoke to come soon and roaming charges to be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u41	Mr President, Minister, Nina Khrushchova, great-granddaughter of Nikita Khrushchev, put it this way: "The murder of opposition leader Boris Nemtsov is not a surprise but a shock and an alarm signal to the Russians, who have tolerated a culture of lawlessness and impunity that recalls the darkest days of Stalinism in the Soviet Union. Minister, last Friday Boris Nemtsov, former Russian Deputy Prime Minister and opposition leader, was murdered at a stone's throw from the Kremlin. This murder shows a change in Russian political reality: a culture of impunity is increasingly the order of the day. The Russian regime itself is responsible for this. With a nationalist discourse focusing on political opponents and thereby creating a climate of fear and lawlessness, Putin is trying to divert the attention of the Russian population from the economic situation in Russia. This economic situation has deteriorated enormously as a result of economic sanctions, the fall in oil prices and the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The regime is increasingly using a black-and-white attitude towards political opponents and is becoming more and more authoritarian. Anti-democratic, but also anti-Western propaganda is increasingly becoming the guiding principle of the regime's supporters. This murder of a direct political opponent has really reached a new low point. That murder can therefore be seen as a shift from a more pragmatic regime to a regime seeking self-preservation. Minister, can you explain the impact of this attitude of the Russian regime on relations with Belgium and with Europe? Do you agree with the view that Belgium, as President of the Council of Europe, should take diplomatic steps towards Russia to address this issue? Minister, will you take an active role in raising this issue within the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, I share your concern about the shrinking political space in the Russian Federation. Like you, I was shocked by the murder of Boris Nemtsov. I immediately asked for an independent investigation into the truth. This was not only a question from Belgium but also from many other countries. With regard to the European Union, I can say the following. There has been an evolution since the annexation of Crimea, but also since the involvement of Russian military forces in eastern Ukraine. We have already taken a number of decisions, with individual and also economic sanctions. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we will have discussions in Riga with fellow Members of the European Union to possibly go further. That is a Gymnich, an informal meeting of the Foreign Ministers. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, I have already taken initiatives. As chairman of the Minister's Committee, I was in Kiev and Moscow on 9 and 10 December 2014. At that time, I met many NGOs, but also the Ministers for Justice and Foreign Affairs, as well as the President of the Duma, the Parliament, and the Commissioner for Human Rights. We have advocated openness of Russia towards NGOs, for example. It proved possible to make a very small progress for one NGO: Memorial. You may have read that Memorial can work more in Russia. But that is not enough, we have many questions to ask Russia about human rights. Second, the murder of Boris Nemtsov. I asked the Ministerial Committee in the Council of Europe to make a consensual statement. That was possible on 4 March: even with Russia, we asked for an independent investigation into the murder of Boris Nemtsov. Finally, I will look together with the Secretary-General at the Council of Europe at what possible new steps can be taken. Perhaps next month, before the end of our presidency, I will return to Moscow to put even more pressure on Russia. You know that progress in Russia is not easy at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very pleased to hear that you are prepared to take new steps or think about them. In this context, I would like to call on you to emphasise very strongly the values on which Europe is built: human rights, freedom of expression, democratic freedoms. I wish you every success in those steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the European Court of Human Rights finally condemned our country to pay EUR 90 000 in damages within three months to Mr Trabelsi, who was formerly extradited by our country as a terrorist to the United States of America. That is a very strange judgment of the Court, based on Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. In practice, the European Court of Human Rights is subsidising Al-Qaeda. Isn't that the way it is in practice, if you ask me? The key question is, of course, what our government will do. I have heard that Mr Trabelsi still owes EUR 125 000 to the Belgian State as a result of fines and related cases. Can you confirm that? Perhaps we could freeze the compensation of EUR 90 000 on account of the outstanding debts in our country. We could also go to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to ask for advice. Perhaps we can put some other procedures into practice to ensure that this compensation is not paid to the person who is supposedly still in prison, perhaps for life, in the United States of America. Therefore, Minister, my question to you is quite clear. What initiatives will the government take to ensure that this sum of money, to which we have been condemned, is not paid out to a terrorist for the Al-Qaeda organisation and who, as such, is still in prison in the United States of America?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u45	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, it is true that the European Court has refused to take the decision on Mr Trabelsi to the Grand Chamber of the European Court. We have not been right in this respect from the European Court of Justice, although I have followed the approach that my predecessor had taken in that area. On 16 February the competent college of five judges decided on twenty-one cases at the same time as referring to the Grand Chamber. Nineteen of them were rejected and two were admitted, and among those nineteen were also the Trabelsi case. The fact that we extradited Mr Trabelsi during the procedure before the European Court, as well as the fact that the compressibility of the sentence could raise a problem because of the fact that it could be a lifetime in the US, is problematic in the light of Article 3 of the European Convention. As regards compensation, it is indeed a cumulative amount of EUR 90 000, EUR 60 000 for damages and procedural compensation and EUR 30 000 for proceedings. We must in principle compensate Mr Trabelsi for this compensation of EUR 90 000. You alert me to a possible compensation with an amount that Mr Trabelsi would still be due. I will not fail to verify that. You can ask me again when you wish to do so. In any case, I see no reason to conclude that the European Court would have ruled outside its mandate or against international law. With you, I regret that there has been no reference to the Grand Chamber to reopen the argumented debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but it does not satisfy me because it is not sufficiently robust. I expected you to take everything out of the box to ensure that the payment of EUR 90 000 to Mr Trabelsi was somehow prevented. I think the government should be more persistent here and you should try to do everything you can to ensure that this sum is not paid to a terrorist, because this amounts to subsidising Al-Qaeda with taxpayers' money. No more or no less. I refer to the fact that the UN Convention of 9 December 1999 to combat the financing of terrorism expressly provides that no money may be made available by the government to terrorist organisations. If we pay this sum, even if there is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, then we subsidise terrorism. That is against the international convention of the UN. Maybe we should also call on that convention not to pay this sum to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u47	Mr President, Minister, it is up to me that you wish to reduce the staff of prisons responsible for the direct supervision of prisoners. The number of officers would be reduced by level and wing, particularly at the Lantin prison for night benefits. This would have implications for the safety of officers and detainees, but also for citizens. After a sixth reduction in staff, night workers would no longer be able to perform all their duties safely. In the event of a fatal outcome, the agent could be put in trouble and held responsible by the family. In fact, in the event of a problem, the area police on which the establishment directly depends is lagging behind because night staff also work on reduced staff. For all these reasons, Minister, my questions are as follows. Is it your intention to effectively reduce the prison staff responsible for the direct supervision of prisoners? If so, by what order would this be reduced and what agreements would you take with your colleague from the Interior so that the time for police intervention is reduced to the maximum? Do you intend to implement or develop another technology-based monitoring system?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u48	Mr President, Mr Carcaci, I do not intend to reduce the number of prison staff responsible for the direct supervision of prisoners. It is true that within Sector III Justice Committee, in the framework of social consultation, a working group has been set up to carry out an exercise to rationalise and modernise working methods. The government agreement implies a reduction of the budget by 10% of the accumulated staff for 2018. In addition, the circulars of the Minister of Budget and the Minister of Public Service involve a freeze on recruitment. However, I have told the prison staff unions that there will be no dry dismissals in prisons. As far as police intervention time is concerned, the discussion still needs to be discussed with my colleague from the Interior. I hope that the negotiations on the guaranteed service, which are also the subject of a working group within the Committee on Sector III, will be concluded in order not to have to call for police intervention. The implementation or development of another monitoring system based on the technology or redistribution of staff tasks is also part of the discussion within the working group on Rationalisation and modernisation of working methods, in the framework of social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that there will be no staff reductions. I will keep an eye on the development of this issue because the safety of prison staff, prisoners and our citizens is a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the arms fell on me, and the word is weak, when I read the remarks made by the bishops of Belgium on 2 March. Indeed, they said: "Since the Euthanasia Act of 2002, the observation is necessary, the drift predicted at the time has become a reality. The limits of the law are circumvented or even transgressed. The range of patient groups involved in euthanasia continues to grow." Colleagues, the end of life of people suffering from severe physical and/or psychological suffering, without hope of remission, has been the subject of a legal arsenal in our country which, since the 2002 law, allows those affected by this tragic situation to demand a medically assisted death, a death with dignity. This, I believe, is a considerable step forward for our country. This legislation and its extension to minors of age have been the subject of a very long democratic debate. The law provides for many beacons. I shall mention only two of them: the scope of application is very limited and the doctor who practiced euthanasia must submit a registration document to the inspection committee. Of course, a law cannot provide for everything. The medical profession has the necessary safeguards to avoid drifts. In addition, a Federal Monitoring and Evaluation Commission has been set up to oversee euthanasia. She's multi-convictional. The Commission reports every two years and the last one in our possession from 2004 states: "The Commission confirms its previous views that the application of the law has not led to major difficulties or abuses that would require legislative initiatives." I therefore wonder what the bishops of Belgium are saying. Minister, are you aware of any proven cases where the law would have been violated? Have any legal actions taken by relatives, officials of associations or representatives of health authorities in connection with the implementation of the 2002 Act been successful?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Flahaux, your written question was very brief. From then on, I had difficulty knowing how to answer it. However, the law of 28 May 2002 specifies under which very strict conditions euthanasia is allowed and the procedure to be followed. If a doctor fails to comply with this law, he or she is subject to criminal prosecution. In addition, the Act established a Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia in the Ministry of Health, which must verify that euthanasia is practised under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the above-mentioned Act. Any physician who engages in euthanasia must inform the Commission and provide it with a registration document with several detailed information on the implementation of euthanasia. The Commission shall then examine it and verify whether the conditions and the procedure have been complied with. In case of doubt, it may conduct a more in-depth investigation. When she considers that the conditions have not been complied with, she may forward the file to the King's prosecutor for the place of death of the patient. The Commission, as you say, draws up a biennial report for the attention of the legislative chambers. For the time being, I have no detailed knowledge of any cases. Moreover, I did not receive any disturbing signals from my services that would indicate that the law or compliance with it would require an adjustment in practice. Of course, if I received signals in this direction, I would naturally do everything possible to enforce this law, like any other law. With regard to the prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is not possible for me, in the short period of time allowed to answer this topical question in plenary session, to provide you with more information on the guidelines within the Public Prosecutor's Office or to provide you with figures on the number of cases. If you specify your question in writing, I am prepared to ask the College of Attorneys General about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u52	Minister, thank you. Your answer reassures me. For my part, I believe that the euthanasia law is a real step forward for our society. To die in dignity when no way out is possible has become a right that we must honour. I would like to remind religious leaders, and I am a Christian, that in Belgium it is the elected representatives sitting in parliament, and they alone, who, after consultation with health professionals and the guarantors of ethics, define the law – and no other moral authority, of any chapel it claims. In the end, you confirm that the statements of the bishops of Belgium did not have to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, to combat obesity and dental caries in particular, the World Health Organization recommended, on Wednesday, to limit the consumption of free or hidden sugars in sweet soft drinks or products. For WHO, these sugars are expected to account for only 10 per cent of the daily energy intake. Too much simple sugar from sweet drinks, snacks and other sweets is considered to be one of the main reasons for increasing obesity, especially in children, not to mention dental caries. The same logic applies to adults, with risk factors for a number of other conditions, such as type 2 diabetes, vascular and cardiac disorders, as well as some cancers. Without neglecting the fact that the Nutrition-Health Plan has been communitized, Madam Minister, what actions do you intend to take in collaboration with the federated entities to combat excess sugar in the diet? Is this item on the agenda of a forthcoming inter-ministerial conference? If so, when will it take place? In addition, in cooperation with the Minister for Consumer Protection, you are planning to adapt the regulations in accordance with the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health in respect of foodstuffs and other products, in order to significantly reduce the use of sugar in prepared foods.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Thoron, thank you for your question. The World Health Organization has issued a new directive on the consumption of sugar by children and adults. In particular, the WHO wants a significant reduction in the consumption of free sugars, i.e. added simple sugars and disaccharides in food and sugars naturally present in syrups for fruit juices. WHO's concern is in line with our ongoing efforts to promote a healthy and balanced diet as part of the National Nutrition-Health Plan. As you know, this is no longer limited at the federal level. Other authorities in that country are contributing. I am thinking in particular of the Communities, which are competent for health education and health prevention policy. As far as food is concerned, many rules have also been agreed at European level and a solution can therefore only be found by dialogue with other authorities. At the federal level, we can enter into agreements with the sector on the composition, labelling and advertising of food products within the framework of European regulations. For this reason, a working group on energy reduction has been set up in which we consult with the economic actors concerned, including the food industry and its subsectors, the large distribution sector, but also the Horeca federations and the community kitchens. The aim is to reach an agreement as soon as possible, so that the amount of added sugar can be reduced, as well as the fat and trans fatty acids, the excess calories and the size of the servings. Even today, the food industry has indicated that it is aware of its responsibility. I therefore believe that we will be able to make rapid progress in the fight against this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Excess sugar is a real public health problem. We therefore believe that the federal authority, in consultation with all interested parties, must look at the current regulations regarding the composition of our diet, starting with sugar. It is important to see how and to what extent it is possible to reduce the sugar content in our diet. The organisation of a round table bringing together all stakeholders, such as the food industry, patient federations, universities and dietitians, could indeed be a good way forward. In the end, Madam Minister, you have mentioned that we must remain attentive to the labelling of food products to ensure that consumers have complete information on the content and composition of products in order to protect their health and interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u56	Mr President, tomorrow this item will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, but this week it has already been in the press. Minister Van Overtveldt, you have announced what you call a new banking tax that should raise EUR 100 million this year and EUR 150 million next year. You call it a banking tax, but actually it is a reduction in the notional interest deduction of the tax benefits that can be obtained through the notional interest deduction. The corporate tax of banks and insurers in the financial sector would therefore increase. The question is what is being taken as the basis for determining that corporate tax. What equity is used to determine how much corporate tax is payable? There is a certain amount of underequippedness about this, in the sense that it would be the outstanding deposits. My first question, then, is whether that is correct. How do you calculate own funds? Is this about the outstanding deposits? If that direction is the basis of this banking tax, then this bank tax will do exactly the same as all previous ones, namely the banks that have remained disproportionate again due to safe and risk-resisting behaviour outside the banking crisis. How do you decide what equity is? What is the difference between 2015 and 2016? Is there a difference in the way this is calculated? Is there a difference in the supplement or reducing the supplement? How do you arrive at the difference in income between this year and the following year? The government agreement states that you would undertake a major reform of all banking taxes to make them more effectively proportionate, much more risk-weighted. What about timing? How does this banking tax fit in?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Almaci, I would like to point out that this banking tax is not only part of the Finance Policy Paper and the approved programme law, but is also part of the tax shift that is already being implemented, amounting to EUR 2 billion. I refuse to take part in the populist discourse in which banks are constantly set up as, if not the only one, surely the most important culprits of the financial and economic problems we face today. However, I am convinced that society, the taxpayer, has made considerable efforts in recent years to meet the banks and the financial sector. It is therefore only fair and fair that we have come at a time when this financial sector, after the crisis, is contributing to the growth of the economy and employment, and this in the context of the current tax shift, through a reduction in the burden on labour. This measure, specifically for banks, will generate EUR 100 million. You know that this is 75 million for the banks and 25 million for the insurance companies. I must also draw your attention to the fact that there is also an important European dimension, namely the contribution to the European Single Resolution Fund. For our banks, this will include EUR 300 to 350 million. As a result, the banks' total contributions increase from just under one billion euros to more than three billion euros in 2015. I've come to see how the tax is calculated. Because many financial institutions have been left with tax-deductible or transferable expenditure items due to the financial crisis, we had to work creatively to achieve a budgetary return of EUR 10 million. The current proposal guarantees this by limiting the deduction possibilities of, for example, but not only, the notional interests. We wanted to see a number of important balances respected: the distribution between the banking sector and the insurance sector, a reasonable distribution between large and small banks, and all banks must contribute, including foreign branches. For obvious reasons, I cannot give individualised details of who contributes how much, but I can tell you that the burden borne by the big banks in Belgium amounts to more than two thirds of the total.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u58	That is of course by no means an answer to my question, Minister. I asked you on what basis own funds are determined. Of course, the large banks will be numerically representing a larger share. My question is: proportional? The small banks have been disproportionately severely punished for something they have not caused. You know very well, Mr Van Overtveldt, that the big banks have received an implicit guarantee from the government, that they can borrow so much cheaper on the international market and that they compete the little ones away. You know very well that the other banking taxes were also disproportionate and hit the small banks. Now you put new measures on top, without taking a risk weighting. When you were a leader for the N-VA and when you also presented yourself as Professor of Economics in Trends, where you were editor-in-chief, you said that Basel III would bring the banking lobby home the big battle. Well, your new proposal does not even take those minimum conditions into account. I agree with you that Basel III does not go far enough. Your proposal does not even go so far as to take forward the minimum risk weighting conditions that Basel III puts forward. You do not even reach the Basel III bar, which you yourself admitted is far too low. This is another missed opportunity. Once again, you are well below the bar with what you are asking the big banks, which, as the Bank's guide has shown, continue to speculate very hard. You are also well below the bar to restore internal balance in the banking system. The little ones are suffering from the big ones, and you're not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 January last the PS Group had already asked you here about the abolition of Thalys traffic on the Walloon dorsal. Your answer was to be reassuring about the future of Thalys Wallon. You stated that this was only a temporary suspension due to the work of securing the dorsal through the installation of the ETCS system. You also committed to finding alternatives very quickly. However, it would seem that it is of course on a removal of the Thalys Walloon that the Kern would have agreed, highlighting the operating deficit of the line. Your decision would then be symbolically strong, very strong. It would thus deprive Wallonia and more particularly its major cities, Liège, Namur, Charleroi and Mons, of a major international link. It is a heavy decision of meaning that will have a fundamental impact from an economic point of view by insulating Wallonia. Even the MR group leader in the Walloon parliament, Mr Jean-Luc Cucke, whom you know well, whom we know well, is adamantly arguing for the continuation of the Thalys Wallon because, he said, Wallonia does not want to stay on the balcony and a balance must be struck between economic realities and budgetary realities. Madam Minister, my question is very clear: do you commit yourself, yes or no, to re-establish the service of the Walloon dorsal by the Thalys after the work? Thank you and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u60	Mr. President, Minister, do you know that Thalys Wallon broke its record in 2014? There were more than 140,000 travellers on the Thalys Wallon, with more than 5 million revenue just in 2014. With occupancy rates, because we can have an objective debate, on average, of 52%. We have to look at the occupancy rates for Thalys on Brussels, it would be interesting to make comparisons. This rate exceeds 60 per cent for weekends. Then we heard about suspension for work, then about abolition for economic reasons. It seems that even the government does not know very well what it has decided, unless some of its members try to wrap the decision according to their electorate. Minister, is there finally a question of suspension or removal of the Thalys Wallon? What are the reasons for your decision? Are these technical reasons and adjustments to better ensure safety or are these economic reasons? Do you recognize, Madam Minister, the importance of this line in economic terms, for the development of Wallonia, which actually allows us to position ourselves on the European map in terms of rail mobility? I expect you not to speak the language of wood and to provide specific answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions because you are giving me the opportunity to re-establish the truth on various aspects of this dossier. For security reasons, from 1 April 2015, the Thalys trains will be stopped in the Namur area, following the commissioning of ERTMS, version 2.3.0, decided by Infrabel. I draw attention to this first argument because security is paramount. As a federal minister, I cannot endorse the fact that trains can be allowed to run on tracks that do not provide optimal safety. As I have committed myself to it, I have examined all the alternatives. The study carried out mainly showed the low occupancy of the two ridges, the very high cost of the first alternatives examined – between 5 and 7 million euros per year for the Walloon dorsal. In this context, the Government authorised SNCB to suspend the Flemish and Walloon services from 1 April 2015. The file will be reviewed again as part of the SNCB's modernization and efficiency plan. In the past, other suspensions have taken place. Thus, a suspension of more or less six months was carried out in 2013, while Jean-Pascal Labille was minister. At the time, there had been very little feedback from Thalys clients and members of the CDH or PS. At the budgetary level, I would like to remind you that since 1998, the federal government has paid SNCB 6 to 7 million a year to compensate for the deficit in inland TGV services, including 4.5 million for the TGV of the Walloon dorsal. The transformation of Thalys International into a subsidiary on 1 April 2015 includes new accounting rules which will bring the deficit of the two services to almost 10 million euros and that of the only Walloon service to almost 7 million euros. In the case of the Walloon dorsal, it is necessary to recall that we are talking about a single train per day, specially chartered by Thalys, which runs on an internal line of service. The Thalys traffic represents a daily average of 41 passengers in Liège, 45 in Namur, 43 in Charleroi and 44 in Mons. Annual commercial revenues are 5.7 million for the Walloon dorsal and 3.3 million for the Flemish dorsal. The operating costs are 12.9 million for the Walloon dorsal, compared with 6.1 million for the Flemish dorsal. Losses from 1 April are estimated at 7.2 million for the Walloon dorsal and 2.8 million for the Flemish dorsal. The commercial attraction on the Walloon dorsal is low: one train a day, while on departure from Brussels, passengers can benefit from 15 round trips. The customer analysis shows that, contrary to what is being carried out, the Walloon dorsal only concerns very few business customers. The number of passengers on Saturdays is higher, with 48.77 per cent using leisure/economic tickets. Only 4.73% travel with a Full Flex Business fare. It is, in fact, always possible to reach Paris via Brussels. To pretend that suspending the use of the Walloon dorsal is to remove the Walloon cities from the international map and that the economic consequences are detrimental to the Walloon economy are arguments that are purely demagogy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u62	Minister, I had put a lot of hope in your answer. To tell us today that the removal of the Thalys Wallon will help the Walloon economy, no one can hear it. Mr Miller, Mrs Galant says very clearly that it is useless and too expensive! It's too expensive! It is a measure, Madam Minister, that will weaken Wallonia and we everywhere must fight together to maintain and develop our assets. By removing the Thalys Wallon, you isolate Wallonia, you cut off our big cities in Paris. It is an economic asset and you consider it a budgetary expenditure! Thalys Wallon, Mr. Ducrame - discuss it at MR with Mr. Cricke! - It's also a public service! You're starting to calculate everything. Everything costs! Is it really on these matters that we must make economic efforts when we need this economic recovery so badly, Mrs Galant?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u63	Mr. President, Madam Minister, suspension, suspension, suspension... no! Here we are! This time, I get it. It's not a suspension. That is clear: it is a removal! I love the way you explain the attendance figures. I love the way you obviously didn't contradict me when I said on the Thalys Walloon there were more than 140,000 commuters in 2014! I love the way someone said in 2012 that it was a scandal if we were to eventually consider removing Thalys. Guess who said that in 2012? It was Denis Ducrame here! What I believe, Madam Minister, is that you have given in to the waffle theory. I remember that with SNCB, we had discussed – they were honest – because the attendance at Ostend's Thalys was very low. We called him the ghost TGV. What did you have to do, minister? Instead of defending Hainaut forcefully, instead of defending Wallonia forcefully, you have decided to accept the application of waffle theory and therefore to remove the Thalys Walloon to compensate for the suppression of Thalys in Flanders. Frankly, Madam Minister, I have only one word: hat!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u64	Madam Secretary, as if we have not had enough rail strikes to process in recent months, the rail union ASTB, which may have a thousand members, wants to put a little bit more on top of it. The ASTB announces a 48-hour strike, on March 31st and April 1st. It's not April 1st prank. I wish it were one, so that we could all laugh about it together, but unfortunately it is the poignant reality. Once again, we want to hold the travellers, the willing workers and the taxpayers hostage and seriously damage our economy for 48 hours. This shows once again the importance and urgency of the guaranteed service. The passengers are tired of the rail strikes and they do not understand that there are no trains at all on strike days. In addition, SNCB grants a grant to both the recognised and non-approved trade unions. In 2010, it amounted to as much as 5.5 million euros. I am therefore curious, Madam Minister, whether this amount is conditional on trade unions, for example some form of social peace. It can't be that we're spending taxpayers' money to organize strikes, can it? Finally, we note that in many strikes a number of strikers block the tracks. These are offences which, unfortunately, have not been dealt with or have not been dealt with in the past. Are you prepared to break with the past and act against those who illegally occupy the trail? A fine of EUR 12.5 is, in fact, a very thin penalty for the hostageage of all rail traffic. What is the state of social dialogue with regard to guaranteed services? Are there conditions attached to the donations for the trade unions? Will you insist that legal action be taken this time, in case the trail is occupied?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u65	Mrs De Coninck, the Autonomous Syndicate of Train Drivers is a trade union organisation of train drivers established in 2001. This is a non-approved but authorised organisation, which does not receive any specific funding from SNCB. The ASTB also has no trade union agreement with HR Rail. The Autonomous Syndicate of Train Drivers has submitted a strike notice in accordance with the rules of the Protocol of Social Agreement, calling for a 48-hour strike between 31 March and 2 April and for a sit-in at a station on 18 March. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave these actions to your discretion. I would add that the requirements amount to EUR 40 million. HR Rail has already come into contact with Securail and with the railway police, to organise the framework of the expected strikers. That does not mean that we do not recognise the right to strike. However, we want to ensure the safety of passengers and prevent any act of sabotage on the tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The N-VA is a loyal partner in government. We therefore expect the coalition agreement to be faithfully implemented. The guaranteed service is part of that agreement. Madam Secretary, I welcome your statement that there is a right to strike. I share your opinion. My party also shares your opinion, for us, the right to strike is a fundamental right within our democracy. However, the right to strike does not mean that a company can be shut down as part of a strike. That is certainly not possible with the goods of the company itself. I therefore sincerely hope that social dialogue will lead to an agreement in the short term. The ball is now in the social partners' camp. However, if they do not reach an acceptable agreement, our group will take a parliamentary initiative to achieve the guaranteed service. Let's hope the unions realize that too. Finally, I welcome your reference to the royal decree banning any obstruction, obstruction or delay of rail traffic. I therefore hope that you will take the necessary legal steps in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u67	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karine Lalieux, Nele Lijnen, An Capoen, Véronique Caprasse, Georges Dallemagne, Roel Deseyn, Gwennaëlle Grovonius, Fatma Pehlivan, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoit Hellings
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u69	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (630/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (630/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u70	Mr President, I refer to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have given a very positive and warm welcome to this motion for a resolution. I also thank Mrs Nele Lijnen for her work. We have the proof here that we can work on important issues beyond political affiliations. This resolution is part of an international conference organised by Plan Belgique, which I sponsored with my colleague Nele Lijnen. The conference highlighted a worrying issue on early marriage. This motion for a resolution is a parliamentary act to ensure that this issue is monitored and kept on the agenda at both government and European and international level. Indeed, we have already taken a similar initiative on sexual and reproductive health and rights within the framework of the post-2015 Millennium Development Goals. Every day, 39,000 underage girls are told that they will be married before they reach the age of majority. That means 27 girls per minute! During my speech, more than a hundred girls will hear that they will be forced to marry while still underage. In 2010, 67 million women between the ages of 20 and 24 were married while underage. According to the United Nations Population Fund, if nothing changes, they will be 142 million at the end of the decade and 150 million in the following decade. Never in history have developing countries had such a young population, and therefore, never in history, this topic has been so important and burning. This also applies to all violence against women and to genital mutilation, where, unfortunately, figures for both Belgium and the countries of the South are increasing. Early marriages condemn thousands of young girls to experience dramatic personal, social, economic and, of course, health situations. We know that these are illegal acts in many countries but even if there is a law that condemns this type of practice in these countries, there is never a judgment! Many regions are affected; they are Africa, South Asia and Central America. I am convinced that no culture, religion, custom can be used to legitimize acts that undermine gender equality and the physical and psychological integrity of women. Indeed, the rights of men and women are identical, regardless of their origin and social or geographical location. No discrimination can therefore be accepted. If this phenomenon is relatively limited in geographical terms, it is a global struggle for this Parliament. Minister, you know that we are cooperating with a number of countries, including Niger, where 75% of women between the ages of 20 and 24 are forced to marry. That is why we must put this issue on the agenda – this phenomenon affecting seven of the eighteen countries with which we have relations in terms of development cooperation. The Department of Development Cooperation is the right student in the class, let us acknowledge. In his time, Mr. Labelle had introduced gender as a cross-cutting theme in the Cooperation Act. I think, Mr.Minister, because you have already told us that this will also be a concern of this government. I also want you to take up this issue in the European context and in international relations in general. It is important that every member of Parliament who will vote on this motion for a resolution should put this issue on the agenda of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. These themes may upset partners, but these controversial issues need to be raised. There is equality between men and women. As I can be understood, this position is not dictated by paternalistic sentiment or neo-colonialist will, but by a complete rejection of violations of fundamental rights and a complete desire for equality between men and women. Therefore, Minister, we are waiting for you. With regard to your development cooperation programmes, these issues should be addressed – whether they be forced marriages, genital mutilation or reproductive health. We sincerely count on you in this regard. Similarly, we are counting on you on the Millennium Development Goals. You are negotiating them on a European level. We know there are conservatisms. Europe's decision should not be a step backwards. In this case, I think you will have a lot of work to do, minister. The Belgian position is positive. It must become Europe's. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of particular concern, as is the situation of women in the world, as they are increasingly subjected to violence. I thank you for your support for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a co-signator for the N-VA Group, I would like to briefly raise the position of our group. I was also present at the conference, organized by Plan Belgium. The numbers are staggering. In my speech, I am not going to go into the figures because the content of the resolution has already been quoted very extensively by Mr Lalieux. The number of 27 girls per minute who are being married out is hard to comprehend. In particular, the disastrous consequences of these practices such as early school leaving, increased risk of childbirth mortality and increased risk of violence within marriage are appalling. It is also a permanent problem, given that the population in most developing countries has never been this young. That is why, especially in the light of the Women's Day now on Sunday, we must continue to defend women's rights worldwide and certainly not close our eyes to this problem, even when this is taking place closer to home, closer to European borders. As practice also exists in seven of the 18 partner countries we support, the N-VA Group also supports the appeal to the government to include this issue in the preparation and evaluation of cooperation programmes with partner countries. Finally, I'd like to end my speech with a quote from the conference that I absolutely don't want to remember: "When girls are allowed to be girls, everybody wins".
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u73	I congratulate Mr Capoen on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 1962 United Nations Convention recommends that all States abolish child marriage and the engagement of young girls before marriage age. The Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, ratified by 187 countries, states that a woman has the same right as a man to freely choose her spouse and to enter into marriage only with his free and full consent, but also that engagement and marriage of children will not have legal effect and that all necessary measures must be taken to establish a minimum age for marriage and to make it compulsory for marriage to be registered in an official register. The African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights affirms that the minimum age for marriage of the girl is 18 years. All these laws exist, yet 700 million women are still married before their majority; 250 million of them are under the age of 15. UNICEF was still reporting this situation just a year ago, and it was expected that the figure would continue as a result of population growth. It is known, however, that early marriages cause serious and irreparable harm to young girls, that they are harmful to them, but also to their families and to society. These marriages cause health and socio-economic difficulties: health problems due to early pregnancy, miscarriages, dead children, risk of death during childbirth, risk of obstetric fistula and genital tearing. These girls also face the difficulty of no longer being subject to schooling. Early marriage is often rooted and fuelled by other practices such as genital mutilation or giving a girl in marriage to settle a debt or dispute. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful that fathers or parents, guardians or sometimes even courts do not provide the necessary consent for marriage. Since States are required to incorporate the international treaties they have ratified into their national rights, all members have the responsibility to take all legislative, judicial, administrative or other measures to ensure the full realization of the rights of women and children. Mr Minister, we must ensure that the co-operation partner countries have an adequate legislative arsenal and implement it. In the post-2015 development agenda, the Reform Movement will pay attention to the importance of gender equality, the ability to choose one's spouse, to have one's own body or to decide freely to have children.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Lalieux has just said, in October we jointly chaired the Conference on Forced Marriages in this Parliament, in cooperation with Plan. I was greatly seized by Haoua's testimony. Let me show you her picture. She's 13 years old. She was married when she was nine, and at the age of eleven she had to move in with her husband. He wanted things she didn't want. Thanks to Plan's mediation, the families agreed to dissolve the marriage. Today Haoua, as she herself says, is the voice of the girls who do not have a voice. Every day 39 000 girls are forced to marry, 27 child marriages per minute or, as Lyric Thompson said, one girl every two seconds. One... two... it's happened again. Lyric Thompson, senior policy manager of the International Center of Research on Women spoke at the conference of a human rights violation. Families become strategic financial planners in function of their daughters. Girls are sold for a pack of corn. If no action is taken, 142 million underage girls will be affected by this form of gender-related discrimination and violence in the period 2010-2020. The consequences of child marriages are far too great for girls, for women and for society. Not only are there health risks such as physical and sexual abuse, infant mortality and stillborn children due to early pregnancy, but also socio-economic consequences are severe. Girls leave school, become dependent and live in poverty and socially isolated from their own family and acquaintances. Whole lives and society as a whole are in fact being disrupted. Colleagues, I am convinced that no culture, religion or use should be cited to justify acts that undermine gender equality and the physical and psychological integrity of women. Discrimination between men and women is unacceptable. That was also the starting point of the resolution that was reached across the borders of majority and opposition. I fully agree with you, Mrs Lalieux, that these issues need to be addressed. It is important to work together for this type of topic and to reach a broad agreement. In concrete terms, we ask the government to put the forced child marriages high on the agenda in bilateral relations, in particular with our partner countries in development cooperation. The phenomenon is currently occurring in seven of our 18 partner countries, not least in Congo, where use is widespread. Even in Niger, 75% of the young 20s have been married out. Our country is currently working on an agreement with Niger. It is therefore a particularly important opportunity to explicitly include child marriages. We must also monitor developments in our partner countries. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to bilateral foreign and development cooperation initiatives, it is essential to raise the issue with the European Union and international organisations such as the UN and the African Union. After all, the fight against child marriages is primarily conducted diplomatically at European level. Gender issues related to sexual rights and related issues should therefore also be prominently addressed in the post-2015 Millennium Development Goals. A united European position on this is desirable. Belgium has a leading role to play in this. There is no simple solution to this problem. A horizontal and transversal approach is needed. Among other things, combating poverty, emancipation, safeguarding human rights and education are crucial. However, there is hope, ladies and gentlemen. In countries with strong economic growth, such as Malaysia, China, Brazil and India, we see a decrease in the number of child marriages and consequently also a decline in nationality and better education. In India, parents were given money to send their children to school. Thus the children were educated and at the same time they were not married out. Parents therefore did not force their children to work for them or provide services. In one generation, that has caused a change. In addition to the fact that we are voting on this resolution today, we must bear this message of hope very much in our hearts and spread it along any political scene. I also have faith in the future. According to the policy paper of the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr De Croo, the rights of the child, the universality of human rights and the non-discrimination are important benchmarks of our policy. In addition, the new 2013 Development Cooperation Act identifies gender policy as an important focus. For the Foreign Minister, Mr Reynders, human rights are also a cornerstone of policy. We therefore want to support the implementation of this law, the government agreement and the aforementioned policy paper with the resolution before us. Finally, may I thank Mr Lalieux and the other co-sponsors for joining me in the fight against child marriages? As has just been said, ladies and gentlemen, every second counts. I am therefore counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u76	Mr President, the Ecolo-Groen Group has, in its DNA and its founding identity trait, the fight for women's right to dispose of their bodies, in particular. We have therefore co-signed this resolution with great pleasure and a great resolution. That's the case! We would like to welcome the presence of the Minister for Cooperation in our discussions. Indeed, it is quite rare for a minister to share the discussions. That said, point 2 of the operative part of the resolution which we will be voting on earlier states: "...and calls on the government to mainstream gender in the drafting of future cooperation programmes, including the issue of forced child marriage." The resolution therefore strongly urges the Government to pay particular attention to the fight against early and forced marriage, at a time when development policies are being defined, precisely through the drafting of its cooperation programmes, that is, at the most effective moment. In addition, our role as a parliamentarian is now to read these future programmes with the 18 partner countries drafted by the government, to check that they contain the commitments regarding women's right to dispose of their bodies, to read the annual reports on the state of human rights in the said partner countries and to verify that these beautiful intentions, which will be enthusiastically voted on, have indeed been cast into the bronze of these programmes and applied on a day-to-day basis by the administration responsible for cooperation. You can therefore count on the Ecolo-Groen Group to vote on this motion for a resolution and to fulfil the above tasks in the years to come. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mrs Lijnen and Mrs Lalieux, who are at the origin of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since it is such an important subject, I will not repeat everything, but I will repeat some points. Child marriages are a global curse. This is one of the most poignant abuses in the world, over regions, cultures and religions. Child marriages are also a gross violation of children's and women's rights. They deprive girls of their right to education, emancipation and a full and balanced life. Even though my fellow Members, Mr Lalieux and Mr Lijnen, mentioned the figures, I shall repeat them, even if only to make them more sensitive to public opinion. Almost 40 000 underage girls are forced to marry around the world every day. That's 15 million a year. Without action, the United Nations will see their number increase to 18 million per year by 2050. As mentioned earlier, child marriages are common everywhere, but especially in South Asia and subsaharic Africa they are commonplace. 41 countries have between 30 and 75% of child marriages, so in some countries it means that almost two thirds of girls are married out from seven to eight years of age. Usually they are poor and uneducated girls from rural areas, who are forced to marry very young, usually with much older men. The testimonies we have heard are poignant. It is a good initiative that, in the generic of some films banned for girls under the age of 12, girls declare that the film is forbidden for them, even though they have already been married out. The consequences for the girls are dramatic. They are withdrawn from school and often have health problems with premature pregnancy and childbirth. We cannot imagine that our nine-year-old daughter would be married and a lot of parents would be married and become a mother in ten years' time. I really can't imagine it, but it happens every day. So far, the problem of forced child marriage has not been addressed in Belgian Development Cooperation. If we find that in seven of the 18 partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation there is a prevalence of child marriages of more than 30% in Niger, the percentage is even 75%................................................................................................................................................................................................. The sp.a Group will therefore fully support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u78	Mr President, I come to the perch to have the minister in front of me and thank him. Minister, thank you very much for being here to address such a sensitive and important issue. It's a nice gesture. Ladies and gentlemen, our first concern must be to act in accordance with human rights, including, of course, women's rights, which, now more than ever, are seriously undermined in areas in conflict, such as Syria, Iraq, Libya and Nigeria. We must ensure that these rights are fully effective, regardless of region, culture and religion. The plight of tens of millions of women and girls, who are forced to marry every day, cannot leave us indifferent, especially since the 10-24 years, first affected by early and forced marriage, now account for 43 per cent of the world's population. Forced marriage is a form of gender-based violence that violates gender equality and the physical and psychological integrity of women. Its consequences are innumerable and unacceptable: dropping out of school, risk of dying in bed and having dead children, physical violence, sexual violence. Our internal policy of equality between men and women, on which your government agreement does well to insist, makes sense only if it is reflected in our external development cooperation policy. However, the problem of early and forced marriages affects seven of the eighteen current partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation. Unfortunately, the problem is broader, since most women and girls in these countries still do not have access to the health and sex education services needed to lead a healthy life because of the discrimination against them. Complications during pregnancy and childbirth, gender-based violence, excision and AIDS are among the main causes of mortality among girls in these countries. Forced and early marriage must therefore be combated from a more comprehensive perspective of gender equality and respect for sexual health, as defined by WHO, namely "a state of physical, mental and social well-being that requires a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relations that must be safe, free from coercion, discrimination or violence". It follows that every woman and every girl must be free, without fear, coercion or discrimination, to have her sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to choose whether and with whom she wishes to marry. This proposal, which I ask you to support, aims to fully integrate the problem of early marriage in the countries concerned and, in particular, our partner countries of development cooperation. This integration must be part of a whole, since female genital mutilation, maternal mortality and rape must also be combated. This support is also an obligation for our country. It goes without saying that condemning a practice is not enough to abolish it. That is why the motion for a resolution calls on the Government to act in the long term and in the light of the social norms of the fight against poverty, the schooling of girls and young women and the development of emancipation. Our proposal is thus part of the general policy statement of the Minister for Development Cooperation, which promotes a rights-based Belgian development policy focused on capacity building. It is intended, on the one hand, to strengthen the capacity of those who have duties and are obliged to respect and protect human rights and, on the other hand, to strengthen the capacity of rights holders who need to know about them in order to be able to claim and exercise them. The Declaration also emphasizes the continuing concern for equality between men and women in society, as well as for the rights of the child. As early and forced marriage affects young underage girls, it seems to me more than urgent to take this problem with arms. Finally, I recall the Belgian Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013, which makes the gender dimension a cross-cutting theme in all Belgian development cooperation interventions. The main tool to be developed in this context is undeniably teaching. In fact, the majority of girls forced to marry at an early age live in rural areas, are poorly educated and belong to families with a high degree of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, our duty, our strength, is to say "no" to violence, to the unacceptable, "yes" to free will, to emancipation and to equality. I thank the two initiators of this resolution. This was my first experience when I joined Parliament and I was really touched by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u79	Mr President, I agree with what has already been said. As far as I am concerned, I would like to congratulate the two members who took the initiative in this area and I would like to stress that I will support the motion for a resolution on behalf of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u80	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Members for the resolution I have tabled, which I would very much like to support. As you know, the legal approach is high on the agenda in the policy we are pursuing for development cooperation. The problem of child marriage is, in particular, a problem to which we would like to pay a great deal of attention. It is also a problem which is difficult for us to imagine here in our society. Whoever has children must imagine that he or she has a twelve-year-old daughter and tells her that she has married a 35-year-old man, that she has had a first child and is already pregnant with a second child. Know that she will have an average of seven pregnancies, with all the dangers to her health. This is a situation which we find difficult to imagine and which is a direct violation of essential human rights that are universal. Child marriages are a symptom of two elements. They are a symptom of a certain mentality but also a symptom of very poor countries and very poor social and economic development. We must work in both areas. In the diplomatic field, it is a topic that is largely addressed at European level. In 2010, when the European President was in office, Belgium developed a whole strategy on the subject. We note that the dossier has stopped somewhat at European level today. Together with my colleague Didier Reynders I see how we can revive these initiatives. After all, that is really necessary. At Belgian level there has been a lot of consultation with Plan Belgium. Plan Belgium is an organisation that we finance and in which the subject is very close to the heart. This resolution talks about bilateral cooperation. We include this issue in our bilateral cooperation. Of course, this often depends on the areas in which we work. There are quite a few countries with which we work bilaterally, though in areas that are sometimes very far from the problem itself. Nevertheless, everything we do in our bilateral cooperation is intended to improve the social and economic situation of countries. That is one of the factors that has the most influence to completely eradicate child marriages. As far as Niger is concerned, a new cooperation programme is under discussion. If, in this context, we have the opportunity to work in areas of greater involvement, such as health care, this will be an important step forward. That said, the whole issue is important. However, the cooperation programme provides for the possibility of having delegated cooperation, i.e. working with local organisations or NGOs, which will allow us to better address this problem. Just mention that there are quite a few multilateral organisations that are very active in this domain. Unicef is one of them. We support UNICEF for around EUR 17 million a year. We support UN Women for four million euros a year. We support UNFPA for around EUR 7 million a year. This is a subject that is also part of the post-2015 Millennium objectives. This is one of the 169 objectives; 169 are very many, but it is not because it is only one of them that it would be less important. Parliaments play a role in this issue. This resolution is an important signal, including for the policy we are pursuing. It is an important signal for countries where child marriages take place. It is also very often necessary to adapt the legal framework in those countries. There are legal provisions that allow such matters. It is often the case that the adaptation of legal provisions on the ground is very often carried out through parliamentary cooperation. I shall be delighted to support any initiative in this regard. I would like to thank everyone for this resolution, which I wholeheartedly support from my policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u81	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u82	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u84	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u85	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my speech will obviously not be in the same direction as the previous one, through which I supported you in your actions. Indeed, I do not share the purpose of the bill that is now before us. In a democratic society, rules of general application are produced either by an elected assembly or by persons responsible to such an assembly. In other words, in democracy, we do not enact general laws without having to publicly justify such a responsibility. It is the principle which guarantees, of course, the preservation of the general interest. To date, the IBPT's power to enact general rules has been legitimized by government control. Although no government has ever changed any decision of this body, this principle seems to us to have to be maintained. Tomorrow, it will only be the IBPT who will judge what is in the general interest. This is not in line with the principle of independence as laid down by the European Commission. It is clear that the task of the IBPT is to regulate a liberalised market and that a government must never intervene when a conflict between operators arises. It is not a question of this, but only of the general interest. I also regret, Mr Minister, that you took the opportunity to submit the postal sector to your project, when the Commission had not raised this issue. Finally, this bill is entirely based on a letter from the European Commission – as is the opinion of the Council of State. I have asked you to send us this letter in an advisory capacity. However, we did not receive it. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not call it transparency or democracy to vote for a law based on a European Commission missive that we have not seen before. That seems to me a bad way to work. Therefore, as we did in committee, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mrs Lalieux, I should like to express my satisfaction with this draft law. For me, it offers a review of three years ago, when the telecoms bill was amended. At that time I had a lot of criticism of the sneaking politicisation at BIPT. We're turning back the clock, I said. I am glad that we are now undoing that mistake from the past. I also warned Minister Vande Lanotte that it was not the letter and spirit of the European directive and that the European Commission would not accept this politicisation. I said at that time that we had to guarantee the necessary independence. Minister Vande Lanotte did not see the problem, and if it did appear to be a problem, he would like to fight with the European Commission. I thought that a fairly irresponsible attitude for a minister in office, looking forward to a little fight with the European Commission before the European Court of Justice. That's not exactly the most responsible attitude. I got it right. The European Commission has effectively subpoenaed Belgium. Fortunately, this government accepts its responsibility. It will ensure that the rules are in order and that independence is guaranteed. It will also ensure that there is no longer any possibility of intervention by the Council of Ministers to suspend decisions of the BIPT. That is all obvious, I believe. I am indeed glad that I have been right after so many years and that we are now working on it together with my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u87	Mr President, I would like to justify my group's abstention. We abstained in committee and will abstain here. While it can be understood that the European Commission has found certain articles to be in breach of the regulator's independence directive, it seems to us that two elements are problematic. If the Minister has been able and can rely on the opinion of the Council of State with regard to electronic communications, as I have pointed out in committee, on the question of postal services, the Council of State itself notes that the European Commission has not expressly given its opinion on this issue to date and simply considers that the reasoning which has been followed for some could apply to others. However, it seems to us that there are a number of differences between the problem of electronic communications and that of postal services. We asked the minister in committee about the issue of universal service and the potential danger of approving it without the data. As Mrs Lalieux said, which I like to quote, we did not have the opportunity, in committee, to consult the various letters we might have needed in order to study the problem. On the basis of all these elements and with these fears regarding the issue of postal services, we will therefore abstain on the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because I am climbing into the gallery that my speech will be much longer than that of my fellow Members. It just seems easier to me to talk. I would like to intervene to say that at first sight this bill seems good. Who could be against a more independent regulator? However, the moment I started reading the bill, I got more and more reservations. I said this in committee too. In the end, we voted against it. What still bothers me, Mr Dedecker, is that you are talking about the creeping politicisation of the regulator. When you talk about sneak-in politicisation, I think that the division of powers is a sneak-out politicisation. In my view, it is absolutely not right for a government to have a minister responsible for BIPT and at the same time for Belgacom and bpost. You will tell me that this also applied to Minister Daems at the time. The cabinet is logically composed of people who were seconded from the BIPT. At the same time, people from Belgacom and bpost are also present in that cabinet. In the context of independence, it must be possible to demonstrate in principle that there is...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If this is the way to achieve independence, I believe that the major mistake was made in the division of powers in this government. That's fundamental. When I look at the draft law before me, I find that Minister Van Quickenborne proposed the same thing at the time. However, the opinion of the Council of State was negative at that time. Also today, the Council of State says that the changes to Article 15 are not necessary according to the European Commission. You are always talking about fighting with the European Commission. However, you must read the opinion of the Council of State. As far as ex ante controls are concerned, the present draft does not provide an adequate response to the European Commission's comments. What bothers me is that this text reads that the opinion of the Council of State is being followed in its entirety. That's not true. A second element has already been mentioned by Mrs Lalieux and concerns postal services. Nowhere in the European Commission's texts does it say that this legislation should also apply to postal services. So I will not dwell on my fundamental question as to why this monitoring of postal services is actually being lifted, where neither the European Commission nor other bodies have invoked it. The answer was that no distinction could be made. If I look at the energy sector and the like, then we should actually go along with the measures taken there, including on regulators and independence. I would like to stress once again that our group will not vote against because we are opposed to a more independent regulator. Absolutely not. I cannot, however, accept that the government does not seem to have a problem with the division of powers and has not taken into account the fundamental comments made by the Council of State. That is why we will vote against, not at all because we are opposed to a more independent regulator.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u89	Mr Geerts, you are referring to something with which you clearly have a problem, namely that the Minister responsible for telecommunications is now also responsible for public companies Belgacom and bpost. When I listen to your speech, it seems to me that this is all the more reason to strengthen the independence of the BIPT in all confidence in the Minister. It is all the more reason to avoid that the Minister who is also responsible for Belgacom and bpost themselves could take initiatives to suspend certain decisions and impose priorities on BIPT, which could undermine other matters than a lack of resources. Your plea is in favour of a reinforcement of the BIPT. I can, of course, agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u90	That is true, but ultimately we are producing legislation here that I do not think is good legislation. The essence of the problem in the context of dependence lies in the fact that within the government the same minister is responsible for BIPT and Belgacom and bpost. The fundamental point remains. You also know that, according to the rules of the European Commission, you should put a Chinese wall between the two. This is purely legislative, I am not saying that it is. I think this is a more fundamental discussion than what we want to do here today. Once again, an independent regulator is important, but we cannot be asked to approve the law before us, certainly not on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State. If we were to do this, we would have absolutely poor opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency has been requested by the government on the grounds that the European Commission would open infringement proceedings against Belgium if the possibility for the government to suspend decisions of the IBPT and the obligation to submit the strategic plan for government approval remained entrenched in the law as regards the telecommunications sector. The conclusion of the opinion of the Council of State of 5 February 2015 states: "Since then, taking into account the various elements implemented by the European Commission, and in particular those relating to the interdependence of the tasks of a regulatory authority, the draft provision may be accepted in so far as it aims to repeal the supervisory review of the IBPT's decisions on electronic communications." The Council of State goes on to say: "Even if the European Commission has not so far expressly pronounced itself on this issue, the reasoning followed by it may justify that the legislator also considers it necessary to repeal the supervisory review of the IBPT's decisions relating to postal services." The cdH group therefore supports the telecommunications aspect of this bill, but would have liked to have taken the time for reflection before establishing the independence of the IBPT in the field of postal services, especially since the European Commission did not impose it. For the CDH, it is also essential that universal service and respect for social standards be preserved in the field of postal services. Thus, we agree with the conclusion of the Council of State's opinion on the independence of the regulator, but we would have liked to have had all the guarantees regarding respect for universal service. Therefore, our group will abstain from voting on this bill as it did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another step in the process of liberalization. The text refers to the application of directives which organise market opening for the benefit of businesses and consumers. If business benefits are clear, this is far from the case for consumers. Indeed, if we take stock of all the sectors that have been liberalized in recent years or even a few decades, we find that service has decreased as the price increases. Here, more specifically, the removal of the government's oversight over the IBPT is organized. This means that if the IBPT violates the law or hurts the public interest, the government is disarmed and can no longer do anything. This is a rather surprising divestment of the power of the state. Another aspect concerns the strategic plan, which must no longer be approved by the government. I knew government responsibility. Here, I note that government responsibilities are being organized and that the strategy is something that the government is not interested in. Finally, this raises a democratic question. Mr. Dedecker said he was happy to see depoliticization. It is true that there are politicizations which exasperate us but, in this case, when we talk about depoliticisation, it is, let us not be mistaken, a democratic dispossession! We note that this additional step towards liberalisation is a democratic hold-up, since it is the European Commission, which is not elected, that is calling Belgium to court, with a great deal of opacity as regards the documents it has communicated to the government. The European Commission is already going very hard on liberalisation. The government adds a layer because it goes beyond what it asks! It is quite challenging, but I am not surprised by this very right-wing government. I would remind you that in the current social movement, there are four breaking points for trade unions. Two of them were mentioned earlier, pension and pre-pension and index jump. The third is the attack on public services. The government is very strong in this area and today it is surfing beyond what is imposed by the European Commission. It is clear that the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u93	Thank you for all your comments. As mentioned above, the European Commission had brought proceedings before the European Court of Justice. That procedure was temporarily suspended pending the pending draft law. The intention of the draft law is to strengthen the independence of BIPT in line with my policy statement. In essence, it concerns two elements: the fact that the government can no longer remove decisions from the regulator and the fact that the strategic plan can no longer be affected. The only form of supervision, which is preserved, is the responsibility of BIPT to the representatives of the people. I am a little surprised that there is so little enthusiasm among some about giving Parliament an additional power here and reducing power to the government. I had expected a little more enthusiasm. That may have been a little utopian. Some people ask why we do the same for the postal sector. It is correct that the Commission did not comment on this, but the Council of State says that there is no problem in following the same reasoning for postal services. So I do not see why we should not, especially since the Council of State has no objection to this. I decide. The masks fall off: some parties prefer that a regulator cannot work independently. I think that is the conclusion of the debate. We are in favour of a free market, which can function completely freely. In order for them to function freely, one needs a regulator that can be completely independent. I note that some still seem to remember the period in which politics was able to intervene in the telecoms market. That's a bad thing. We want to take a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u94	Minister, to respond to your last words, I have made it clear that our group is in favour of greater independence from the regulator. You say that the report to Parliament is being called into question. I would point out that the government has chosen to make one minister responsible for BIPT and for public companies bpost and Belgacom. In your opinion, some people would recall the government's influence on the decision-making process of public companies and regulators, but just as this measure proves that the government is also converting that dream into practice. Then you can't shoot the opposition. It is this government, which has put two powers under one head, that is its responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u95	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (875/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (875/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u98	In accordance with Article 1 of the Law of 13 August 1990 setting up a Committee for the Evaluation of the Law of 3 April 1990 on the Rejection of Pregnancy, amending Articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and repealing Article 353 of the same Code, the Chamber should propose the members of the National Evaluation Committee to terminate pregnancy. Pursuant to article 1 of the Act of 13 August 1990 on the establishment of an evaluation committee of the Act of 3 April 1990 on termination of pregnancy, amending articles 348, 350, 351 and 352 of the Criminal Code and repealing article 353 of the same Code, the Chamber must make a presentation of the members of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy. In view of Article 23 of the Law of 6 January 2014 amending various laws as a result of the reform of the Senate, it is no longer the Senate but the Chamber that is competent to nominate the members of that Committee. Having regard to section 23 of the Act of 6 January 2014 amending various Acts as a result of Senate reform, this jurisdiction falls to the House and not to the Senate. The Senate has already announced four calls in the Belgian State Gazette (20 February 2013, 18 July 2013, 4 November 2013, 13 January 2014) but so far there are not enough candidates to propose a double list. The Senate has already published four calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor (20 February 2013, 18 July 2013, 4 November 2013 and 13 January 2014), but to date there are still insufficient candidates to present a double list. The Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015 proposed that, in view of the time-limit which has now expired and given that the Chamber is now competent to nominate the members of the Committee, the procedure should begin again. As the deadline has expired and the House is now competent to present the members of the commission, the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015 proposed to resume the procedure. The committee shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors of medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and supervision of women in an emergency. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are medical professors at a Belgian university; - four members are professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles responsible for the reception and guidance of women in distress. They shall be designated on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of the committee. They shall be designated on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters within the competence of the Commission. The committee has nine women and seven men. There are nine women and seven men in the Commission. Members shall be appointed from a double list by the Chamber in accordance with linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Members shall be appointed, with due regard for linguistic parity and pluralistic representation, on a double list submitted by the Chamber. Candidates who have not been appointed as full members shall be appointed as alternate members. The mandate of the current members expired on 30 November 2013. The term of office of the current members expired on 30 November 2013. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015 and 4 March 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Applications shall be submitted no later than 30 days after publication of the call. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015 and 4 March 2015, a call for candidates will be published in the Belgian Monitor. Applications must be submitted no later than 30 days after the publication of the appeal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u99	In accordance with Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 18 March 1935 on the approximation of the laws relating to the establishment and operation of the Deposit and Consignation Cash, as amended by the Law of 6 January 2014, the Chamber should appoint two representatives of the people as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Deposit and Consignation Cash. Pursuant to article 5 of the Royal Decree of 18 March 1935 coordinating the laws relating to the organization and operation of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, as amended by the Act of 6 January 2014, the Chamber must appoint two deputies as members of the Supervisory Commission of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. In addition to the two MPs, the Commission consists of the first President of the Court of Auditors and two members appointed by the King. In addition to the two Members, the Commission is composed of the first President of the Court of Auditors and two members appointed by the King. The members of the Commission shall be appointed for a term of six years. The members of the Commission shall be appointed for a term of six years. On 31 December 2012, Ms Veerle Wouters' mandate as a member of this Commission expired. Ms Veerle Wouters' term as a member of the Commission expired on 31 December 2012. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, I propose to renew the mandate of Mrs Veerle Wouters as a member of the Supervisory Committee at the Deposit and Consignation Cash and to appoint as a second member Mr Stéphane Crusnière, proposed by the PS Group. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 February 2015, I propose to renew the term of office of Mrs Veerle Wouters as a member of the Supervisory Commission of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations and to appoint as second member Mr Stéphane Crusnière, proposed by the PS Group. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. As no other applications have been submitted, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Consequently, I declare Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Stéphane Crusnière elected members of the Supervisory Board of the Deposit and Consignation Cash. Since there are no other candidates, there shall be no ballot in accordance with rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore declare Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Stéphane Crusnière elected as a member of the Supervisory Commission of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u100	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u101	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration on 25 February 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 25 February 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 022/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 022/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u102	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 25 February 2015. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 25 February 2015. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 02/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Sophie Wilmès and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 021/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Jan Penris; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters, Mr Sophie Wilmès and Mr Wilmès. Luk Van Biesen and Eric Van Rompuy. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u103	Mr President, in the absence of my colleague, I would like to clarify the motion. The theme concerns us all, namely the transfers from Flanders to Wallonia. These are transfers that have not dried up to this day. On the contrary, they get bigger every day. What we are proposing in this motion is the most obvious proposal that we can make, in particular that an investigation should be carried out by the administration, the government, into the historical and current flows of funds between the regions. It is only when we have been able, objectively and hopefully neutrally, to determine the size of these flows by the public authorities and to know the mechanisms that ultimately lead to these flows that we will also be able to put an objective and neutral end to the flow of money and its phasing-out. The motion therefore seeks to instruct the administration to carry out an investigation into the flows of money between the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u104	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 89 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (630/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (630/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (875/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (875/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-05-54-plenair-ip033x.u107	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 March 2015. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 12 March 2015. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation of the evening. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 March 2015 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 March 2015, at 2.15 p.m.
