ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u1	Questions No 2449 by Mr Denis Ducrame and No 2719 by Mr Sebastian Pirlot are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u2	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the sixth reform of the State provides for the transfer of the interuniversity centres of attraction to the Communities at the end of phase VII of their programming – that is in 2017 – and specifies that in order to facilitate the transition, the transfer will go hand in hand with a cooperation agreement between the Communities. This reform has been imposed on a sector that constantly exposes its dangers for the future of research in our country, starting with the risk of brain drain. Calls were made to reconsider the implementation of this transfer. According to what I read in the press, a petition gathered some 17,000 signatures, including the majority of university rectors. On March 3, the Senate organized a symposium bringing together high-level scientists and the six ministers of scientific research from our country around the future of these poles of excellence. Not a single minister was present, not even you, while the interuniversity poles of attraction still belong to the federal. Scientific research is obviously not supported or even listened to. It's dismaying. Madam Secretary of State, that leads me to ask you a few questions. Were you represented at this conference? Have you at least been aware of the concerns expressed by the scientific world? If so, what follow-up will you give? Finally, are you considering a consultation with the sector concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, the communications, surveys and presentations on the interuniversity poles of attraction (PAI), one of the cornerstones of the financing of fundamental research, do indeed require a word of explanation. Thank you, therefore, for asking the question. The clarification that I wish to make is based on the institutional agreement of the sixth reform of the State, the so-called "Paillon Agreement", which contains the various provisions relating to this reform. My mission and duty as Secretary of State involve the strict implementation of these provisions. The sixth reform of the State is defined and will be implemented. The provisions for IAPs will not be derogated from. I would like to remind you briefly of the provisions of the Butterfly Agreement concerning IAPs. At the end of phase VII, IAPs will be transferred to the Communities in 2017. This transfer will go hand in hand with a cooperation agreement between the Communities. As of 2018, an allocation will be granted annually to the French Community and the Flemish Community, the basic amount of which will be EUR 18 million for the Flemish Community and almost EUR 14 million for the French Community. From 2019 this basic amount will be indexed. The public authority has a competent administration which enjoys operational autonomy. This allows the administration to organise actions to support its own activities, respecting the separation between operational and political levels. The symposium on 3 March 2015 was organised by BELSPO on an autonomous basis, without consultation with the firms. However, the name of my colleague and my colleague were well on the invitation, which proves that we would have been informed in advance of the conference. Unfortunately, the invitation was sent to the wrong address. In addition, on the same day I had a long hearing in Parliament. The objectives of the colloquium are therefore beyond my control. Was it an informative event for researchers, or was it a symposium calling into question the decisions of the Sixth State Reform on scientific policy? In any event, its purpose was not clear. According to my many contacts with researchers, the concern about IAPs is often based on incomplete or even erroneous information. Both in budgetary terms and in terms of the continuity of research, the risks are limited. On the budgetary front, transfers to the Communities are settled by law. I would also like to point out that, as of 2019, the annual PAI allocations for the Communities will be indexed. This is also laid down by law. By way of comparison, I would also like to mention in this regard that in proceeding in this way, the IAP budget is completely exempt from the savings measures which were necessary for other basic allocations of the Federal Science Policy. In terms of continuity of research management, the risks are also limited. For the time being, scientific policy and innovation are already largely within the competence of the Communities and Regions. The transfer of responsibilities for IAPs to the Communities therefore entails only limited risks. The Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek already manages several programmes with colleagues from the Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique. The conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the two institutions to ensure that IAPs are managed in the future is therefore perfectly feasible. On the basis of the above, it is clear that a cooperation agreement between the French and Flemish Communities is necessary to ensure the successful continuation of the IAPs. Actions to this end will be launched. As Secretary of State for Federal Science Policy, my responsibility for IAP lies essentially at the level of the organization, specifically the organisation of the consultation that should lead to the cooperation agreement. The competent bodies of the Communities shall be responsible for the substantive consultation on how the IAP resources will be invested. This division of labour is in line with the decisions of the Sixth State Reform. In addition, IAP reform is part of a broader political vision. The Federal Science Policy will therefore continue to develop as a platform for consultation between the two Regions. At the same time, fundamental innovations will also be made as announced in my policy statement. A plan will thus be drawn up for enhanced and sustainable cooperation between federal scientific institutions (FSEs) and Belgian universities. This plan will support both basic research within universities and the specific missions of FSEs. Its main objective is to create synergy between universities and FSEs, thus enabling new forms of cooperation and new efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u4	Thank you, Minister. Could you repeat the amounts that the federal government will allocate to the various Communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u5	You can receive the text if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u6	For the Flemish Community: EUR 17,074,421. For the French Community: EUR 13 910 617.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u7	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your detailed answer. I hope that the break-up of skills will not harm research in Belgium and I count on you to ensure continuity in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the forces involved, I propose that you allow Mrs Claerhout to put her three questions on agenda items 4, 11 and 12 because she must join another committee. Would Mr Cheron agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u9	So be it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, before I begin, I would like to say that today I will ask four questions about the federal scientific institutions. The coalition agreement provides for an ambitious reform of federal science policy. You have taken on the important and necessary task of accompanying the reform. We fully support you in this. My questions must be placed in that context. After all, there are still a number of concerns and uncertainties which I would like to raise, with the aim of pushing the reform process forward. My first question concerns recruitment in the federal scientific institutions. On 18 December 2014, a letter containing measures in the area of federal personnel monitoring was adopted. The letter contains budgetary prudence measures after December 2014 and includes, inter alia, a recruitment halt. During budgetary control, a monitoring will be submitted to the Council of Ministers, assessing the risk of appropriations being exceeded. It has a negative impact on the functioning of the federal scientific institutions, including those with their own resources for recruitment. In that context, I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary of State. What is the impact on the federal budget of recruitment through own resources? Do you think it would be appropriate to ask for an exception in the budgetary control procedure for recruitment by means of own resources from the federal scientific institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u11	Mrs Claerhout, the recruitment of staff who are paid out of their own resources is, of course, budgetaryly neutral. However, we have to make the nuance that some of our own revenues have a non-reccurent character, or to a greater or lesser extent bring a certain uncertainty about the effective realization. It is also logical that, because of the specific budgetary situation of the federal government, the recruitment of staff should be handled with great care. Nevertheless, any institution may request a punctual deviation. Where necessary, therefore, I will take initiatives to obtain this derogation from the Minister of the Budget and the Minister of Civil Service. In a number of specific cases, such a derogation has already been applied for and obtained. It is true that my fellow Members in charge of the Budget and the Civil Service are currently working to amend the letter in question. However, this adjustment still needs to be discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as I said earlier, the coalition agreement provides for an ambitious reform of federal science policy. One of the objectives is to save on administration and overhead costs. The federal scientific institutions will gain more autonomy and become more independent. Nevertheless, there remains a major need for shared support from the institutions in the area of, for example, legal expertise in procurement. There has also been talk that part of the staff of the central administration of BELSPO should work at the federal scientific institutions. There is some concern about all these plans, hence my next questions. What next steps do you consider necessary to reform BELSPO for the better? What calendar do you have in mind? When did you inform BELSPO and Mr Delcourt of your decision to appoint BELSPO's temporary president? For which support services and in what way do you see an opportunity to organise them jointly? On what criteria will this allocation be made to the federal scientific institutions? Will the needs of the institutions be at the forefront of this? I also had a question about the IUAPs, but since you have just answered, I will not ask that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, I am looking here at the prepared answer to your question No. 3665. I suspect, however, that you have just asked your question. Thirty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u14	That's right. Debates of the European Parliament 3667, my next question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u15	Was that a combined question?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u16	There is a problem with item No. 9. Debates of the European Parliament 3667 by Mrs Claerhout was merged with two interpellations. Mrs Claerhout, I actually gave you the floor for your question. 3665 under item No. 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u17	What question should I ask first?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u18	Your question that's on the table under point 11. Debates of the European Parliament 3565.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u19	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, please excuse me. So it is my question about savings in the federal scientific institutions? [[Assent]] Madam Secretary of State, the linear savings and the recruitment stop weigh heavily on the federal scientific institutions. The staff envelopes of the various institutions were established years ago and are no longer necessarily in line with the current tasks and needs. The first budgetary control increased the allowances of the Royal Muntschouwburg, the National Orchestra and the Palace of Fine Arts. There could be a redeployment of unexploited funds from the space pool. Madam Secretary of State, which institutions do you think are most affected by linear savings and the recruitment stop? Are you planning short-term redeployments within the science policy envelope? Will you update and review the staff envelope of the various federal scientific institutions? If yes, by what method of calculation and with what calendar? What additional resources could you have set aside for the federal scientific institutions in budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Claerhout, as far as the impact of budgetary control on the Royal Muntschouwburg, the National Orchestra of Belgium and the Palace of Fine Arts is concerned, I do not have the authority to reply to you because these institutions are not within my political competence. I would therefore ask you to address this question to the relevant federal minister. My further answer will therefore focus on the federal scientific institutions and the space pole that do belong to my competence. The savings and recruitment stop are linear, so it is impossible to answer this question as it would be too far-reaching an interpretation of the question. However, I would like to take this opportunity to correctly frame the savings on the federal scientific institutions. The linear savings have been recalculated as a result of budgetary control. This showed that the amounts allocated to the initial 2015 budget were too low in the correct application of the savings measures. Consequently, a recurrent increase of EUR 649 000 is now being implemented in budgetary control, without prejudice to the determined savings path. The total amount allocated to the federal scientific institutions thus amounts to EUR 41 422 000 compared to the initially budgeted amount of EUR 40 773 000. If we want to give a correct picture of the size of the savings, we need to compare them with the actual expenditure of 2013. The 2014 achievements are not yet known. In 2013, the institutions spent EUR 41 947 000. If we compare this with the figures after the 2015 budgetary control, which is EUR 41 422 000, we note that this represents a reduction of 1.25 %. Within the Science Policy PPS, as a result of budgetary control, credit requirements were re-assessed. In my budget proposal, which is still to be approved by Parliament, I also provided for EUR 11 260 000 for one-off investment appropriations for projects in the federal scientific institutions. In other words, we ask that the institutions deal more efficiently with their recurrent donations. On the other hand, there are clear, one-off investments that are part of their self-employment process. I would also like to say that I have ensured that the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences will also receive a recurrent increase of EUR 550 000 from 2015. This increase is going to keep the research vessel de Belgica going. As far as the recruitment stop is concerned, I have already replied to you. The staff envelopes of the various federal scientific institutions will indeed be revised, following the reform of the Science Policy PPS. This dossier is now in full preparation and therefore I cannot give you a concrete answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this clarification. For the functioning of the federal scientific institutions, it is very important that the ratio of 11 million to the various institutions be clarified quickly. That must be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, the context of this question is very clear and I am going to skip the introduction. It's about the plans for a new museum of contemporary art. The collection is currently largely closed. It talks about the Vanderborght building and the Citroën building. Each government should focus on its core tasks. Culture is a Community competence and for some institutions located in Brussels it is a federal residual competence. You rightly note in your policy paper that not the shell but the collection is important. Any relocation should be based on a long-term financial plan. You are in favour of putting the collection of modern and contemporary art back in the Museum of Fine Arts at the Kunstberg in the heart of Brussels. In that museum, a considerable area has been vacant for almost ten years, pending a decision and the necessary renovation equipment. I have a few specific questions about this. Where and when will the valuable federal collection of modern and contemporary art be exhibited again? Is there room in Brussels for two museums for modern art? How will you bridge the difference in vision between the federal government and the Brussels-Capital Region? What are your ambitions regarding these vacant spaces and extensions? How can this space be valorized? What is the estimate of the lost rental income of this vacant position? Have you already contacted your colleague responsible for the Management of the Buildings on the MSK's renovation files?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u23	Mrs Claerhout, you have well summarized the problem of the collection of modern and contemporary art of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium. It is a pity that the collection hasn't been on display for four years, unless in small changing sets. It is my view that much more of this collection should be shown to the visitors, moreover in the buildings of the KMSKB. If we do not do so, we will create a fragmentary image of the collection of contemporary and modern art and thus cut it off from art in the historical periods. Also in the context of cost control, it is my belief that we should not create new museums, especially since there is space available in the so-called extensions in the KMSKB. I already mentioned the idea of integration with Minister Jambon and the Government of the Buildings in December 2014. On January 14th I visited the KMSKB and I did an extensive tour through the building so that I can now form a good picture of the rooms. The integration study was then requested. On 2 April, the first working meeting took place with my cabinet and the cabinet of Minister Jambon, the Government of the Buildings and the KMSKB. The management will be able to make this feasibility and cost study available by the end of October 2015. So it all takes some time. If this is positive, the realization will be relatively quick because the structure of the building is quite good. For economic reasons, it is also obvious to re-enable the unused or unused spaces of the museum in the visitor's course. I believe that plans aimed at external locations will be much more expensive in terms of infrastructure and operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u24	About the plans of the Brussels-Capital Region to create a museum in the Citroën building, I would just like to inform you that, according to specialists, the building is unsuitable for the exhibition of works of art, as long as no major and therefore expensive renovation works can be carried out. In my opinion, the federal collection of modern and contemporary art can best be exhibited at the KMSKB in order to exploit its full potential.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this overview. I wish you every success in achieving this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 3010 by Mrs De Coninck has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u27	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I introduced this question on 16 March, but since then a lot of water has flowed under the bridges. I will update it somewhat in relation to what I would initially write. According to information that has come to us and that has since been relayed by the press, it seems that your firm has resorted, in particular in January 2015, to a lawyer's office, the Lydian office. Can you confirm this information and tell us on the basis of which procedure it was designated? Moreover, it seems that among the tasks entrusted to these lawyers are the revision of the files transmitted by your Science Policy PPS (BELSPO). How do you explain this practice? Was this choice linked to a particular mistrust of BELSPO's services? If so, on the basis of what concrete elements could this mistrust have established? At the very least, shouldn't this mission be the responsibility of your firm? It is quite surprising to use a paid private office to check the records of its own administration. On the other hand, it seems that many benefits are linked to Mr Mettens at a time when you only met him once. What did these legal services correspond to at the time? I say "at the time" because, as the press has told us since then, Mr Mettens assigned you on 10 March 2015, of war weary, it is said, before the court of first instance in Brussels for you to carry out the evaluation that was to take place; his mandate expired on 7 April and you were probably staying without following up on his appeals for evaluation. What did these benefits relate to Mr. Mettens? Could you tell us whether, before January and since February, you again had recourse to the Lydian firm? In other words, did there still be benefits in 2014 or March or April 2015 and therefore billings? Have you requested this office for other missions? If so, which ones? Finally, what is the total amount of the benefits of this office of lawyers for your firm since the beginning of the legislature and on what credits have you paid or intend to pay them? In the meantime, there has been a media coverage of the "Mettens case", i.e. the non-renewal of the president of the Science Policy PPS. On 18 April, at 1:00 p.m., you indicated that you had appealed to this private office because Mr. Mettens had assigned you. You said it was good management and you were preparing Mr Mettens' assessment. But this was an assignment of March 10, 2015 and I'm talking about January 2015 benefits. That same 18 April, at 7:30 p.m. on the evening news, one of your collaborators replied to Mr.Imad Messoudi, a journalist at RTBF, that these invoices had been cancelled. Therefore, do you confirm the cancellation of the Lydian office invoices? If so, why? Who were they addressed to? Why would a company make the gift of canceling invoices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u28	Mr Delizée, I confirm that Lydian's law firm has provided advice in response to questions raised in the context of the implementation of the government agreement. As you know, I must work to remove the Science Policy PPS. It is therefore proof of good management to examine the various legal possibilities before deciding these issues. Lydian was also consulted to defend the interests of the State in the context of an interim measure which Mr Mettens initiated because of the non-renewal of his mandate as President of the Science Policy PPS. I cannot at the moment encrypt their intervention, since I have not yet received all the invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, these are very partial answers. I will come back to the subject, since I have a specific question about the non-renewal of the mandate of the Chair of the PPS Federal Science Policy and the element of good management related to this issue. I repeat that the first assignment was dated March 10, 2015 and that Lydian's performance of Mr.Mettens began at least in January 2015. It was before we knew there would be a subpoena. You may not have all the bills yet, but maybe you have the ones from February-March?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u30	I don't have all the bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u31	I understand that this subject is delicate and creates embarrassment. Even if, at the end of this question, it is said that the incident is closed, I have the feeling that the incident is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, the Royal Archives were founded in 1962, at the time of King Baudouin, and form part of the National Archives. It belongs to the King's cabinet and is located in one of the buildings of the Royal Palace, but the administration is in the hands of the National Archives. In fact, you have recently visited the Ghent department. Following a statement by Professor Van Goethem, some uncertainty has arisen about the royal archives. I quote: To save money, the Palace will always try to make the people who work in the palace pay by the government. The archivist of the Royal Archives is a very interesting figure. There the person and the institution form one whole and there is a dispute about who the archivist will pay. At the moment, the National Archives do so, but this institution sometimes flutters and actually wants to pay for half-time employment, while the archivist works full-time." First of all, who's paying the archivist? Does that happen through the royal donation, or does the National Archives vouch for this? What budgets are entered on which budget lines? Secondly, what is the job description and what is the workload of the person concerned? Is this a task for which full-time employment is necessary? Thirdly, when does the contract for the appointment of a full-time archivist date? Who made that decision and based on what data? What does the financing agreement say? Fourthly, how will you evaluate the function and how will you address the dossier, including, of course, funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u33	Mr Dedecker, the statutory archivists of the National Archives working in the Royal Palace's archives are paid for by the staff envelope of the National Archives. The annual budgetary burden is 114 446 euros. The terms of reference of the archivists are similar to those of all the state archivists. They shall be responsible for the acquisition, material management, access, provision and valorisation of the archives managed. The core task of the archivists is to facilitate scientific research. For the management of 3 000 metres of archive material, 50 000 photographs and 4 000 maps and plans, a 0.8 FTE operation is largely inadequate. A significant proportion of archive files which are in principle accessible over 50 years of age are not accessible according to current standards. In 2014, 318 visits were registered by the Service and 2 200 documents or files were consulted. Since the early 1960s, a full-time national archivist has been seconded to the Royal Palace. Since 1 December 2013, the employment rate has been reduced to 0.1 FTE. The secondment was formalized in an agreement dated 8 January 1964 concluded between the Government and the Grand Marshal of the Court, Mr André Schöller. The purpose of the agreement was to make the archives available for scientific research. As regards funding, it was agreed that the National Archives would take on the salary of the scientific staff and equipment for the preservation of the archives. The technical staff in charge of the service would be paid by the Royal Palace. As far as the future of cooperation is concerned, I believe that cooperation should continue in the interests of research. However, there are grounds for updating the agreement, which is 50 years old, in order to modernise the service. I will ask the general archivist to look together with the head of the King's cabinet to see how the cooperation can be optimized.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u34	I have one more question, Madam Secretary of State. Maybe I heard something wrong. You said the employment rate was reduced to 0.1 FTE. I guess I got that wrong. What is it right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u35	0.8.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u36	At first you said 0.8, but a little further I understood 0.1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u37	No, it's 0.8.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u38	I must have misunderstood. 0.8 appears to be insufficient. It seems to me to be a strange statement made by Professor Van Goethem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u39	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to start with a small incise. Previously, as part of the IAPs, you mentioned the Butterfly Agreement. The Butterfly government comprised six parts in the previous legislature. The institutional agreement was made to eight and it is not the Butterfly agreement. Since I am a historian and this is part of high-quality scientific research, I wanted to highlight this historical trait. The Butterfly agreement is not the agreement of six of the government but eight. It's very different. You said you agreed with Butterfly, it's not true. I know some people used to call it that, but it's not true. This Butterfly Agreement, which, I suppose, referred to a famous butterfly, was the government's six-part agreement. There were eight parties to the institutional agreement. I'm closing the parenthesis. I will probably one day write a doctoral thesis on this subject if the IAPs survive. In the government agreement – I'm talking about this government, the one that some call the De Wever government, but that's not true, it's the Michel government – it says that "the Polar Secretariat will adopt the structure of an international non-profit organization in which the States Parties maintain a majority interest in management". Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me what is the status of the implementation of this international ASBL announced in partnership with the Polar Foundation? It seems that our country has started discussions with Switzerland to study Bern's entry into this international ASBL. Is that correct? What is the status of the negotiations? In addition, the director of the International Polar Foundation, Mr. Hubert, reported in the press – I discover this because I am a newspaper reader – potential new projects. This includes the extension of the station and the runway for large carriers. We know the quite exciting reality of this polar station, which, I repeat here, makes our country famous given the stakes it represents. These projects aim to increase the efficiency, efficiency and reputation of the Polar Station. What is your position on these? Finally, before Easter, when I tabled my question, the relations between Mr. Alain Hubert and Mr. Philippe Mettens, at the time Director of Federal Science Policy, still did not seem to be calmed. If they're tense enough, I think it's a recurrence at Mr. Mettens' house. What do you intend to do to put an end to this problematic situation? Without wishing to make an intentional link to my previous question, we can also read a statement by Mr Hubert that "some invoices submitted to the Belgian State have been unpaid for three years". It is true that this is a somewhat special status because we are in a legal situation where I assume that the use of public procurement, with all the rules on public procurement, may not be of the same application as for the State itself or other structure. What, then, is it really? Have you been able to shed light on this controversial issue for some time now? Indeed, the latter existed already before you arrived in the department. What explains this payment period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u40	Mr Cheron, the government agreement provides that the Polar Secretariat will take the form of an international non-profit association. It also provides that audits will be carefully reviewed in order to draw conclusions. My policy note presented in December outlined some elements of the change process. The polar station must be well managed. In consultation with the Director of the Polar Secretariat, work will be undertaken to improve the management structure. Depending on the results of this work, the process of redefining the structure would then be initiated. As planned, my firm is working in consultation with the Director of the Polar Secretariat on the optimizations of the current structure that will enable the station to be managed in a perfect and sustainable manner and, above all, the transparent use of public funds, since it is currently funded only by this means. A careful diagnosis is under development and is based on previous audits, developments, feedback from scientists and other Belgian and foreign interlocutors. New developments have emerged. Here is a non-exhaustive overview: - budgetary manipulation mentioned in the report of the Inspectorate of Finance; - inappropriate press communication on possible strategic developments of the polar station, while this decision is the responsibility of the Polar Secretariat and must be validated by the Secretary of State; - visit by German ministers to the polar station without the Polar Secretariat being informed immediately and formally as provided for in the agreements; - investments made by the International Polar Foundation without the conclusion of prior agreements. In the past, expenditures had been refused by the Finance Inspectorate. This refusal had been validated by the former government and definitively respected by the Foundation. The latter returned to its commitment after obtaining funding. These new elements must be and will be taken into account by future optimizations, whether in form or content. Similarly, for the sake of continuity, we take into account the possible shortcomings of our partner, the International Polar Foundation, whatever the reason. With regard to discussions with Switzerland to study the entry of Bern into the ISBL, meetings were held with Swiss officials at various levels. Both countries expressed their willingness to work together. However, this collaboration can take several forms, which depends above all on Swiss political will, all from the perspective of international collaboration, which is one of the major elements of the Antarctic Treaty. These discussions therefore reveal the following elements: 1. The Belgian-Swiss rapprochement is the initiative of Swiss researchers, one of whom is an honorary member of the International Polar Foundation. For a very short time now, the rapprochement has been the subject of discussions, particularly at the political level. 2. The collaboration seems to be oriented towards the establishment of Belgian-Swiss scientific projects or the logistical execution of Swiss programmes by the Polar Secretariat. Switzerland seems to want to release funding from 2017 for this type of collaboration, but political decisions still need to be taken. It is noted that this kind of collaboration already exists at the station via the Belgian scientific programmes and the Polar Secretariat. 3. The Polar Secretariat and the scientific programmes have informed the Swiss about the programmes they are currently working on. The Swiss must return to them, specify their interest or propose new projects. We are now waiting for their proposals. Mr. Hubert, Director of the International Polar Foundation, reported on potential new projects in the press. Personally, I find that such premature communications create false and unrealistic expectations for the scientific community. That said, the development of the polar station is important for its radiation and efficiency. However, the Polar Station projects must be approved by the Polar Secretariat and my green light. These decisions will depend on several parameters including environmental impact, priority, station filling rate, opening times of the station, etc. All this must be done in the most complete transparency and with respect for budgetary and internal processes, if there is agreement. Communication to the press is again inopportune, since it must be done in consultation with the Polar Secretariat, and should be based on firm decisions governing funding. All-embracing communications do a lot of harm to the polar station, to its image and to the image of our country. As far as the relations between Mr Hubert and Mr Mettens are concerned, the latter is no longer part of the Scientific Policy. So we will not get into this debate. Work is under way, which goes far beyond this conflict. Finally, endless decisions on unpaid invoices began three years ago, meaning that these invoices would be dated from 2011 and 2012 and would therefore fall under the authority of the past legislature. The payment tranches requested by the International Polar Foundation are divided into two groups. The first is the payments rejected by the Finance Inspectorate and closed by the formal commitment of the International Polar Foundation not to reconsider this decision, and the second is the payments refused by the Finance Inspectorate in the absence of clear justifications and answers, which is the case so far. Certain exhibits were not received until the end of February 2015. It should also be noted, and for information purposes, that for the payment of the 2014-2015 season that ended at the end of March 2015, the coins are under control and many expenses have not yet been justified by the International Polar Foundation. Our intention is, of course, not to penalize the Foundation, but to achieve perfect transparency in the use of public funds. So there will be no payment until we are sure that the public money has been properly spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you very sincerely for your consistent and reasoned response, which I believe – I do not think is naive – to be a sign of your investment in this area. I would simply like, on the occasion of my reply, to refer to Blaise Pascal, to the infinitely large and infinitely small. It seems to me that there are a lot of small things in this area, small conflicts, sometimes a little disproportionate to the station's infinitely large stake, its scientific and investment interest. For my part, I want to retain only the positive elements. I have the feeling that you are committed to this partnership with Switzerland, which is a country of exchange with Belgium, in every sense. You may have the opportunity to discuss various topics with the Swiss.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u43	Maybe it'll be win-win. I am thinking in particular of the question of tax evasion. This is the "sympathetic" side of our Swiss friends. But there are other subjects as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u45	If it could help us with a "sympathetic" whitening of the origin of the funds, it would allow us to make two blows with one stone. All this to say that this investment with Switzerland is a positive point. But it is also clear that good management requires full clarity in the management of the Polar Foundation, in all its dimensions. We can only hope that the rules will be followed when this foundation becomes an AISBL. But these rules will have to be clear. As I said earlier, from a legal point of view, a State, a municipality are subject to clear rules on public procurement, etc. We're probably in a blur that's lasted too long. It is now essential to shed light because it is from the settlement of these small things that we may have the satisfaction of having, for this country, a real ambition for an issue that deserves it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u46	Madam President, we are talking here about the actual content of the government's science policy. There was an opportunity to have extensive discussions during the discussion of the guidance note and then the policy note. In the course of these discussions, the Socialist Group expressed a number of considerations; it obviously does not adhere to the policy provided for in the government agreement. I wanted to point out that the petition ‘Save BELSPO' launched by two eminent glaciologists, a Dutch-speaking and a French-speaking, collected 17,000 signatures. There have been polemics about the identity of the signatories. The petition was devalued by saying that it was the Walloon pensioners and Dutch housewives. It was said that the Nobel Prize didn't know what he was signing. It is a little disrespectful for the many scientists, thousands, who supported this petition. It is in any case a message that has been sent to the Prime Minister and to you, Mrs Sleurs, who are in charge of the scientific policy of our country. This petition denounces your government's willingness to dismantle BELSPO and isolate federal scientific institutions from each other, to sausage the various institutions instead of keeping them in symbiosis. These announcements were not the only ones that led to incomprehension. Indeed, your project of inter-federal space agency is also unanimously criticized by all actors in the sector, both industrialists and scientists. So in general, it is ultimately your entire scientific policy that is directly challenged by those whom it concerns and which it directly impacts. My colleagues in the Socialist Group and I have therefore tried to understand what the government's intentions were based on. We have asked you at length about this and we have not really had an answer to our questions, hence the purpose and content of this inquiry. The only justification for these reforms presented in committee was a former press article which called into question the organisation of an exhibition in certain rooms of the Museum of Fine Arts which had experienced problems of humidity. You will agree that this is a relatively secondary problem. In short, to base your policy and this existential reform of our scientific policy, on the substance, no study, no expert opinion, no benchmarking, no quantitative demonstration, no presentation of structural problems, no audit, no opinion of the sectors concerned and above all no consultation. However, BELSPO is ISO 9001 certified, the centralisation of the support services of the federal scientific institutions has effectively reduced the budgetary costs, I will come back, the industrialists have consistently rejected the principle of a heavy and costly inter-federal agency, Belgium is experiencing one of the best returns on investments within the European Space Agency and the scientific world denounces and opposes in all national languages the measures that you have announced. If we add blind budget cuts to this, we can only see a systematic desire to weaken federal science policy in all its components. It is truly a will to dismantle and weaken. We therefore find it difficult to explain otherwise your policy, which has not been rationally justified so far. Madam Secretary of State, what value do you give to the complaints expressed in the petition ‘Save BELSPO'? What action have you taken? As far as I know, you haven't acted on it. How do you explain such disapproval of your vision of science policy? Finally, do you have objective elements, which are public and verifiable, to justify this reform? Are you planning at any time to discuss these reforms with the people involved, i.e. scientists, industry, officials of federal scientific institutions and others? More generally, do you think that science policy is a legitimate federal jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u47	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am very concerned about the recent developments in the BELSPO file and the research in general. Of course, there are the aspects that we have been seeing in recent weeks, but I will not overemphasize these disputes. I am not the only one concerned about the future of Belgian research. The world of research has indeed expressed itself, but there are also white maps, contacts and relations with researchers. From this point of view, I can only regret the fact that the current rector of the KUL has used so little critical or even scientific spirit! I'll take one example. Mr. Torfs, our former honourable senator, who is now rector, tells us that research is a 90% community competence. All right, except that's totally wrong! It is surprising, moreover, that scientific minds may be allowed to go, perhaps for reasons other than facts, to such considerations. Madam Secretary of State, if my calculations are correct, the federal state is now more than 46% involved in the public contribution. Perhaps some people confuse public and private contributions, which constitute the overall envelope of investment in research. I have to deal with institutional issues from time to time, and we are obliged to do so in this country; research is not an exclusive competence, it is a so-called parallel competence, that is, a level of power, in its own competence, can carry out research that concerns its own competences. In the current situation, the federal level remains, in figures, at 46%; of course, it is almost half of the appropriations. The federal level therefore remains a fundamental level of investment in research. Research therefore deserves much better than this political quarrel, which we have just witnessed. Research has long-term solutions for the economy, for the sustainable economy, for the environment, for climate, democracy and well-being. And it is through basic research policy that we will one day have tangible results in research and development of regional competences. Applied research, on the other hand, will never find a better investment than in basic research, the one that is essential to give free rein to creativity. In a country that owns one or the other Nobel Prize, I believe that the interest of fundamental research and innovation is no longer to be argued here. It is a source of culture, civilization, dream and hope for future generations. The approach that seems too utilitarian on your part, but I would like it to be denied by the facts, and the blurry surrounding the future of research cannot last. We need to know, within a short time, whether there will finally be a future for the research/investment landscape for Belgium and on the international stage. Uncertainties hover around the structure that will take over BELSPO's missions. I'm insisting on the missions. I've never confused the contents with the container. What about the missions? Will current research activities and programs be maintained? The overly strict budgetary rules, the blocking of recruitment, the conditions under which the empowerment of federal scientific institutions will take place, which is announced in your policy statement? Some predict the dismantling of Belgian scientific research. By undermining its coherence, strength and international visibility, we are already weakening it. So, Madam Secretary of State, we are asking you as soon as possible for details of the reform announced. What will become of BELSPO in practice? What does the concept of institutional empowerment cover? Can you assure us that the coherence of BELSPO's missions and activities will be maintained? What will happen, moreover, to those famous EUR 11 million that you have made available for investment expenditure in scientific institutions and which were announced during the budgetary control? Research actors need answers as quickly as possible. At a time when Europe is calling for more investment in scientific research and for cooperation between researchers, the government is not showing the positive direction at the moment and seems to be undermining the sector. It is therefore time to provide a clear and ambitious framework for this priority issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u48	Madam President, in the meantime I have heard my fellow Members. I do not think it is a question of whether federal science policy is important, because that is very important. Madam Secretary of State, I think you can see that as well. In any case, I have no indications of doubt. You're a researcher yourself. This is not, therefore, a question of dismantling or weakening federal science policy. Having said that, I do have some questions. Reforming is not easy, of course. The coalition agreement provides for an ambitious reform of federal science policy. One of the objectives of these reforms is also to save administration and overhead. The federal institutions will thus become more independent and autonomous. However, the federal scientific institutions still need shared support for legal matters, procurement and so on. It was also discussed that part of BELSPO's administration should start working at the federal scientific institutions. The institutions are concerned about all these elements. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you my specific questions. What steps do you consider necessary to reform BELSPO for the better? What timing do you see for that? When did you inform BELSPO and Mr Delcourt of your decision to appoint him temporary president of BELSPO? Which support services will you continue to organise jointly and on what basis? Do you have a visual on that yet? On what criteria will this allocation be made to the federal scientific institutions? Will the needs of these institutions be at the forefront of this? That is an important point for me. There have been attempts at reform in the past, and that has always been top-down. Will the needs of the institutions themselves be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u49	Mr Delizée, Mr Cheron, mevrouw Claerhout, thank you for your questions which allow me to clarify certain aspects concerning BELSPO. The petition you are referring to was launched in early December 2014 probably in response to the 9 October government agreement, the 12 November policy statement and my 8 December 2014 policy note. This petition submits the following sentence to potential signatories: "We ask you, Prime Minister and Minister, to reconsider your position by maintaining BELSPO and its missions, by strengthening federal scientific institutions and the synergies that exist between them and with universities and, on the contrary, by providing it with additional financial resources that can, in particular, meet the challenges set by this government: job creation and economic growth." This sentence repeats the following points: "review your position by keeping BELSPO and its missions." The amendments were endorsed by the government agreement and my role, as Secretary of State, is to carry out this objective with loyalty. Indeed, the fact that, in the context of the sixth reform of the State and subsequent provisions of the current government agreement, the inter-universal poles of attraction are integrated into an inter-federal space agency makes the revision of BELSPO's mission inevitable. Indeed, it is not possible both to transfer competencies and to maintain similar sections at the federal level. In this regard, I refer to my answers to the question put by Mrs Véronique Caprasse. Optimizing the operation of federal scientific institutions is a very fair concern that I share. That is why, recently, during the budgetary control, I was also able to release a single additional amount of EUR 11 million in addition to the regular budget in order to be able to achieve the planned modernisation of these establishments. To promote synergies between federal science institutions and universities, we are looking for a sustainable investment that represents added value for both FSEs and universities. Preparations for this innovation are under way. Finally, with regard to the additional financial resources, special efforts are being made, such as the 11 million for the ESFs, to which I shall return immediately. New investments will have to take into account both the available budget and the quality of the proposed project. However, I would like to point out in this respect that the technology sector is likely to create jobs and economic growth more quickly. But this sector is no longer within the federal government's jurisdiction. The "Save BELSPO" petition consisted of four parts, each expressing concern about the funding of scientific research in the modernized context of state reform. It is therefore logical that scientists, including Nobel laureate François Englert, have supported one or the other point of this complex form. I realize that reforms still raise questions and create uncertainty, but this should not paralyse the necessary measures. In addition, the petition issues a negative message, including the unilateral removal of BELSPO, while the government agreement expressly recognises the value of a federal science policy: "In order to achieve European R&D and innovation objectives, the government will focus on better political alignment with the regions in terms of research and public scientific service". I find it even more unfortunate how this form signed by scientists was used to maintain the BELSPO management body at all costs. In the world of research, scientists are at the centre, not the management body. They must be able to use support services, not the other way around. In Mr Cheron's inquiry, I understand his concern about whether or not to maintain a status quo with regard to federal science policy, but the scientific world is evolving at the speed of lightning. Many countries have great ambitions. Just think of India and China. They have certain advantages that we do not have. Let us consider the much larger number of scientists, who also receive much better training, whether abroad or not. As for their wage costs, they are well below ours. For this reason, the status quo must be outlawed. We must therefore follow suit on the road to a more modern and efficient scientific policy. In reply to Mrs Claerhout's first question, the main aim of the proposed reforms of the Science Policy PPS is to modernise and harmonise the federal scientific institutions so that they are adapted to the standards of the 21st century. I am therefore aiming for a new structure, in which responsibility and accountability are central. The transition from the tradition of a centrally-managed organization, which is today characteristic of the Science Policy PPS, to a more self-governing organization, is not about one night ice. In reply to Mrs Claerhout's second question, I have officially informed Mr Delcourt of my decision to appoint him as Chairman of the Science Policy PPS ad interim, following the publication of the decision of the Council of Ministers on this matter. The official appointment was also acted by ministerial decree, which was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 8 April 2015. On 7 April 2015, I officially informed the entire Science Policy PPS and all employees of the federal scientific institutions that Mr Mettens' mandate was terminated at midnight on 6 April 2015 and that Mr René Delcourt was appointed as Chairman ad interim from 7 April 2015. In addition, on 8 April 2015, I personally informed the Management Committee including the directors of the federal scientific institutions about the situation. I can confirm to you all that it was a very constructive meeting. Together, we will continue to work on the implementation of the coalition agreement. As regards the situation of the interuniversity attraction poles and the agreements with the Communities, I would like once again to refer to my answer to Mrs Caprasse's question. The independence of the FWI is based on the respective core tasks of the institutions. It is my objective to define, through a management agreement, the mandate, the resources and the expected results by institution or group of institutions. A number of audits and analyses are still ongoing. I hope to receive the results as soon as possible. However, I can state that my policy will give priority to a number of points which are frequently used by the scientific community itself. For reporting on each of the key tasks and the resources made available for them, I expect both scientific and financial reporting. For the evaluation, the reporting will be submitted to independent experts. The introduction of a generalised evaluation culture will increase the quality and impact of scientific activities. As far as internationalisation is concerned, modern science must dare to take on international scrutiny. After all, science is an international activity. Exchange and collaboration of scientists are very often quality-enhancing. In addition, the international context opens wider possibilities for one's own research. With regard to the consolidation and adjustment where necessary, any adjustments will not only be on the budget line itself but will also be on the associated programme performance plans and their management.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u50	It is my firm belief that constructive reforms will also strengthen the federal science policy administration. What support services will or will not be jointly organised is not yet under discussion. The next steps are now being taken. As far as the creation of the Interfederal Space Agency is concerned, it is my objective to have this round by the end of 2015, so that we can start in 2016. The inclination of the Science Policy PPS in a federal government will take place in the course of 2015. As for the independence of the FWI, the consultation with the respective FWI was initiated after the end of our analysis. I would also like to refute the criticism that there would be no consultation with scientists and the experts involved. As you may know, I myself have an academic background and I know the many scientific concerns of the field. Moreover, over the last few months, I have had a series of contacts with various actors. Let me give you a few examples. On 4 December 2014, we participated in the ESA Ministerial Conference in Luxembourg. I also had the opportunity to talk to several European space specialists. On 16 January 2015, I consulted the trade unions of the Belgian Science Policy. On 20 January 2015, I had an extensive consultation with the FWO and the FNRS, with arrangements for future contacts. The Federal Scientific Institutions have been extensively questioned and have been able to provide their input for the restructuring. I also invited all trade unions so that they could give their views on the Interfederal Space Agency. Contrary to what you claim, their messages were very positive and constructive. They are, however, unanimously concerned about insufficient manpower within the current Space Service. I have also ordered some audits for the federal scientific institutions, both internally and externally. As soon as the results are available, I will analyse them thoroughly. I insist that those concerned are first informed before these matters are made public. During the Easter recess I participated in the European Geosciences Union General Assembly in Vienna, where several ministers and European scientific institutions were present to discuss and reflect on the future of science policy in Europe. With regard to ISO 9001 certification, I must point out that the certificate merely indicates that the organisation concerned complies with the requirements of this standard. It is about general customer satisfaction and internal business processes. However, the ISO 9001 certificate does not guarantee a high quality product. The centralisation of overarching services has mainly resulted in the FWI no longer having an effective personnel service, financial service, legal service and communication service. Under pressure from a centralized authority, these decentralised services are underperforming in terms of their services to the FWI. With regard to Mr. Delizée's inquiry, the Government takes note of this petition and the framework without overestimating or underestimating its importance. The government reports to Parliament, which itself approved my policy statement and policy note. It already contains important answers. I would therefore like to refer to the wide-ranging debate we had on this subject on 10 February 2015 in the same committee. The changes that this government will still have to make are based, among other things, on the input of relevant actors, including space actors, ISFs, scientists and universities. Their input is evaluated both inside and outside. Reforms emanating from the field are in line with general European developments. In Chapter 5.3, the government statement confirms the importance of a federal science policy. It clearly indicates how federal science policy will be improved. It clearly identifies the main tasks of federal science policy. The fact that the federal science policy budget is divided into 118 different budget lines, "basic allocations" in technical terms, shows that the policy has spread and diluted over the years, which may be fatal for efficient and efficient functioning. In addition, many of these 118 budget lines are subdivided into subsections. The policy I intend to pursue is, therefore, the transition to the empowerment of ISFs, with the sole aim of strengthening them so that they can better respond to their federal scientific and social missions. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood from my reply that these reforms, even if they are necessary, are not easy to achieve. These reforms will take time. This leads me to certain aspects of Mr Cheron's inquiry. You will find the answer to a large part of these questions in three public documents: the government statement, the policy statement and my policy note. For example, what will happen to BELSPO in practice? The answer is simple and you can read it in the government agreement. As far as your question about EUR 11 million is concerned, they will not, contrary to what is often alleged, be withdrawn from space credits. Their current availability is the result of a complex accounting exercise with ESA carried out within the framework of the ESA Ministerial Conference of 4 December. These resources will be used for unique investments in federal scientific institutions (FSIs). These unique investments are closely linked to the priorities as identified by the FSEs themselves. This is also part of their empowerment. The purpose of these investments will soon be discussed with the ESF. The ESFs are involved and therefore have the right to be the first to be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, I am not sure I understood everything, but I thank you for your answers. I have the feeling that, in substance, we have a dialogue of the deaf. We don't understand each other. You tell us that you will execute the whole government agreement and this one alone. It's an option. You started by reading the text ‘Save BELSPO', which is the expression of the scientists who tell you that you are not taking the right path. Presumably, you do not take this into account, arguing that any necessary reform raises concerns and questions. You say that it is normal but that you will go forward by executing the agreement faithfully, loyally, completely and without thinking. I say that we take the problem backwards, that we should have started with consultation and dialogue, and then come to a decision. I continue to advocate this and I intend to table a motion for a recommendation, the first point of which is to put forward the consultation with the scientific world on the future of our federal scientific policy, in relation to that of the Regions and the Communities. You tell us that you have had contacts and that you have met untel and untel in a European meeting, as well as the trade unions. This is very good, but an organized and structured exchange is necessary, which does not seem to be the case. This exchange should have formed the policy that will be pursued over the next few years, and that will engage our country for the future. Our science policy is relatively effective. We have good returns on investments. We have good contacts with the industrialists, so we have a lot to lose if we do not take the right direction. I will make a suggestion. This dialogue and consultation can take place in different ways. Parliament, or even our committee, could, at the limit, if you agree, organise a reflection, a particular day, to be dealt with with with the order of business. This would give you the opportunity to bring together the industrialists, universities, academics and leaders of scientific institutions around the table on these topics. To do so would be transparent and dialogue and would perhaps provide answers to the questions and concerns you have raised, as well as insight into the policy you want to pursue. At the financial level, you are talking about EUR 11 million and say that autonomy will strengthen federal scientific institutions. We think that's the opposite. Today, support services are shared for all scientific institutions. If they each have to cover these operating costs, it will cost a lot more. This debate will show that, at the end of the day, operating expenditure is reduced to a strict minimum. With empowerment, there will be no more mutualization, no more common services, no more support services. All this will cost much more in proportion to each entity. In addition to this, Madam Secretary of State, the savings measures imposed by your government (- 4% in staff, - 20% in operation). It is true that you have an additional budget for one shot investments. But, if I understand correctly, these projects must be included in the government agreement or supported by you. These investments will therefore be a little à la carte. However, there will be less resources, which scientists are deeply concerned about, since this implies a drastic reduction in their resources, both in personnel and in operation. As far as the future of Belspo is concerned, things are not very clear. I will have to read your answer carefully. In conclusion, in addition to the motion for a recommendation that I have tabled – I do not know whether it will be read and whether it will, as I wish, be debated in plenary – I propose that you, Madam Secretary of State, hold a debate with the scientific institutions and industry sector on the policy that you intend to pursue and the reforms that you need to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u52	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I am reassured that I can leave this committee to tell the entire scientific community that everything is fine, that it is beautiful, that we have gone back, it would, in my opinion, be betraying the truth. I do not wish to start working with you, Madam Secretary of State, by lying, because that would not be correct or honest. You said that any reform would lead to uncertainty, which is true. Parties that generally propose new things know the reality of the often skeptical political world, and even of the population. In fact, nature hates the void and our societies are afraid of change. Having said that, understanding my inquiry as an expression of a will on my part of a status quo for BELSPO proves that you misunderstood me or saw things that are not there. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not interested in BELSPO's structure. Indeed, structures always disappear. You're going to tell me that this is also the case with the planet and you're probably right. Moreover, some speed up the process of its disappearance with a magnificent craze. My point is only to ask you questions about which I have not had an answer about this current structure that you do not like - we have understood it. This current structure fulfills missions and it's important! I didn't get an answer on that. I do not advocate the status quo, which I generally hate. I always take the example of a bike. There's nothing more dangerous than stopping by bike because we fall. We need movement! I think the movement is important and interesting, but you don't give us an objective or a purpose. That is why I believe that we are in a state of uncertainty today. Madam Secretary of State, it is obvious that when so many people sign a petition, they do not sign all the elements of the petition. But I still ask you to hear the malaise. There's a malaise, there's a problem! I'm going to table a motion. I am interested, intellectually, in seeing how the majority will be able to reject it. I know the fairly classic process of deciding on a simple and pure motion. It's too bad, but that's how it is. I'm going to tell you a few excerpts because I've been working scientifically on some elements that fit with what you've said. You have taken a look at the texts that, for you, are the most important, those of the government agreement and the declaration that you have made. I have based myself on this to ask you in a very simple way to define and announce as soon as possible the structure that we will have tomorrow in the landscape of Belgian federal scientific research. I would then ask for a more precise definition of the notion of the empowerment of the scientific institutions that you are announcing. Beyond the concept, what does that mean? I ask you to ensure that the research activities and programmes currently supported by BELSPO are maintained. You see that I am careful; I am leaving behind what BELSPO is doing and I say that we must ensure that activities and programs are maintained. I ask to maintain and guarantee the coordinating role played by BELSPO. The latter performs several tasks. At BELSPO there is today the capacity in the research and development landscape in Belgium to represent our country at the international level. I am thinking in particular of involvement in institutions such as the European Union, UNESCO or ESA. Some time ago, we were talking about this terrible and iconoclastic disaster that takes place between the Tiger and the Euphrates, in this cradle of humanity, where works of art are destroyed. BELSPO's expertise and added value are recognized by the scientific community. Finally, I ask that the transition from the current phase to the next phase of the IAP be prepared as soon as possible, in 2015, and in the interest of researchers, taking into account the decisions taken under the Sixth State Reform, which is no more or less than what you have said. Madam Secretary of State, it is an immense provocation to table a motion and I will see to what extent the majority simply agrees to give hope and an objective to the scientific research of this country because it is not present today and that is what, alas, maintains the uncertainty and unease that has been expressed in the scientific world in general around this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Unlike my predecessors, I am not concerned about your good intentions and your will to push federal science policy forward. I am more concerned about a number of practical steps. In your answer, you say you want a new structure. Again: how do you involve the federal scientific institutions? I don't think that's gonna happen much after all. You have given a number of examples, but this is really crucial. You also say that there are currently a number of audits and analyses and that the institutions will be involved in their evaluations, but people want to be involved in advance and during this phase. There must be some kind of intensive dialogue with all these institutions. Another point you raised was the question of which support services would be offered, which you considered to be a little premature. So I'm early with my question, although I don't think so. I have received many signals about this from the institutions. There is a great deal of concern about it, so I would like to call for the process to be speeded up and intensified and for the people who know it, the people of the institutions, to look up and engage in dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u54	Madam President, in my reply I asked the Secretary of State a brief question: whether or not she is a party asking for an open debate in the committee here in Parliament, with the various actors, about her policy, her objectives and her reform? That was a specific question in my reply. Madam Secretary of State, what is your position on that? Are you prepared to do so and take part in such a debate in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u55	The objectives are set out in the coalition agreement and can be discussed. The independence has been incorporated into the coalition agreement and I have to implement the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u56	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Delizée and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Jean-Marc Delizée and Marcel Cheron and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud and Scientific Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, - having regard to the Special Act on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980 and in particular Article 6a(2) thereof (paragraphs 1 to 7); - having regard to the petition supported by nearly 17,000 signatories, including eminent Belgian and international scientists (a thousand); - having regard to the conclusions of the Colloquium organised under the auspices of the Nobel laureate François Englert, by the Presidency of the Senate, on 3 March 2015, asks the government - to initiate, without further delay, consultations with representatives of the scientific and industrial world on the future of federal scientific policy and in particular the reorganization projects provided for in the Government's agreement; - within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, to converge towards a level of research and development expenditure of 3% of GDP, one third of which comes from the public sector and to ensure better coordination of scientific policies in Belgium; - to respect the independence of federal scientific institutions by avoiding imposing, in the grant award criteria, compliance with the projects contained in the government agreement; - respect, particularly in the field of space research within the framework of international institutions, the division of powers provided for in the Special Act of 8 August 1980; - to not implement any reform of the organization of the federal space – strategic sector for our economy – without prior consultation and advice from the industry and scientists concerned; - to maintain the pooling of support services within BELSPO so that federal scientific institutions continue to benefit from economies of scale and remain effective and efficient in carrying out their tasks; - to maintain the existence of the Science Policy PPS which supports a strong Belgian scientific identity at the international level and which brings together expertise from all over the country beyond the Community interests but for the benefit of the three regions of the country. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and reads as follows: The Chamber, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud, and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, - having regard to the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, and in particular Article 6a (2) (paragraphs 1 to 7), - having regard to the petition signed by nearly 17 000 citizens, including eminent Belgian and international scientists (1 000); - having regard to the conclusions of the colloquium organised by the Senate Presidency on 3 March 2015 under the auspices of Nobel Prize winner François Englert, asks the government - without delay to sit down with the representatives of the scientific community and industry to discuss the future of federal science policy and, in particular, the reform plans set out in the coalition agreement; - to evolve in the context of the Europe 2020 strategy towards a level of expenditure on research and development of 3% of GDP, one third of which comes from the public sector, and to ensure better coordination of science policy in Belgium; - respect the independence of the federal scientific institutions by not requiring compliance with the plans of the government agreement as regards the criteria for granting grants; - respect the division of powers provided for in the special Law of 8 August 1980, in particular as regards space research in the framework of international institutions; - the federal space sector, which is of strategic importance to our economy, should not be reformed without first consulting or consulting the relevant scientists and industrialists; - maintain the pooling of support services at BELSPO so that federal scientific institutions can continue to benefit from economies of scale and carry out their tasks in an effective and efficient manner; - maintain the Science Policy PPS, which gives Belgium a strong identity in the international field in science and unites expertise from all corners of the country, regardless of Community interests and for the benefit of the three regions of our country. A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marcel Cheron and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Jean-Marc Delizée and Marcel Cheron and the response of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud and Scientific Policy, Assistant to the Minister of Finance, asks the government - to define and announce as quickly and precisely as possible the structure of the Belgian federal scientific research landscape, in order to dissolve the current uncertainties, which are very damaging to it; - to define as soon as possible the concept of the empowerment of scientific institutions put forward by the government, in order to enable them to grasp the future clearly; - to ensure the continuation of the research activities and programmes currently supported by BELSPO, regardless of the structure to replace BELSPO; - ensure that BELSPO's coordination role has been maintained in the Belgian R&D landscape and at international level, as well as involvement in international institutions (EU, Unesco, ESA, etc.)) for which BELSPO's expertise and added value are recognised by the scientific community; - to prepare at best as early as 2015, for the benefit of researchers, the transition from the current phase to the next phase of the programme of the Interuniversity Attraction Poles-Pal-, taking into account the decisions taken in the framework of the Sixth State Reform. A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron and reads as follows: The Chamber, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée and Mr Marcel Cheron and the reply of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Combating Tax Fraud, and Science Policy, attached to the Minister of Finance, asks the government - to inform as soon as possible and to define precisely how Belgian federal scientific research will be structured in order to eliminate the current uncertainty which has a detrimental effect on it; - to define as soon as possible the concept of the independence of the scientific institutions used by the government in order to give the institutions concerned a clear picture of the future; - ensure the maintenance of the activities and research programmes supported by BELSPO today, regardless of the body that will replace BELSPO in the long term; - to consolidate the coordinating role of BELSPO in Belgian R & D and at international level, as well as its involvement in international institutions (EU, UNESCO, ESA, etc.) so far.), for which the expertise and added value of BELSPO are recognised by the scientific community; - to prepare the transition from the current phase to the next phase of the Interuniversity Attraction Poles Programme (IUAP) as far as possible from 2015, taking into account the decisions taken under the Sixth State Reform. ' A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u57	Madam President, I would like to speak on the previous point. Since Parliament has the last word, I take note of the reply of the Secretary of State that she does not really wish to establish a dialogue in our Parliament and to refer only to the government agreement which is undoubtedly the Bible but which does not allow dialogue with the actors on the ground on how to view the future and to envisage this reform. That's a little unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u58	Madam President, the rector of the KUL, Mr Rik Torfs, spoke a few weeks ago on the VRT and RTBF plateaus to justify the government's scientific policy and, more specifically, the disappearance of BELSPO. Mr. Torfs supports you or vice versa, I don't know. There are, of course, a lot of comments to be made on some of Mr Torfs's comments – my colleague Cheron has already done so in part – both on the origin of the signatures and on the Nobel Prize. It's a little unfortunate for a scientist. Mr. Torfs is well known in this house. He was a Senator on the CD&V and, as such, he was probably also involved in some way in the development of the content of the government agreement. I would like to ask you about your point of view with regard to Mr Torfs's comments and his reasons. That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I want to address the same issues as he or ask the same questions, even though my colleague Cheron, without knowing them, has already dealt with them. Mr Torfs said that the science policy is already 90% regionalised whereas – I confirm what my colleague Cheron has said – the federal research budget represents between 45 and 48 % of public research in Belgium. What's your analysis of this? Do you consider that the operating costs of the Science Policy PPS are too high while only 3.9% of its budget is spent on it? Do you think BELSPO has voluntarily promoted and promoted so-called Francophone projects or universities? Do you think the SPP Scientific Policy would be dominated by the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u59	Mr Delizée, I have before me the statistics on which BELSPO also draws up the Belgian report for the OECD. They show the following evolution. In 2003, federal science policy accounted for almost 30% of public spending on research and development. Following the reform of the State, this figure fell to 23.5 per cent in 2013. This figure does not yet take into account the impact of the sixth reform of the State in terms of the transfer to the Regions of the poles of interuniversity attraction, in particular technology, since the planned date for the implementation of this measure is 2018. Despite a decrease in the federal contribution to the Science Policy in terms of total public expenditure on R&D over the period 2003-2013, public spending increased by almost 50%. In addition to public investment, the research and development activities of companies must be retained. These innovation activities are the responsibility of the Regions. The company's 20 R&D investments were estimated in 2011 at €4.684 million, almost double the public investment. As a result, the impact of the financing of the Federal Science Policy on all scientific research in Belgium is limited to 8% of the total R&D budget. Finally, I have to mention a very important tax measure in terms of stimulating scientific research, which applies to universities and colleges as well as to research centres or companies. It covers the following amounts: EUR 96 million for the reduction of the researcher's professional discount, EUR 352 million for the R&D tax credit, and EUR 192 million for the patent income deduction. The tax base for these measures was established in a programme law and adapted in the Act of 17 June 2013 on fiscal, financial and sustainable development provisions. These are important mechanisms for researchers, which the government wishes to maintain. The functions performed by BELSPO have so far developed organically, while at the same time covering a multitude of related core missions and allowances. The allocation of the Science Policy budget into 118 budget lines demonstrates the fragmentation of policies over the past five years and its dilution, possibly resulting in a negative impact on performance efficiency. Many of these 118 lines are further subdivided into several sub-themes. As the policy-maker, it is my duty to ask critical questions about this situation in order to be able to make the necessary changes that will entail concrete added value for all the categories concerned, including the current staff of BELSPO. I would also like to point out that overhead costs not only represent the staff costs of the 260 employees of BELSPO, but also the considerable costs of accommodation, supervision, mobility, computerization and energy. In addition, the correct calculation of overhead costs requires weighting in relation to the content of the mission. For example, several budget lines represent nothing other than the direct payment to the Communities of the means intended for the reception of foreign students in particular. It seems to me that a minimum amount of overhead must be incurred in this type of intervention, well above the 3.9% you quote. Other tasks, such as the organisation of consultation between the Communities, require the supervision of quality staff. This includes defining a strategic position, often without impact on the Federal Science Policy budget. The overhead costs of such missions cannot therefore be expressed in percentages. For example, if the Regions wish to participate in the European Research Infrastructure Initiative, the Federal Administration will organise the consultation on this subject in order to arrive at a common position which will or will not be accompanied by financial commitments from the Communities or Regions. In this context, according to the government agreement, current PPS or institution grants in our country and abroad will need to be identified, highlighted in detail and evaluated. This phase of analysis with the calculation of overheads began as planned. Once completed, it will provide us with valuable background information on the continuation of certain activities and/or their correction. BELSPO can be expected to be primarily a public service available to all researchers, regardless of their linguistic affiliation, using transparent evaluation procedures with pre-established criteria for the allocation of research projects. Various evaluations of programmes carried out by BELSPO in the past will be subject, as previously said, to an audit of which it is of course impossible to anticipate the results of the analysis. In addition, there are a number of budget lines, without any further intervention in terms of the content of BELSPO, which are part of a previous political agreement and which can give the impression of favouring Francophones, which I can conceive of. To be quite accurate, it must be noted that we must not look for the origin of these preferential treatment in the head of BELSPO but in the previous agreements of a purely political nature. The basic allocations for university education available to foreign students represent the greatest benefit Francophones derive from this measure. Of a budget of €113 million, 37.3 million was legally transferred on an annual basis to the Flemish Region, compared with €75.7 million received by the French Community. As you can only see, this total amount of EUR 113 million represents more than twice the total annual budgets of the IAP and BRAIN-be. It is therefore no wonder that the rector of a Flemish university is questioning this matter, since these transfers have been legally fixed in the past. I must refer to a possible reform of the future state in order to discuss the merits of the law. As part of the current government agreement, I am sticking to the enforcement of existing laws. Among the ten ministers and secretaries of state that have preceded me since 1992, there are seven eminences of the PS, MM. Dehousse, Daerden, Ylieff, Demotte, Picqué, Magnette and Courard. The others were Ms. Moerman, Mr. Verwilghen and Ms. Laruelle. Of my ten predecessors, two came from the Flemish Region. Over the past 12 years, BELSPO's presidency has been held by a PS mayor despite the conflict between him and the French Community in this regard. This close involvement of the PS over the last decade in scientific policy can indeed raise many questions in each of its actors, including Mr Torfs. One might wonder about the impact that this involvement of the PS has really had on the organisation of the themes and on that of scientific policy, but my mission concerns the present and the future. In the interest of the Federal Science Policy, I will ensure that scientists can make full use of their expertise regardless of their political or other colour. Only this non-colored approach will make it possible to derive the best social benefit from our already recognized science at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u60	This answer is quite ridiculous. I think Mr Torfs supports your policy and you support Mr Torfs in his statements. I therefore take note of your answers. My first question is about numbers. Do you compare apples and pears? Surprisingly, the Federal Science Policy accounts for 45-46% of public budgets and you tell us that, in the end, it is 8%. I confess I don't know what you're comparing to achieve that result. Of course, in the 600 million of your budget, not everything is allocated directly to research. There may be operating appropriations or other items. Is that to say that these 600 million would represent only 8% of the public budget for scientific research in Belgium? I admit I don't understand. [[All this was very fast.]] I will read and analyze this and I will come back to you after putting a little order, but I absolutely do not understand how you achieve this 8% result. As far as overhead is concerned, 3.9% of operating costs are quite rational. This is very low compared to other SPPs or departments. As for the impression that some Francophone projects would be favoured, perhaps there is more. It all depends on the number of foreign students who enrol in one university or another and follow the course. Finally, the last part of your answer is absolutely surreal. Of course, BELSPO and the SPP have not existed for so many years. However, we are here more in the register of witch hunts or other. I find this answer quite surreal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u61	Question No 3931 by Mrs Cassart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u62	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the Department of Scientific Policy has had a bit of a rough Easter weekend, in any case a media show related to the fate you have reserved for the president of the Science Policy PPS, Mr Mettens. It was covered in both the French and Dutch-speaking press. We have already mentioned the subject in the context of a question on the services of a lawyer's office. This whole story began with the evaluation of the president of the Science Policy PPS, according to the usual procedure. The latter's term of office ended on 7 April, Easter Monday. The practice is that there is a pre-term evaluation at the end of the mandate. However, it would appear that, despite many requests, you did not accept this assessment, except when Mr. Mettens assigned you to the Court of First Instance for this purpose. However, this evaluation has been carried out and you seem to have given it the word "very good". This means that it had achieved more than 90 per cent of the targets that had been set with the Liberal ministers in previous years. You have made the person concerned aware of the non-renewal of his mandate by means of a laconic e-mail - according to the press - 72 hours before the end of his term. In terms of procedure, for a personality of this level, it is a rather special, quite exceptional way of proceeding in the "rare" sense. To avoid Mr. Mettens being reappointed, what did you do? You changed very slightly, in a cosmetic way, it would seem, the profile of the President's function; which allowed you to justify the non-renewal. Similarly, you have changed the pay band somewhat to avoid the automatic renewal of the employee at the end of the term of office. That's why I'm asking you. That's a rather challenging process. We have a PPS president who obtained this position following a very complicated assessment, assessment that other candidates did not succeed. Mr Mettens was ranked first on two occasions, following a very tough procedure and he achieved his objectives. It is therefore a bit surprising that someone who presents such a profile and to whom you give a "very good" assessment must undergo such an attitude on your part. Why did you do that to Mr Mettens? Why did you refuse to evaluate his mandate? Why did you call on a lawyer's office to study legally how to evict him? On the basis of what diagnosis did you manage to consider that Mr Mettens would not be the right person to carry out the reforms that you wish to implement within the Scientific Policy? You appoint an ad interim president. It can be understood that if there is a willingness to change the structures of BELSPO, there may be a transition period. But the person who was in place could perfectly ensure this transition. Would Mr Mettens have shown some incompetence during his term of office or a lack of loyalty? Can you tell us more about this? And why did you choose to open a position as chairman of the SPP Scientific Policy Steering Committee with the cosmetic transformations, and a bit magical about which I spoke, while your intention is to remove the department? For the sake of history, the government agreement provides for the reform or abolition of the Social Integration PPS, but your colleague, Mr Borsus, has nevertheless renewed his president.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u63	Madam Chair, Madam Secretary of State, the 8th Chamber of the Council of State confirmed the government's decision not to renew the mandate of the chairman of the executive committee of the BELSPO PPS. It should be noted that the Conseil d'État states that "the expiry of its mandate has led the Belgian State to take a series of decisions in an emergency and that it could not be accused of having made every effort to proceed, within the shortest possible time, to its provisional replacement". In your policy statement, it was clarified that with regard to management methodology, priority would be given to easily assessable objectives. As the situation is now legally clarified, what action will be taken on the vacancy? What are the next steps in the procedure? What is the planned schedule? Has the fundamental change in the description of the management function been drafted in the spirit of defining "easily evaluable" objectives? If so, can you tell me what these objectives are?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u64	Madam President, Mr Delizée, I confirm that Mr Mettens' term of office ended automatically on 6 April at midnight because of the expiry of his term of office. This means that the government is free to choose a new president. But this selection procedure, which follows the declaration of the vacancy of the term of office, takes some time, which has led to the need for an ad interim president. Given the role assigned to him in the Science Policy PPS, at the level of the steering committee and in providing day-to-day direction, I have opted for Mr. Delcourt to prepare for the profound transition of science policy. We are looking for someone with another profile who could guide the Science Policy PPS through the reforms and can get to work by bringing new ideas and methods. It is true that Mr Mettens was given the "very good" mark in his final assessment. I would, however, like to point out that this assessment was carried out on the basis of parameters which had been imposed by the previous government and which related to the function of Mr Mettens' mandate as it ended on 6 April. As you can read in the job vacancy, it has been chosen to look for a real change manager, who is able to accompany the planned reform of the SPP. This resulted in a modified function description, which can be consulted publicly. Mrs Cassart, the vacancy for a new president of the Science Policy PPS was published on the Selor website. Candidates can register until May 26, 2015. The next steps in the procedure are available on the Selor website. Various tests will be organised. There will be, for example, a pre-selection, where the general and specific conditions of participation will be examined. A computerised assessment will also be organized. This test consists of a computerized test of managerial skills. In addition, an interview is also organised. The specific and managerial skills required to perform this function are tested. Finally, I can confirm that the new mandate function will be opposed to evaluation criteria as is generally the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, we can't actually talk about witch trials since there have been no trials. The answer to the previous question shows that a witch hunt is actually being carried out, since nothing is really being blamed on the president in terms of competence or evaluation. The big problem or the big flaw is to be socialist or to be labelled as such. It's the only thing that poses a problem in this case. We therefore note that there is a kind of hunt against Mr Mettens. It was already announced earlier in articles that clearly pointed out Mr. Mettens in his personal capacity. I understand that you confirm the evaluation, but that it was carried out on the basis of the parameters of the previous governments. Mr Mettens served two six-year terms, during which his tutelary ministers were Ms Moerman, Mr Verwilghen, Ms Laruelle and Messrs. Magnette and Courard for a half-mandate. For a long period of time, there was a succession of Dutch- and French-speaking Liberal ministers. Of course, it is not possible to evaluate the objectives in any other way than that set by previous governments in the previous three legislatures. I would also like to say to Mrs Cassart that what was decided by the Council of State concerned only a request for extreme urgency. The purpose was to establish a file within a few hours during the Easter weekend. The Council of State did not in fact grant its request in extreme urgency, which absolutely does not prejudge a decision which could be taken on the merits but which would only necessarily come later. I really regret this whole procedure and the witch hunt that targets a person, no doubt for his convictions! Nothing else in the answer indicates that there was anything negative about him!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I assure you, my reply will be quite different from that of Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u67	The opposite would have been surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u68	It's very good like that! My reply turns towards the future, towards criteria, a profile and the right person in the right place. You will continue to work and we will come back soon on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u69	Colleagues, we are continuing our work after this small interlude. Minister Peeters is available in principle until 6 p.m. I would also like to point out that the report of the CREG is being distributed to the members present. Absentees will receive it through other channels. Debates of the European Parliament 1987 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh to be converted into a written question .
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u70	Minister, during the pre-balance period, traders have the right to carry out price reductions in a regulated manner. For example, lost sales are in principle not allowed. Similarly, discounts can be displayed when they relate to more than one item. However, it would appear that there is currently some legal uncertainty about the legality of pre-balances, and precisely what is allowed and what is not allowed in terms of the announcement of reductions. Indeed, the rule that a reduction of x % should be calculated on the lowest price in the previous month is no longer applicable following a judgment of the European Court of Justice, which notes the non-compliance of this reference period with European rules. When asked by the sector, the FPS Economy department indicated that this issue was under consideration. I would therefore like to know what rules traders must or can practice immediately. What is the mechanism in place to ensure that they are not unjustly punished in the absence of specific rules? Did you direct an official communication to the sector concerned? Finally, when do you intend to bring – unless you have already done so because my question is not recent – all the necessary clarity to the relevant legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u71	Mr President, dear colleague, you are right. On Thursday, a Council of Ministers will be held. On this occasion, I will propose to adapt the law. I will introduce a bill to that effect. I hope that, after this Council is held, I will be able to table this bill in the House and that it can be approved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. This reform is essential because we are on the eve of a new period of balances. Control services should no longer work on a case-by-case basis, but should be able to refer to a rule applicable to all traders.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u73	Mrs Detiège has asked for her question No. 2666 to be converted into a written question. The same applies to questions Nos 2755 and 2756 by Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u74	Mr President, Minister, you undoubtedly know the concept of home copy. We have already discussed it at an earlier meeting. The damage suffered by rightholders by the exception allowing copies for private use to be made without permission is offset by a levy on storage media and devices. This is collected by the company Auvibel. I have some questions about this. Firstly, what is the specific scope of that law today? For whom and from what source can one make a copy? What does the Belgian exception to the copyright law on home copy include more than for example time shifting, so watch at a later time than when something is broadcast, or format shifting, where one rips a CD to listen to the music on an iPod or rips a DVD to watch it on an iPad? As you know, at the end of last year in the United Kingdom, the home copy was explicitly limited to format shifting and time shifting. What does our law contain more than those two elements? In what sense is the scope wider or less wide for us than the British version? Secondly, how has the scope evolved since the adoption of the law of 30 June 1994? Where is the scope extended or restricted? The first thing I am thinking of is the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 April 2014 in the case of ICI Adam BV against Stichting Thuiskopie, explicitly stating that copies from illegal sources are not covered by this law. This could therefore limit the scope of application. Do you know any other restrictions or extensions? What is the effect on the budgeted damage that was to be compensated by levies? How did that damage evolve? In particular, was there in the past, or is today being collected for copies made from illegal sources? Thirdly, do you intend to reform the home copy paragraphs in the Belgian copyright law in order to clarify or change the scope of application?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u75	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, first of all, copying must be done in family circles and should only be intended for this purpose. Family circle means persons who have a close relationship with each other. A brother can copy a song from a purchased CD on a USB stick to give it to his sister, for example. Time shifting and format shifting are rather limited processes, in terms of the number of reproductions required. The Belgian exception for private copying allows multiple copies to be made for private use. Secondly, technological evolution had an impact on the scope of the remuneration for a private copy. This fee was extended from initially analogue carriers and devices, video cassettes, for example, to a significant range of digital carriers and devices. Guarantees at the source of the calculation of the remuneration and the ex-post guarantees This concerns the comparison with the rates in neighbouring countries were built in with the aim of compensating for the damage suffered by the private copy. Since 1994, the remuneration for private copies has always been determined after consulting the relevant environments, without explicitly taking into account copies from illegal sources. At present, it is clear that, in accordance with European case law, the Belgian system cannot apply to reproductions from an illegal source. Thirdly, the UK exception allows only two limited reproduction acts, provided that the original of which is copied was purchased and only one copy is made. The Belgian exception is wider. Fourthly, the draft of the Royal Decree on the provisions of Book 11, Article 233, of the Code of Economic Law, which is to regulate the question of professional use, is being prepared by my administration. I will try to complete that royal decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is something in your answer that I find a little strange. You say that the sums to compensate for a budgeted damage have always been committed to us. That damage was always budgeted without taking into account copies from an illegal source. However, in 2005, your predecessor, the Minister of Economy, Energy, Foreign Trade and Science Policy, Minister Verwilghen, at the time replied to a question from Mrs Jacqueline Galant, then MP: "The law on copyright and related rights provides for certain exceptions to copyright, in particular regarding copying for own use. This exception could apply to download operations carried out in the framework of data exchange networks called peer-to-peer. In 2003, the Intellectual Property Service issued an opinion on this question, in the context of the work of the Advisory Committee on Copying for Own Use. This opinion was unanimously adopted by the members of the advisory committee, in particular by the management company Auvibel, the hardware industry, the VBO, the small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. If I understand correctly, the Intellectual Property Service stated that peer-to-peer networks, i.e. downloading via torrent sites, would be covered by the home copy exception. A logical consequence is, of course, that the compensation for home copy also takes into account those reproductions in the calculation of the damage. You're saying that didn't happen. The answer given at the time was therefore wrong. Has there been an evolution? You say that there has been no evolution in the scope of application, but yet it is said that illegal copies have been taken into account, when you say today that they have not. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u77	Mr President, it is a good thing that there are other ministers on occasion, although I am not saying that right now as far as I am concerned. Mr Dedecker, this is a matter of progressive understanding, taking into account, among other things, case law at European level. I'd like to take another look at the case. In my reply, I explained where we are now, in relation to the situation in 2004 or 2005 which was subject to a certain evolution or progressive understanding. I can't tell you any better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the additional clarification. I can indeed go along with the argument of progressive understanding. You call it progressive insight, but it can also be seen as a narrower definition by the European Court of Justice, which did not make that decision until last year. If, however, the damage from illegal copies is to be included in the calculation at the time and this is no longer to be done, then the logical consequence is that the damage will be much lower today. We will also have to adapt this in our system. I would also ask you to ensure that the damage calculation is done correctly, so that an adjustment is made. That can only mean a serious adjustment down, because the biggest damage has just come from illegal copies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u79	Mr Dedecker, as usual, your reasoning has a lot of logic, and that is also the case now. It makes sense, as you say, that this damage calculation will have to be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u80	Minister, the sector of prepared meat and meat preparations has been working for years to innovate in order to adapt to the new health directives. For example, between 2006 and 2012, the sector has already managed to reduce the amount of salt in our meat by 15%. By 2020, we would like to see even more salt reduction. However, the possibilities are limited because salt remains the best preservative for meat products and is essential for food safety. The use of flavourings or salts other than kitchen salts could be an alternative, of course when there is no risk to public health. However, the sector is currently hampered by the Royal Decree of 8 June 1983 on the manufacture and trade of prepared meat and meat preparations. According to this KB, only a number of products are authorised as a salt substitute. Potassium chloride, a possible alternative, is also banned in our country because it has not been shown that it is good for health. This, of course, also creates unequal competition with foreign products that are commercialised here in which certain alternatives can be used. For example, the consumer can currently go to the supermarket and buy Dutch or French hesp in which additives or other ingredients are incorporated that our Belgian producers are not allowed to use. Fat reduction poses almost the same problem. Here, for example, plant alternatives such as olive oil are prohibited by the Royal Decree. Also adding additional vegetables or fibers may not be allowed. In the meantime, European legislation continues to evolve, creating a lot of confusion and misapplications at the 1983 Royal Decree. In the meantime, the FPS Economy would have already been contacted to amend that legislation. I would have liked to ask you a few questions about this. Are you aware of the restrictions imposed by the 1983 Royal Decree on the meat sector? If so, what is the state of play with regard to the revision of that Royal Decree? Have you had any contact with your colleague from Health Maggie De Block about this? This can also have an effective impact on public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u81	Mr President, Mr Hufkens, you are right, the Royal Decree of 8 June 1983 is due for revision. My administration is now fully engaged in a draft royal decree which hopefully can be finalised quite quickly. The mandatory consultations of the Council for Consumption and the High Council for Self-employed and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, etc., will then be followed. There is also consultation with the FPS Health Department. I hope that before the summer recess we can come up with an amendment to the Royal Decree on 8 June 1983. You're right that this needs an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u82	Mr President, Minister, what took you so long? After all, the sector has been asking for many years to adapt it. Apparently, that hasn't been so obvious, but I don't know why. You say you will have consultation with the Public Health Office. Does that also mean that we are discussing a number of issues, such as potassium chloride, which could effectively pose dangers?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u83	With regard to your first question, you must ask my predecessor why it took so long, if you run into him, ask him. With regard to the content of the Royal Decree, I have taken your comment and we will look at how we will deal with it. I hope you are pleased that we will come forward with a draft royal decree before the summer recess, that is the most important thing. Some things take a little longer or need their time. We have probably been waiting for this government to change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u84	Question No 2968 by Mrs Matz is a matter for the Committee on Justice. Ms. Karine Lalieux referred questions Nos. 2975, 3129, 3579, 3910 and 3952.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u85	Minister, the Code of Economic Law was introduced two years ago. That Code also included the Law of 19 December 2005 on pre-contractual information in commercial cooperation agreements. At the same time, that last law was revised. From now on, commercial agents within the meaning of the Trade Agent Agreement Act of 13 April 1995 would also fall within its scope. Curiously, however, commercial agents, bank agents and insurance agents were explicitly excluded from the scope of the law. However, in a 2001 judgment, the Constitutional Court had already held that they were indeed covered by the law on commercial agency agreements. The Council of State already strongly criticized Article 10.26 in its draft law, which causes discrimination, as it may constitute a violation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution on the prohibition of discrimination. The problem is that this creates discrimination against the excluded agents and creates a legal vacuum, leading to legal uncertainty. Today, proceedings are under way in the Constitutional Court to destroy the exclusion of bank and insurance agents from the law on pre-contractual information in commercial cooperation agreements. The opinion of the Council of State is clear on this. In your view, then, Minister, is it not better to work proactively towards a solution that puts an end to discrimination, rather than waiting for a possible or even probable condemnation of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 3663 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u87	Mr President, the Constitutional Court has been very popular lately! There is indeed a procedure before the Constitutional Court in order to give a definitive ruling as to whether the exclusion of the type of agreement from the scope of the law is in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. The question is whether I should change the law now, even if there is no decision by the Constitutional Court yet. My services believe that it is better for the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not the principle of equality has been violated and then to make an adjustment, if necessary or if necessary. A proactive approach is not proposed. If you have any heavy arguments for that, I am always open to that. The agreement is to wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u88	Thank you, Minister. Of course, it's a tactic like another. Unfortunately, the signals are rather clear, depending on the position they take. Perhaps it is advisable to look at at least one solution, so that, if there is a condemnation of it, we do not have to wait long for the final solution. Indeed, the Constitutional Court is popular today, and since we have agreed not to amend this legislature, we will still have to follow its judgments.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u89	Mr Klaps, you are very competent in this matter. I am always open to arguments to convince some evan not to wait for the judgment. I want to take a quiet look at that. After all, it may be a while before the judgment arrives. If there is a clear demand in the sector to act proactively, I must be given the necessary arguments, either directly or through you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u90	I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u91	In any case, you have had the last word, Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u92	Minister, I was surprised to hear in the press the closure of the OIVO, the Research and Information Centre of the Consumers' Organisations. You promised to find a solution for OIVO months ago in this committee. In November, we noted that you had not provided in the budget for operating funds for OIVO. You then kissed us saying that you would look within the department for additional resources. Also in the Business Committee of 10 March, you were still unable to clarify the future of OIVO. You always talked about the importance of the organisation and the need to reform it. You prefer to see the organization housed in the FPS Economy, although with an independent operation. It is not always clear to me whether this is also the wish of OIVO itself. A day after your answer to a follow-up question from colleague Nollet, the 22 employees of OIVO received their resignation letter. OIVO had stopped its activities. I must say that I find it very strange that you could not say this in committee. With the cessation, the special collective redundancies procedure was initiated after the closure of the company for at least 20 employees as provided for in the Renault Act. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. You always said there was a future for OIVO. Why, then, is there a cessation of activities and the dismissed staff now end up in an accompanying procedure, in accordance with the Renault Act? Can consumer organisations still benefit from public support to carry out certain tasks, such as representation in various advisory councils? If so, what support do you think? Where should the resources come from? In the current state of affairs, can the operation and expertise of OIVO still be fished through a different structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u93	Mr President, Minister, during our last committee meeting, I expressed my greatest concern about the formula you were considering for the future of CRIOC. At the time, you were optimistic, believing that greater efficiency would be required. Today, the cutlet has fallen and the efficiency sought is certainly not at the rendezvous since the press has announced a collective dismissal of the 22 employees of CRIOC. Minister, we need to fundamentally review your perspective on this issue. Your credibility in terms of consumer protection is at stake. The tasks assumed by the workers of the CRIOC are fundamental in our legal architecture. What do you intend to put in place to get out of this confrontational logic very quickly and back to the CRIOC by proposing a formula that can accommodate all the stakeholders? Time is running out, don't delay! CRIOC is an institution that has a usefulness and a history; its current workers are the first to bear it. It is not only to the Minister responsible for consumer protection that I am addressing here, it is also to the Minister responsible for employment who, I hope, is more than concerned about the risk of this institution putting the key under the doormat permanently and completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u94	Mr President, Minister, when I asked you about the future of CRIOC a few months ago, you were quite reassuring, as my colleagues reminded you. I quote: "Contacts have been arranged with consumer organisations. As I said, a consultation will take place on Thursday with the aim of redefining the contract. After reaching a consensus – in any case, I hope – I will try to find ways to finance this concrete model. After the discussion, I will be able to provide you with new information. But the aim is very clear, namely to organize the CRIOC and then to seek the funds to finance it for 2015 and the years that follow." It must be noted that between words and deeds there seems to be an unstoppable gulf. It is a clear and clear signal to consumer associations whose capacity to act and operate is largely planed. Even more dramatic, let us not even talk about the mediation services of which CRIOC was the scientific arm. But beyond what seems to be a step forward for consumer associations, it is to the workers that I am thinking about right now and about which I am asking you. These are subject to collective redundancies. After having had to face the drastic challenge of their work and their usefulness, the employees now have to face another consequence of your CRIOC financial dewatering policy. They will apparently not be able to receive compensation, even if only at a minimum legal level. Minister, there is no need to ask if you are going to do all you can to try to save the CRIOC. I think it's not in your intentions, and it's never been. I will also spare you a second camouflage of the truth by coming to specific questions related to the persons concerned. Are you going to provide the necessary liquidity so that CRIOC can properly compensate its employees? Who will take over the core tasks of CRIOC and with what financial means? Will you set up a conversion unit to integrate, for example, CRIOC staff into a possible new structure? Thank you for your answer, which I sincerely hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always said and I confirm today that I want to continue to support consumer organisations in the future so that they can fulfil their important role in economic cooperation. We have had several meetings on the dossier and examined various slopes. On one of the previous questions, we were on the slopes of the Central Council for Business. Time has passed over that. The Central Council for Business then decided in all wisdom that it is not a viable option for the Council. We are actively looking for a solution, whereby the assignments would be completed as efficiently as possible. I myself put a proposal on the table at the end of January 2015. I will spare you the various contacts that my staff have also had to find a solution. It is true that on 11 March 2015, the Board of Directors of OIVO decided to initiate the Renault procedure. The Governing Council of last Friday 24 April 2015 confirmed the collective redundancies procedure. Reference is made to previous questions on subsequent decisions. I wasn't aware of that either. After all, I want to be open in the dossier, with a lot of transparency. However, I have also had to take note of these decisions. OIVO is an independent institution with its own governing body. Regardless of OIVO's decision, I continue to work for a structural solution to support consumer organisations. Budgetary control committed an appropriation of EUR 500 000 for this financial support. It is not that no funds have been allocated or no efforts have been made in this area. I also spoke very explicitly about the EUR 500 000. The amount's here. That's not the problem. The problem is, however, to find a good solution to the question of which structure is the best way of fulfilling the essential tasks to be carried out. I, along with you, regret that this decision has not yet been taken. It will be the decision-making bodies of the new structure that will assess the possible integration of OIVO staff. It would be a good thing if the existing expertise were not lost. I have put forward concrete pistes to offer the employment prospects to the employees of OIVO, using the opportunities offered by the creation of the consumer ombudsman service. I have also always been very clear to those responsible for OIVO about the fact that social passiveness is not borne by the public budget. There has been no ambiguity about this in the past and also today. That said, there is a budget of EUR 500 000. We want to complete the dossier as soon as possible and give it a new dynamism. We have put various solutions on the table. I hope that you will not have to ask me too much about the dossier and that a solution can be found. What is very important to me is that we have tried again and again to allow this to land in a good way. To my great regret, that has not yet been achieved today. All the other elements, such as the fact that I had failed to fulfil my commitment, are not on the agenda for me. I hope that we will be able to land in the next few weeks, even before the summer recess. I can assure you that this is not an easy file to get the noses all in the same direction. You know that consultation is important to me and I will continue to discuss it until a solution is found. I've already dragged the 500 000 euros out of the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that there will still be support for consumer organisations. However, transparency could be improved. I got the impression there was a hidden agenda. Excuse me for saying this like this. I am sorry that we did not know what was going to happen, but I found it even worse for the staff who suddenly got their resignation in the mailbox without being informed in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u97	Minister, I don't understand you. I understand the answer you're giving. It is factual and clear. What I do not understand is that you want to pay attention to consumer protection and the tasks currently assigned to CRIOC. You put one or the other lead on the table. In our previous discussions, I have mainly heard the lead of the Central Economic Council. But you are telling us that this was not considered feasible by the Council itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u98	It was the unions who assessed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u99	Trade unions that are themselves members of the Council, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u100	Also at CRIOC,...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u101	Of course! As far as CRIOC is concerned, we already knew that. I had expressed this myself in my question in our previous committee. Today it is also the Central Council. Among the other things, Mr. Minister, you have mentioned the creation of a new structure that includes part of the workers. Don't you think it would be easier to work with the existing structure? Others in the majority could be obsessed with symbolic victories but it's not your type. We don't know each other yet, but I don't think it's your style. I got to know you a little bit during this first year. I don't understand why you seem obsessed with having to put this structure down and recreate another one. The Central Council trail no longer exists. Why is it necessary to create another structure to be able to take over part of the staff? Moreover, social liabilities could not be covered by the federal budget. There is also a need to understand the directors of the structure. They must also protect themselves and take the lead in dealing with protracted negotiations. I really feel that, willingly or unintentionally, – I don't try intentions – you take them to a cul-de-sac. But you still have the ability to get out of it and get them out of there. Minister, I really insist: make every effort, even if it is in proportion to all the files you have to deal with, to find a solution following this finding. You don't have to go back to the government. In this case, unlike some other files we know, you are not blocked by others. In this case, you are almost the only master in this matter. Please do everything you can to find a solution that will be acceptable to both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I agree with my colleague, Mr Nollet, and I really deplore this situation. Currently, 22 people are in the expectation. You said that you had not been informed of the Board's decision, and that once you had been informed, you had cleared some leads, etc. But if the leads you propose happen after the fact, you will show by the absurd that there is no solution. This is, in my view, a very deplorable situation, and I hope that it is not for political reasons that CRIOC is being undermined. Furthermore, I believe that a bad signal is being sent to consumer associations. Finally, let me say that you have not answered me some questions concerning the conversion cells. For example, what will these 500,000 euros be used for? Will they be used to compensate those who lose their jobs? Will they be used to create this new structure? In short, there are still a lot of shadows. As Mrs Vanheste said earlier, I regret that a dossier as important as this one is not fully transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to be brief, it is very important to find a solution in this matter. And I tried. I am not the one who proposed that a solution be provided by the Central Economic Council. At one point, the Council asked to be able to negotiate and find a solution. Then, in the end, he decided that this was not acceptable, which is a shame, because it wasted us time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u104	If I understand you correctly, the Central Council made a proposal to which it objected, subsequently.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u105	Yes. Having said that, I accept the decision of the Central Council Office. The bureau – vice-presidents, etc. – had come to the conclusion that CRIOC fully agreed that the Central Council should be responsible for finding a solution. The idea was therefore launched after consultation with CRIOC. However, today it appears that the proposed solution is not acceptable to some organisations in both the Central Council and the CRIOC. Secondly, the CRIOC has decided on a number of measures that fall under its responsibility, the organisation of management within it. Like you, I am convinced of the need to find a solution very quickly. I do not come to tell you that we absolutely need a new structure; that is not the case. The EUR 500 000 are planned and you know very well that originally there was no budget. Most importantly, in the coming days and weeks, we are finding a solution that is acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u106	I'll leave the minister the last word. He's the one with the hand, and we want him to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u107	The last word, you just got it!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u108	Minister, with my former colleague Mr Wathelet, we have already had the opportunity to ask you about the application of the law of 14 March 2014 supplementing the law of 21 December 1994 with a series of complementary indicators to measure the quality of life, human development, social progress and sustainability of our economy. I remained largely on my hunger, because your answer was only very superficial in the light of the questions I asked you. I would therefore like to return to this issue, which I consider essential, and this time I hope to have specific answers to each of my questions. Should we recall that the Act came into force on April 14, 2014? According to Article 4 of this law, a summary of the results should have already been published in the recent annual report 2014 of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). Minister, I would like to ask you eight questions. What is the timetable for the development of complementary indicators (4th indent of Article 2)? What steps still need to be taken? What form has been and will be given to the participation of Belgian civil society in this elaboration (4th indent of Article 2)? What has been and will be the timetable for selecting indicators (3rd indent of Article 2)? What are the criteria that have chaired or will preside over this selection and how have these indicators been or will be selected? What has been and will be the timetable for the calculation of these selected indicators? When and how will the full dissemination of these results (to be distinguished from publication of the summary in the NBB's annual report) be carried out? What use will you make of the results of these indicators for the policy suite? I expect more precise answers this time. If it was a start to discussion, it is important to get back to the heart of the matter to be sure that this law will really be operationalized as we all wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u109	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I have brought the agenda. If you wish, I can pass it on to you. We will be able to discuss it as soon as you have examined it. The document is very detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u110	Minister, we can attach it to the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u111	Minister, I accept this method, as long as this timetable is very specific. I wanted to know if you had any information on matters not directly related to the timetable. In this way, I'll analyze the whole thing and come back to question you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u112	With regard to the implementation modalities, I can tell you that the work plan includes consultation with the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development and the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. This will ensure the participation of public services and civil society. Next, the current research must determine the criteria for selecting indicators on the basis of the references mentioned by the law. In addition, Rio's principles of sustainable development. This selection will also be structured on the basis of the TransGovern systematic model as described in the federal sustainable development reports. It will mainly use the Sustainable Development Indicators database of the Federal Planning Office. Complementary indicators will provide the government with a tool to set, evaluate and refine its policy. It is certain that their provision will feed into the political debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u113	Minister, thank you for this additional information. I assume that the timetable will be included in the full report. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u114	It is a pity that this important, and official, piece is not taken up. Or I'll read it in my line so it can be integrated into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u115	We're going to look for a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u116	Minister, I see in your timetable that the synthesis of the report will be published in the Bank's next annual report. I'll analyze the rest in detail, but I already wanted to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u117	Mr President, Minister, I recently read in the press that you wanted to impose liability insurance for construction contractors. However, the Confederation of Construction has already indicated that this proposal is not sufficiently mature in its view and that it will have many negative repercussions. Indeed, the Confederation of Construction fears an increase in costs and a slowdown in the construction process. It also adds that the experience of compulsory liability insurance in France under the Spinetta Law of 1978 shows that the additional costs are considerable: administration, expertise, procedure. These costs result in a 5% increase in construction costs and a slowing down of the process. The Confederation would like a round table of insurers, builders and policies. Minister, what is the status of your project with respect to the liability insurance requirement for contractors? Can you give me some details about the terms of this insurance? Are you planning a meeting with the various people involved in this project? If so, is a date already set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u118	Mr. Chair, Mr.Clarinval, my firm has invited all interested parties to learn their views and to gain a better understanding of the issue. Among other things, we welcomed the Confederation of Construction, Bouwunie, Assuralia, WTCB, the Order of Architects and the Construction Conciliation Commission. As a result of these bilateral discussions, my firm, the SPF Economy and the stakeholders that have already committed themselves are now developing a proposal that takes into account different perspectives. This project will be re-discussed with stakeholders in order to arrive at a well-documented proposal as soon as possible. As far as the practical arrangements for insurance are concerned, concrete avenues have already been discussed with the insurance sector and the interest groups in the sector. The construction now consults its members with regard to these arrangements. It is therefore too early to answer this question today. As I have pointed out, we will soon be making a concrete proposal. Please note, however, that the aim is to eliminate the existing discrimination between entrepreneurs and architects, in accordance with the 2007 Constitutional Court ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u119	Minister, I am familiar with the French experience in liability insurance; as an entrepreneur working in France and Belgium, I can assure you that the French model is absolutely not a model to follow. This is very expensive and the game practiced by a whole series of actors is to voluntarily use the insurances in order to get money from them. It is no longer a question of healthy competition and responsibility of the players, but the game is to get as much money as possible from the insurers. It's insurance fraud. It is incredible to see the same disputes handled differently depending on whether the client is Belgian or French. Customers behave quite differently because of the presence of this insurance. In Belgium, we have the flexibility to be our own insurer, which empowers entrepreneurs. I would like you to pay attention to this aspect because in construction today, entrepreneurs are subject to very difficult competition from the Eastern countries in particular, due to social dumping. Current costs, and the general economy of construction, are placed in a rather bleak context at the present time. Establishing a rule that will cost money and generate behaviour that is not healthy in clients is tantamount to giving a bad signal. I hope that you will pay attention to this in your forthcoming negotiations with the sector, so as not to add a problem when the sector does not really know about it at the moment. I invite you to be cautious about this French lead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u120	I can add that my colleague is right. The situation in France is not a good example of finding a solution in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u121	Mr. Clarinval, you have the last word, but you agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u122	Minister, figures from the Central Bank for Private Credit show that in February 352 000 borrowers had at least one outstanding default contract, or about 5.7% of borrowers and an increase of 2.4 percent compared to last year. These figures are in line with the upward trend observed since 2008, both in terms of the number of debtors and in terms of the outstanding amount, which has increased by EUR 500 on average since 2011, to almost EUR 6 000. A growing proportion of the population is therefore having a difficult time to pay off their credits. Consumers often end up in this situation because they take on a credit that is higher than their financial situation allows. In order to protect both the consumer and the lender, the government agreement provides for the extension of the Central Bank for loans to private individuals. Extending it will give a better picture of the actual financial situation of the credit applicant and will protect insolvent consumers from credit that they cannot pay in time. With the recent publication of these figures, the problem is very topical. What's the status of the file? When will the Central Bank be extended for loans to private individuals? Do you recognize that this is really urgent? What debts will be included in that database?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u123	Mr Klaps, I can confirm that the preparatory work for the implementation of this point in the coalition agreement has already begun, in consultation with a number of actors. A thorough analysis should be carried out. This requires a large investment, including the ICT adjustment at the National Bank of Belgium, but also to whom the requested information should be provided. It's gonna take some time. The law must also be amended and objective legal criteria laid down. We're working on that. As far as your last question is concerned, great care must be taken with regard to the possible extension of the blacklists. We are aware that the rules on the protection of privacy must also be respected. There's a lot of work on the shelf, including the plant. We are in the process of getting concrete legislative changes and implementing the coalition agreement with all the actors involved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u124	Minister, I will be the last to deny that you have a lot of work to do. I can make a number of suggestions if you like. Indeed, it is better to work thoroughly than to work quickly. We agree on that. Privacy is indeed very important, but I think that we should try to protect consumers from themselves as much as possible when it comes to debt. The classic examples, including in the telecoms market and the electronic market, are well known. We have already discussed this during the debate on the government declaration. If such invoices remain unpaid, they will be flashing lights. I think it is particularly in the interests of consumers that these debts should be included in those lists, so that lenders can have a full view of the situation and, in certain cases, better not to grant the credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u125	Minister, on 20 March, we read in the newspaper that 178 Belgian supermarkets were running at a loss in 2013. The profitability of Belgian supermarkets appears to be under strong pressure. In 2011 only half as many supermarkets went in red. The cause would be price pressure in the retail sector. It is not new that supermarkets attract consumers by systematically lowering their prices. Consumers benefit from this for the time being, but it is at the expense of both suppliers and supermarkets. In 2009, the chain consultation was launched, followed by the voluntary code of conduct for fair relationships between suppliers and buyers in the agri-food chain on 20 May 2010. The aim was to create a win-win situation for all parties within the consultation. When signing the Code, they undertook to act as partners for the sustainable development of the whole agri-food chain, which should be in everyone's interest. Five years later, however, we see the chain story slipping into a loss-loss situation. The supermarkets compete against each other, thus systematically reducing their margins and making it a matter of survival for them in the long run. The same applies to farmers. The working methods of the supermarkets are mainly fresh products. Farmers must therefore be subject to price pressure. In the end, this unhealthy situation is gonna kill everyone. Hence my questions for you, Minister. Do you recognise that there is something thoroughly wrong in the agri-food chain, in the short and long term, as the losses accumulate on both sides? This cannot be a good thing for society. To what extent could the existing legal instruments, including the Price Observatory, in its present form, contribute to a structural solution to the unfair prices paid to farmers for their products? Do you see other possibilities to find a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gantois, I can answer your first question as follows. Although a number of businesses in the food retail sector were loss-making in 2013, I am referring to NACE code 4711 as a whole, this sector was profitable. On the basis of the annual accounts of the National Bank's balance sheet centre, the retail trade generated an operational net operating margin of 3.3 % on average in 2013 compared to 3.8 % on average in the period 2006-2012. This margin was therefore slightly lower than in the previous period. The food industry as a whole, which is NACE code 10, has also shown positive results in recent years. In 2013, that sector achieved a net operating margin of 3.3 %, where the average for the period 2006-2012 was 3.1 %, so it was slightly above it. These figures, of course, do not say everything. Indeed, for a multitude of reasons, some sectors are more difficult than others. To say that all parties in the agri-food chain accumulate losses, you need to look at them with some nuance, because I think that is going a little too far. In doing so, I have provided you with the figures we have collected. Secondly, the Price Observatory can, of course, contribute to discussion of the margin in the agricultural sector through quarterly and annual reports focusing on the analysis of total inflation, consumers, evolution of the underlying product groups and explanatory factors for the determined price trend, research aimed at increasing transparency in the prices, costs and margins of all links in the beef, dairy and pig column. In addition, the FPS Economy is also a valued partner in the consultation within the agri-food chain. The FPS Economy provides objective analyses that try to frame market forces. In this way the FPS Economy also plays an intermediate role as facilitator and objectivator of the consultation. Thirdly, at Belgian level, the participants in the chain consultation indicate that this is working well in their view. They indicate that they are not in favour of the system as in the United Kingdom for the time being, where non-compliance with agreements between retailers and suppliers with police authority can be enforced. I remember you asking an actual question about this a while ago. I can only observe that the participants in the chain talks are not wild about that, to put it so carefully. I am currently working with the sector to see how the interprofessional agreements concluded in the agricultural sector can be made more enforceable. In this respect, I would also refer to the policy statement, in which I indicated that I would provide for better protection rules for smaller entrepreneurs who are victims of an imbalance in their trade relations with large companies. That is point 16 of the policy statement. You have asked me once whether the United Kingdom is not a good example. In this respect, it is said that this is not exactly what we are asking for, but that there is a demand for greater enforcement of the inter-professional agreements. We are now in full consultation with a view to finding a solution which is also supported by the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u127	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Apparently, the picture that the newspapers are sketching doesn't reflect the whole picture. I note, however, that we did not know in the past that the high level of competition also caused problems for the chains. So that seems to me to be a new element that occasionally emerges. Comeos, the federation of Belgian retail, also warns against unhealthy pressure on margins. I am pleased that we can talk about greater enforceability. I also understand that the independent supervisor is not the first option right away, but I really believe that we need to be clear about how consumer prices are achieved and how profit margins are distributed at the various links. I think I can say that this is why we need watchdogs who bark when they need to and bite them when they need to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u128	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 3407 is being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u129	Mr President, Minister, the so-called Partyka Act has been in force since 1 January 2015. That law was introduced to make debt balance insurance more accessible and affordable for chronically ill persons and persons suffering from severe illness or undergoing surgery. Today, that law is in full effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u130	An important fact within the Partyka Act is the successor agency for the pricing of debt balance insurance. This body is composed of representatives of the insurance sector and representatives of patients and consumers and is chaired by an impartial chairman. In addition, an ombud service and a secretariat are the further pillars of that structure. However, we are getting more and more reports from patients and consumer organisations, among others, who are concerned and who are asking questions about the modalities and the way in which the law is being worked out. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain the relationship and structure between the Secretariat and the Ombudsperson of the Follow-up Office? How do you feel about the fact that the current composition and structure does not benefit the objectivity and autonomy of the Bureau? At present there is still uncertainty about the scope in the time of the Partyka Act. Can you explain that scope? In other words, are there any presons who are currently negotiating a refinancing of their housing credit? What does that mean for their balance-sheet insurance? The Follow-up Office shall decide by consensus on pending cases. If there is no consensus, it will come to a vote in which the neutral chairman's vote is decisive. However, there are no criteria on which the President should base his voting behaviour. What will you do to remove that gap?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u131	Mr Van Hoof, first of all, the law itself states that the secretariat of the Follow-up Office is embedded in the insurance ombudsdienst. A staff member of the Ombuds service shall be assigned to the Secretariat of the Follow-up Office. He is under the functional direction of the chairman and is in no way involved in mediation in insurance matters. The Secretariat shall provide material, organisational and operational support to the Office. The secretary is present at the discussions but does not take part in the decisions. I see no threat to objectivity or autonomy. Second, Articles 212 to 224 of the Insurance Act entered into force on 30 December 2014. For any refusal or premium of more than 75% to which an insurer decides for medical reasons from 30 December 2014, the policyholder may apply to the Succession Bureau for the pricing. When the decision of the insurance undertaking was notified before 30 December 2014, this is not the case. The law provides that the balance of debt insurance is to cover, firstly, the repayment of the capital of a mortgage credit, secondly, the acquisition or conversion of the policyholder's own and sole family home. However, the law does not determine a condition relating to the timing of the credit itself. Where the mortgage credit and the related balance of debt insurance were concluded before 30 December 2014, this insurance contract is not covered by the new scheme. If an insurer would decide to terminate its current insurance policy and ask an insurer to enter into a new balance of debt insurance, the handling of this application will be done through the newly established mechanism. Where a mortgage credit was entered into before 30 December 2014, i.e. without a corresponding balance of debt insurance, the policyholder may submit an insurance application that will fall within the new scheme. In the event of refusal or a supplement of more than 75% for medical reasons, this policy holder will be able to apply to the Succession Office. I don't think there's any danger of anti-selection. The Partyka Act does not touch the principle of freedom of contracting. I'm not considering any additional measures. The law has only been in force for a short time. I will continue to carefully evaluate this, as you have done, and pay due attention to it, and at the right time consider whether an adjustment should be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. It is a good thing that you are following this issue closely because it is new, and if there is an imbalance or if no decision can be taken, it will be possible to intervene in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u133	The combined question No. Mrs Smaers' 3425 expires. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 3437 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 3502. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 3528 and No. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 3529 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u134	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, my question is not about the alcoholiests used by the police, but about those that can be found in commerce. The Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) has presented a press release describing a study which shows that the majority of electronic alcohols sold on the market are unreliable and that some, because of their high inaccuracy, can even be dangerous. The analysis covered 24 types of devices. Of the 24 alcoholiests that were studied, only 6 met the accuracy requirements during the tests. The majority of these products, sometimes sold very expensive, are therefore unreliable. The result is a disturbing danger. In fact, when the alcoholic indicates an alcohol level below the actual value, this gives the driver the feeling that he can get back on the steering wheel without having to worry about his potential state of intoxication. The IBSR states that it is necessary to "check that this type of alcohol is configured in the correct unit and meets Belgian requirements". Minister, what steps can be taken to ensure the reliability of electronic alcohols sold on the Belgian market? Has the IBSR provided any concrete proposals on this issue? Is there a need for better control of trade in this type of product? Would it be necessary, for example, to place a label on a quality product?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u135	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Friart, my administration informed me that she had not been contacted by the IBSR. The answer to the problem is found in the provisions of Book VI of the Code of Economic Law which prohibit misleading commercial practices. The fact that a product does not produce the result it promises or the simple fact that a commercial practice can deceive the average consumer on the main characteristics (benefits, usability, etc.) is a prohibited unfair practice. I have therefore asked my administration to contact the IBSR and to conduct a thorough investigation in the light of this legal provision. Thus, I do not think there is any need for further measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u136	Minister, thank you. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u137	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 3662 is being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u138	Mr Minister, we were told that a recent American geological study shows that valuable materials, which are increasingly incorporated in products such as shampoo and detergents, but also in more technologically advanced products, are driving through our sewers. The cause would be human feces that apparently contain traces of gold, silver and platinum. There would be a fortune to be made by taking these and other metals out of the sewer waste. A study by Arizona State University confirmed that in a city of 1 million inhabitants there would be 12 million euros per year of such materials in the sewerage system. For example, according to this study, 1 kilo of sewage waste contains 0.4 milligrams of gold, 28 milligrams of silver, 638 milligrams of copper and 49 milligrams ofdium chloride. These levels correspond to some commercial mines. Not only the economy would benefit, but it also has an ecological aspect of metal extraction. Sewage waste also contains harmful metals such as lead. By removing the metals from the waste water, these harmful materials can be eliminated and at the same time the valuable materials can be recovered. In addition, the great advantage would be that, contrary to the classical method of metal mining, no harmful chemicals such as percolates are needed. The economic and ecological aspect is thus linked together and reconciled with each other. So this is a real win-win situation. I have a few questions for you, Minister. What is your view on the treatment of sewer waste, read human feces, to valuable materials? Have any initiatives been taken on this issue? Is this being discussed? Do you consider it feasible to handle this in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u139	Mrs. Gantois, I can be quite short. As a minister, I can only say that any initiative that can contribute to a more sustainable economy, such as the recovery of valuable materials, wherever they happen, is to be welcomed. As Minister of Economy, I note that companies do not wait for legislative initiatives. For example, Umicore is considered one of the world's leaders in the field of the recovery and reuse of precious metals. Many companies are active in the field of waste collection, treatment and recycling. They may also be interested in this. Now I must draw your attention to something you do know: waste management policy is a regional competence. I do not want to go into this area because it is not desirable. My fellow Members in the Regions are doing very well. Of course, the federal government remains responsible for waste prevention, but I have to refer to the colleague responsible for the Environment. From my competence for Economics, I can only welcome the fact that companies may also take initiatives in this area. I hope, when this happens, that the necessary permits will be granted and that the necessary agreements can be made with either regional colleagues or my colleague for the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u140	Minister, the areas overlap from time to time. I will certainly pass this on to one of my fellow Members in the other policy area. It was a weird question that was completely outside my other questions. It is likely that a cost-benefit analysis will have to be carried out in order to determine whether this is really so economical. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u141	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 3751 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u142	Mr President, I am glad to be able to ask this question. Minister, the press recently announced that more than 700 savers had been scammed for a total amount of more than EUR 250 million, which is a huge sum. Saarders invested their money in foreign branch 23 funds offered by their insurer or broker in the hope of obtaining a high return. However, the funds turned out to be products of crooks that are part of international gangs. At the end of last year thousands of Belgians were also victims of a rogue French company, which was declared bankrupt after a large amount of capital was collected. The press also mentions that to date customers are investing in funds that are known to be spent by crooks. The insurance sector is therefore a long-standing party asking for insurance products to be checked by the FSMA before entering the Belgian market. The responsibility for the quality of investment insurance lies with the manufacturer of the product. If the manufacturer is a criminal organisation, there is a real chance that the corrupted customers will never see their money again. Measures are urgently needed to protect consumers. After all, these practices continue today. What can you do, Minister, to better protect the consumer from such malicious practices? Have you had any discussions with the professional associations in order to find a solution? What role do you think the FSMA should play to prevent customers from buying such counterfeit products? Could the FSMA offer more protection on this subject pending a necessary European directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u143	Mr Klaps, I have a comprehensive answer here. The essence of it is that I have asked the FSMA to organise a round of consultations with Belgian insurers on the most appropriate way of preventing such practices, taking into account the well-known regulatory constraints. In this way, we respond to your legitimate question and concern. I could explain this to you, but I am sure you know all about European and Belgian competences and what the FSMA can and cannot do. Once again, the most important thing is that I asked the FSMA to organise a consultation round.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-28-54-commissie-ic148x.u144	Minister, there are indeed a number of directives and procedures in place. Practice shows that the dossier needs to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, as indeed with many other dossiers on which I am asking questions. So there's a lot of work on the shelf. I understand that not everything can be done quickly, but this is about serious sums of money. Savers sometimes see their entire savings go up in smoke, which we must limit as much as possible. So I look forward to the outcome of the consultation round.
