ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the Integrated Report service is responsible for reporting, so we should not designate a reporter. I propose that we first give the floor to the people of Electrabel for their presentation, then the committee members can make their questions and comments. Mr De Clercq has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, following the hearing in committee with Mr Bens last August on the situation of the nuclear park, you asked that the operator also give some explanation about the situation of the park and the events of the last few weeks. Hence my presence here. Since a few days a fact has been added, namely in Tihange 1; I shall come back to this later on at the end of my speech. First, I give an overview of the situation in the seven nuclear units, then I review the events in last summer's nuclear park, in particular the pro-justitia sent by the FANC to the operator of Tihange, the safety stop in Tihange 3 on 13 August and the safety stop in Tihange 1 on Friday 18 September. You already know the overview slide of my previous visits with an overview of the park in Doel with four nuclear units, representing 2 911 megawatts and in Tihange with three nuclear units, representing a total of 3 008 megawatts, all of which were hired between 1975 and 1985. What's the situation today for Target 1 and 2 units? Following the agreement within the Government of December 2014, the legislative amendment was adopted on 18 June 2015 extending the operating period by 10 years. We submitted a technical dossier to the FANC on 17 April 2015 for the lifetime extension of Objectives 1 and 2. On 11 September 2015, that technical dossier received a favourable opinion from the Scientific Council on the methodology to be followed, provided, of course, the implementation of an action plan, which we must deliver to the FANC before the beginning of December. Since there are several conditions to be met, before there will be an extension of Objectives 1 and 2 there is the legal aspect; the operator and the government have to agree on the economic conditions, and a technical agreement by the FANC is required, we, as an operator, held talks with Minister Marghem's cabinet during the first half of this year, which resulted on 29 July 2015 in an agreement in principle on the economic conditions for extending the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2. What are the next steps? I'll deal with that in a technical manner later. In October 2015 there will be inspections of the reactor tanks of Objectives 1 and 2 by analogy with the problems of the reactor vessels of Objective 3 and Tihange 2, which I will come back to later. There are discussions with Minister Marghem's cabinet with a view to signing a convention by 30 November at the latest between the owner of the power stations, ourselves, and the government, in order to make the agreement in principle on economic conditions more concrete. From a technical point of view, of course, the action plan with a number of actions and inspections, which we agreed with the FANC, must have been implemented before we can talk about a lifetime extension. What's the status of Target 1? Target 1 was linked to its 40th anniversary on 15 February 2015, as laid down by law. During the winter 2015-2016, Objective 1 may be available to help ensure the supply of electricity, as registered in the Law of 18 June. We have also lighted the various steps in the purchase process of the fuel, so that we normally have the fuel at our disposal by winter. Of course, the FANC must agree on the various technical measures and the results of the various inspections to be carried out before the start of Objective 1 in December. Nowadays, Target 1 is still. The situation of Objective 2 is slightly different. The 40th anniversary of Objective 2 will be on December 1, 2015. Target 2 is running at maximum power. Normally, Objective 2 will be shut down from 17 October to 15 December 2015. This allows us to save fuel, making Objective 2 available in the winter months of January, February and March. From our position, Target 2 may be available. This is also included in the Law of 18 July 2015. The current fuel cycle can be recovered to allow Target 2 to run in winter. But, of course, the FANC must agree on a number of prior actions, which we have proposed and which were agreed with the FANC, including on inspections and some so-called pre-conditions, prior conditions so that the units can operate after the 40th anniversary. The current situation of Objective 2 is therefore that it runs until 17 October, after which Objective 2 will be shut down. Now I come to Tihange 1. Tihange 1 was shut down last summer from 20 June to 15 September, to carry out the work on the first safety train in the framework of the lifetime extension. Today Tihange 1 is still after last Friday's incident, which I will come back to in more detail at the end of my speech. The works on the first safety train are actually the implementation of the programme agreed with the FANC on the extension of lifespan. It was agreed that some modifications and modifications will be made on the first safety train before the 40th anniversary and some changes on the second safety train after the 40th anniversary. The 40th anniversary of Tihange 1 will be on October 1, 2015. As you can see on the slide, there will be a new stop from 23 April to 5 July 2016 to ensure the execution of the works on the second safety train. It is important to note that in the framework of the BEST programme, the programme drawn up after the Fukushima accident, a number of major works were already carried out on the Tihange site and in particular on the Tihange 1 unit. The most visible of these works, which I have already explained in the past, is the flood protection wall, built along the Meuse around the Tihange site. That yard is completely closed down. One is in the finalization phase and a number of mechanical works still have to be done. In December 2016, in Tihange 1, there will be a follow-up to last year's SALTO mission or early this year's mission.I have just lost the exact date to be carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency, responsible for such audits. A SALTO mission shall check whether the unit and the organisation are ready for a lifetime extension. A team of experts from the IAEA will carry out an audit on the spot. For the last SALTO mission, the general conclusion was that Tihange 1's site was ready for a lifetime extension. The audit team provided a number of points of interest and of this it will follow up in December 2016. At the moment Tihange 1 is still, but I will come back later in detail. What is the status of Target 3 and Tihange 2 units? Those units have been shut down since March 2014. In the context of the problem of hydrogen flakes or hydrogen inclusions or défauts à l'hydrogéne, we have launched an extensive research programme with dozens of experts since March 2014. These are experts from within the group - Tractebel Engineering, Laboralec and Electrabel - and people from the SCK. We have also called on a number of external experts, the best experts worldwide in the various fields. Today is the situation that the safety file was delivered to the FANC in mid-July. We have consolidated all the results of the material tests into a safety file. In recent months, as a result of a number of meetings held with its international experts, the FANC has made a number of recommendations and requested a number of additional actions. The recommendations and actions have been formulated by the FANC and the IRB, the International Review Board. The FANC has gathered a number of international experts around to help analyse the file and ask the appropriate questions. All the recommendations made by the FANC and IRB in December 2014 have been included in our safety studies. The purpose of the study is to demonstrate the structural integrity of the reactor vessel in the most extreme situations, which is the accident situation, providing sufficient safety margins to ensure that the structural integrity of the reactor vessel is preserved in all circumstances. Our studies, based on the measurement results on the one hand and the results of the material tests carried out on the other, and all of this incorporated in the finite element calculations, have shown that we can restart the two units with sufficient safety margins. In this sense, the dossier was delivered to the FANC on 17 July this year. The FANC in turn delivered that file to the International American Laboratory, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. That laboratory will assist the FANC in the analysis of the dossier, to verify that the methodologies used are indeed correct and to verify that the safety margins have been taken sufficiently high. It will deliver its advice to the FANC in the coming weeks. Eventually, as stated on the slides, the FANC will decide on the restart of both units. For reasons of safety, therefore, Objective 3 and Tihange 2 are being suspended today, pending a decision by the FANC on the re-launch. I am now highlighting the state of Objective 4. Following the problems with the turbine's lubricating oil in August 2014, the Objective 4 unit has been reconnected to the grid since 19 December 2014. On 28 August 2015, we shut down the unit for the planned 10-year review. The unit will normally remain in review until mid-October 2015. The next revision is in April-May 2017. Some units are in an annual cycle, which means that they are shut down every year for a reload and a revision. For example, target 4 is in an 18-month cycle, just like Tihange's units. This means that the units are shut down every 18 months for reload, overhaul and maintenance of the components. The condition of Tihange 3 is next. Tihange 3 is currently running at maximum power and has had a 10-year revision in spring 2015, from 24 March to 11 May 2014. A number of inspections were carried out on that occasion and a number of maintenance programmes are foreseen. Among other things, the reactor cover has been replaced preventively. The next revision of Tihange 3 will take place in September-October 2016, as Tihange 3 is also running in an eighteen-month cycle. Today Tihange 3 is connected to the net. That was a brief review of the state of play for the seven nuclear units. I shall now give more details on the events that have called for our attention in recent weeks. The presentation by Mr Bens on the projustitia sent to Tihange's operators at the beginning of August gave an overview of the various technical incidents that have occurred. I'll take it back on the slides, but I won't go into detail unless you have specific questions. I can then go into more detail after the round of questions. I'd like to start by sketching the history of the pro-justitia, and what our actions were after the pro-justitia. Of course, I will also explain our action plan in more detail. On 13 July, the FANC notified the various breaches of the technical specifications. Both the site Goal and the site Tihange received such a letter. For non-nuclear initiates, the technical specifications describe the operating conditions and limits of the power plant in normal operating procedures. These specifications describe how to act, what are the limits and criteria to be met, and how to act in certain situations of anomaly. For example, in the technical specifications, it is mentioned that there is a need for as many safety equipment per system and it is up to the operator to ensure that the number required by the technical specifications is present. In the event of an anomaly of one of the equipment, the technical specifications describe the compensatory measures to be put in place and the time frame for re-starting or repairing the equipment in question. This is the context of technical specifications. These are all the rules that the operator must follow in order to operate the plant safely. These technical specifications shall be included in the operating authorisation. This is clearly identified in the operating authorisation. The technical specifications are mentioned. Bel V, the technical control body of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), is responsible for the correct implementation of these specifications. The specifications also describe how to communicate anomalies or deviations from the technical specifications. Derogations from technical specifications are often heard. What is this? In certain circumstances, the operator must perform maintenance work on security equipment. It may happen that, contrary to what is written in the technical specifications, one or the other equipment must be rendered unavailable in order to perform maintenance work. Before starting this kind of work, in some cases, there is a way to request a derogation from the technical specifications. The operator shall carry out a technical analysis, a nuclear safety analysis and this synthesis shall be submitted to Bel V, the technical centre of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, for approval. If this synthesis is approved, it would mean, in this case, that the operator is required to carry out work under derogation. Equipment may be made unavailable contrary to what is specified in the technical specifications, for a limited period of time and subject to the introduction into service of certain compensatory measures. This is the whole derogation procedure. In recent months, and mainly in the spring, during the Tihange 3 stop, Electrabel's teams have found different breaches of these technical specifications. During this decision in Tihange 3 in the spring, there were several exceedances of the intervention deadlines agreed with Bel V, and therefore with the security authorities, which were specified in the derogation procedures. This cannot be done, because a derogation clearly states that there is a limited intervention time which cannot be exceeded. These events were all analyzed internally and an event-specific action plan was drafted. Apart from this failure to comply with the conditions and time limits during the derogation interventions, there were two other events during the Tihange 3 decision when the technical specifications were not scrupulously complied with. They're mentioned on the slide. There was a discharge of water following a rinsing of a pit in the engine room without prior verification of the availability of the activity chain. Normally, before water is released, the non-activity of the water is measured; and this chain was unavailable. There was, as part of a derogation, an exceedance of a time limit agreed with the safety authorities concerning work on a fire circuit in Tihange 3. Here you see different infringements of the technical specifications. In early July, there was another violation in Tihange 2 of the non-conformity of a test performed on equipment. In fact, the operator found that the test which had been carried out for several months did not correspond to the objective of the test. And so, transparently, when we see these kinds of anomalies, there is a communication that is made to Bel V and AFCN saying that we have found an anomaly contrary to the technical specifications and that we are going to correct the situation. And an action plan is drawn up. All these events led to the letter sent by the Agency, which was received on 13 July by the operator of Tihange and Doel. We have undertaken various actions, mainly on information and communication and awareness-raising activities for operators. We have decided to put in place an action plan for the beginning of this month with the aim of enhancing the knowledge and correct application of technical specifications. So a more lasting reinforcement of the knowledge of technical specifications by the operators and mainly by the operators in the control room. These actions mentioned on this slide were stopped and decided by myself and the owners of the sites, the following days, on the 14th and 15th. Unfortunately, in the days following the Agency's letter, other events took place in Tihange. They are listed on the next slide. All these events, all these offences were reported to the Nuclear Control Agency. After the event of 29-30 July, the Agency decided to draft a pro justitia covering all the events, but it is mainly the event of 29 and 30 July that is the subject of the pro justitia sent to the Huy Public Prosecutor's Office on 3 August and notified to the operator on Monday 3 August. If I resume briefly the various events, on 14 July there was the blocking of a valve for the isolation of the enclosure in an open position, without the measures prescribed in the technical specifications for operation being taken. The operator in the control room found himself facing a technical problem and did a safety analysis. In order to avoid the consequences of the malfunction of this enclosure isolation valve, he took certain measures that were not in accordance with the technical specifications. This was not reported within the agreed time frame. On July 27, there was a chain of measurement of the activity of a cooling circuit that was rendered unavailable by the shutdown of an electrical panel. When making this type of component and measurement chain unavailable, manual measurement is mandatory every eight hours. Operators have taken action every 24 hours, which is not in line with the technical specifications and therefore constitutes an infringement. On July 29, the technical specifications were not met as a result of an inadequate change in operating documentation. Documents and procedures for testing the operating procedures have been modified in relation to a change in the facilities that has not subsequently been carried out. So, they pre-emptively changed the documents, but the amendment was eventually not implemented and the documents were no longer in line with reality. On 29 and 30 July, another incident occurred in Tihange 3. There has been an exceedance of the repair time of a valve for the isolation of the enclosure on a fire circuit – a classified and qualified valve, which is taken over in the technical specifications and for which different measures should have been taken by the operator. Following the latter event, the Agency decided to deposit a pro justitia with the Huy Public Prosecutor's Office, notified to the operator. At the same time, it notified him of the decision to suspend the authorization to operate the plant of four employees, requesting a drafting of the analysis of the causes and, of course, the establishment of an action plan and a more precise plan of action for the rehabilitation of the 4 employees who have been withdrawn from their operating licence. We take this pro justitia very seriously, it is a warning from the Agency. It is out of the question of minimizing the facts. Variances with regard to technical specifications were noted. These deviations cannot be tolerated. The nuclear sector is a highly controlled sector, perhaps the most controlled at the global level. The rules are becoming more and more stringent, and it must be noted that the Agency has responded firmly and in the right way to infringements, technical specifications. Nuclear safety is at the heart of our business, it is a priority in the operation of our power plants and it is our trademark. As a nuclear leader, I would like to see confidence restored in nuclear safety, a confidence that has been called into question by the events that have taken place. Following the drafting of this pro justitia by the Agency, an immediate response from Tihange and Doel management took place in order to draw up an action plan for all employees with the aim of strengthening the safety culture. Immediate measures have taken place as well as short-term measures and more fundamental measures will be put in place in the coming weeks and months. On the other hand, we have a plan of action focused on the fact that 4 of our employees have been withdrawn from their operating licences. This action plan has been approved by the Agency and within a few weeks the measures should be taken to rehabilitate the 4 employees suspended. I would like to go back to the action plan in more detail. For all of our people, the action plan must focus on rigour and responsibility. Rigor because the nuclear sector is a sector where we must all be very rigorous; we must apply the rules very strictly. As you will see, various short- and medium-term actions have been identified to restore confidence in this area. Increased vigilance measures have been put in place. There is the short-term action plan on the one hand and the more comprehensive action plan on the safety culture. The safety culture represents a set of elements in the behavioral domain of each agent, each for his or her profession. These are attitudes, human behavior. The culture of safety is really the foundation, the basis of our profession, and we want to place it as high as possible. I would like to share with you some examples of different actions. In the first part of the Action Plan, in the enhanced vigilance measures, various internal procedures have been adapted with regard to the application of technical specifications and derogations. This includes an enhanced quality control which is put in place when the technical specifications are applied to ensure that the individual who takes the technical specifications and interprets and applies them is not mistaken and applies them correctly. Various actions have also been taken in the field of communication between different departments and services, mainly maintenance and operation. As I explained to you, there have been overruns in terms of response times. The analysis of the root causes has shown that, at times, poor communication between operators is the cause of this kind of exceedance. A second part deals with the knowledge and interpretation of technical specifications. You have to learn from his experiences. Sometimes a team is faced with any situation in which it has to apply the technical specifications. We want to reinforce the principle that all teams must be able to take advantage of these experiences and to communicate more fully the different situations encountered by the operating teams in the control room. In the context of short-term actions, there have been various actions, including strengthening the hierarchy's response to anomalies and communicating and raising awareness about the safety culture. It should be noted that in the days following the deposit of the pro justitia, every staff member of Doel and Tihange was seen by the site's director to make them aware of the good respect and scrupulous respect for the technical specifications. The CEO of our company met with the Tihange management team to understand what was happening and to stress the importance of strict compliance with technical specifications. Various actions have also been defined in the context of strengthening quality control and decisions taken by shift crews (the teams that are in control rooms) where it is found that outside working hours there is a slightly greater tendency to decide in a correct way but to take responsibility and not always to have decisions taken by the hierarchy or by nuclear safety advisers approved. A large part of this concerns everything that is training and basic knowledge on the one hand for new and continuous knowledge for operators in service of the technical specifications and criteria of the safety report. Several actions have been defined in this direction. It is also a major point of the longer-term global plan. We must, as planned in the following weeks, review our training programmes, on the one hand, for the retraining of operators in control rooms and, on the other hand, for the knowledge of the technical specifications of each employee working on a Tihange site. We also requested the assistance of international experts from INPO and WANO to help us analyse the root causes. And especially in order to be able to take advantage of the experiences of these international experts in this kind of situation. In conclusion, the pro justitia sent to us by the Agency, we take it very seriously. We are not minimizing the situation at all. The Agency has issued a warning and we want to respond appropriately, with an action plan that is based on continuous improvement and that will enable us to strengthen nuclear safety with each active agent at a nuclear site and with the nuclear corporate. Nuclear safety is an integral part of Electrobel's identity. I assure myself that we can regain confidence in this matter. Standards and requirements are increasingly stringent, teams need to be sensitized and trained continuously. As I explained in the action plan, we will review the content of our training plans and the frequency with which we will offer retraining to our operators. Every year, we give about 150,000 hours of training for nuclear workers, representing 5% of the total time of our nuclear workers. We have called the action plan "Strengthening and Accountability Action Plan" because all the actions proposed in it and all the actions that have been taken concern a strengthening of rigour and a strengthening of responsibility with adequate quality control, to be sure that we install different catch-up nets in the event of a malfunction of one or the other individual. The pro justitia is addressed to Tihange but all actions in the action plan are also valid for the Doel site and for the corporate nuclear in Brussels. That is the case with pro justitia. I would like to return to two technical problems that have arisen in recent weeks. The first is the Tihange 3 emergency stop, the automatic stop on August 13. On 13 August, Tihange 3 power plant was shut down automatically, safely. It should be noted that the principle of automatic shutdown is a basic principle. When technically, there is one or the other equipment that no longer functions properly or that no longer performs its functions properly, the power plant will get into the safest state, which is called a hot shutdown. In the reactor where there are the combustible elements, the control bars are dropped, and therefore all nuclear activity is stopped at that time with the insertion of the control bars, which leads to a triggering of the plant. The power plant is decoupled from the Belgian grid and no longer produces electricity on the grid. This is called an automatic stop or an emergency stop. This is a safe situation for the reactor. It is a usual procedure, I hope not too frequent, because the aim is not to have automatic stops, the aim is still to produce megawatt-hours safely. But the operators are trained, are trained on the simulator, we simulate emergency stops and then there is a whole procedure to be followed to identify the root causes of the stop before we can restart the unit. Operators in the control room are trained, receive recycling to be used to such situations. What happened on August 13? Tihange 3 plant, at about 1:00 a.m., stopped due to a defect on a control bar group. The bars fell, the reactor was shut down. As the procedures provide, we (Electrabel) must immediately inform the market, in accordance with the rules of transparency, to say, "there are 1,000 MW that have disappeared from the production fleet and it will take as long before the plant is recoupled on the grid again". In-house, thanks to the diversified Electrabel park, the loss of 1,000 MW was immediately replaced by other power plants. After the plant is shut down, the operating crews monitor the safe condition of the unit and the maintenance crews begin to search for the origin of the shutdown. It can sometimes take a little time, a few hours, because before we can restart the power plant, we really want to identify the root cause of the shutdown and sometimes it takes hours, sometimes days, before we can really say "here, the root cause of the emergency shutdown is the malfunction of certain equipment". In this case, it took a little time. At the same time, there is also a whole series of repairs to be made. Identifying the cause is one thing, but it must also be repaired. One of the actions we also take when a power plant is shut down automatically is to scan all the open works to see if there is no work to be done when the power plant is shut down. We then seize the opportunity. That is a way of saying since we would have preferred not to be the stop. What was achieved on Tihange 3, since we planned a shutdown of the plant at the end of October to intervene on one of the valves of the pressurizer. As the plant was still at a standstill, we decided to move ahead with the maintenance work that was originally planned in October and in accordance with the rules, it was announced to the market by the famous messages on the transparency website. Since 27 August, Tihange 3 has been on the network again, after repairing the various actions that were planned. Tihange 1, now. On 18 September, Friday evening at around 11:30 p.m., Tihange 1 triggered a technical failure of a water pump in the non-nuclear part of the plant. There are pumps that push the water of the condenser, finally the steam, to drive the turbine, which falls into the condenser where the steam turns into water. This water – there are different exchangers, but let's make it simple – is pumped back into the steam generator by what is called a food pump. The shaft of one of the various lubricating pumps attached to it is broken. This caused the food pump to stop. In this case, the regulation must be able to compensate, since one of the two pumps stopped abruptly. But the regulation could not compensate. There's security in the steam generators. If they do not receive enough water, the power plant is automatically shut down. On Friday night, following a problem with a water feed pump, the steam generator's automatic safeguards worked properly. The power plant was shut down. The market shall be immediately informed of this initiation via the REMIT system. It was announced that the 1,000 MW had disappeared from the Belgian network. Identification of the problem took a little time. The pump was repaired. When all the work that was still in progress was examined, a technical defect was observed on a valve in the fire system of the primary pumps. To this end, the maintenance teams and the nuclear safety teams have developed different scenarii for repair. The AFCN insisted that the repair be done in full cold shutdown of the unit, which was decided yesterday in the course of the afternoon. When you say cold shutdown of unity, it takes about ten days right away. The plant is shut down, but it needs to be cooled, the steam generators drained, the procedures performed, and then the unit must be restarted. This takes a total of about ten days, which has resulted in Tihange 1's current restart date estimated as September 30, 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u3	Thank you for the explanation, Mr De Clercq.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u4	Mr De Clercq, thank you for your statement on behalf of Electrabel on what matters are now under way. I will treat them in the reverse order you presented them in. The attention of our committee will, after all, go first of all to what happened after the pro-justitia. After all, that's the most striking thing. The previous meeting of our subcommittee made it clear that rules must be followed in this type of case, especially when it comes to nuclear safety. The safety culture is incredibly important. Such matters must not happen again. I think I understand that from your attitude towards pro-justitia. There are still a few questions. We know that safety culture needs to change. You risked an analysis of what has happened in recent years. How far back will it go? How wide will that analysis be? In what way do you proceed with that? A number of actions should strengthen the safety culture. Will an attempt be made to measure this? Will one check where the change is? You mentioned a change manager. How will the results be looked at in the field? We know that the FANC with the pro-justitia which suspended four people has used a sturdy stick. Will you also introduce such sticks internally, allowing you to intervene before the regulator has to intervene? A good system regulates itself. Hopefully you will never have to use those sticks, but the system must provide for immediate intervention. A few years ago, I believe in 2013, WANO published a report on the properties of a healthy nuclear safety culture. Other organisations may have made such a report in recent years. Did you get any inspiration from that report? Are there any documents mentioned in that report, which have not yet been translated into the action plan, which are now being put forward? After all, I think it is important that we learn lessons from what is happening abroad and that they should be integrated with us as soon as possible, so that the culture of security can be absolutely restored to what it should be. In the case of incidents, this analysis is important. There may also be experience of how safety culture has been handled in recent years. Perhaps you have some experience of that yourself. You're from the practice. Can we also draw lessons from your experience so that we can make progress in this area? When it comes to the situation of Objective 3 and Tihange 2, we have always talked about the fragility of the fracture. As a result of a deviating test, a number of alarm bells have been triggered. What are the current findings in this respect? Does it comply with existing standards or should it be dealt with in a different way? Should the safety case be approached in a different way? Can you also tell us more about the big difference between the safety case that was made in 2012 and the safety case that has now been sent to the FANC in its first version? Can we hear more about this? Does that mean that the safety case you have now submitted must prove that both plants meet the standards initially set and imposed or is the case otherwise in place? When it comes to the extension for Tihange 1, there is the first safety train, which was carried out, as well as the building of the wall. Can you explain the contents of those safety trains? This is always a two-and-a-half to three-month standstill, as I have pointed out. In this way we will also have an insight into what this would mean for Objective 1 and Objective 2. How's the planning for those power stations? When will the first safety train be operated after the coming winter? Or are earlier steps being taken to roll out effective investments? It seems interesting to me to hear about Objective 1 and Objective 2 in terms of availability and so on. The presentation said that both could be available during the winter of 2015-2016. It is not entirely clear what this means for planning in practice. It is perhaps a good thing that you explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u5	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr De Clercq for having responded so quickly to Parliament's invitation. I would also like to thank him for the comprehensiveness of his explanations. I would still like to ask him a few questions and ask him a few clarifications. He first talked about Doel 1 and Doel 2. I will try not to repeat the same questions as my colleague, but I would also like to know whether he has an exact timetable for re-starting these reactors, as he envisages? For Doel 1, does he have any details regarding the delivery of the fuel? In general, for these two reactors, I was a little surprised... For Tihange 1, you talked about the achievement of a SALTO mission by the IAEA by saying that it was very important, that it was part of the practice to restart a reactor. You're talking about Tihange 1 but I feel like you're not talking about Doel 1 and Doel 2. I'm surprised. I assume that you will also talk about this and that it is also necessary to start these reactors. For Doel 3 and Tihange 2, we have these micro-crack problems that we have been talking about for some time in Parliament. Mr Bens comes to report to us very regularly. In his last report in the same sub-committee, I must say that we were quite surprised by his comments, since he told us that he had agreed orally on the safety case methodology. This has caused a bit of controversy in this sub-committee. I would therefore like to know exactly what you are based on and I will repeat what I said to Mr Bens. I am rather pessimistic about this problem because I find that it lasts a long time and I have the impression that we are trying by every means to find a solution to show that there is no danger but that we are not doing it. It's kind of simplistic, maybe, but I'm a very simple man and so I look at the problems with maximum simplicity. As a simple man that I am also, I watch television, the media and I see this multiplicity, this multitude, this multiplication of incidents in the nuclear sector. Of course, public opinion is concerned. We wonder what happens, whether this multiplication of incidents is normal, whether there have always been so many incidents, whether these incidents are ultimately due to a management problem? It is possible to ask the question today, when talking about reactors, if the incidents are due to the problem of outdatedness. Normally this question comes first when the age of the reactors is known. We wonder: before these problems did not take place and now almost every month there is an incident which is mentioned on television, in the media, which makes the headlines. Quite logically, it is possible to worry about it. In your slides you say that in recent months, the Electrabel teams have found different infringements of the technical specifications mainly concerning the exceeding of the time limits for intervention as provided for in the derogation procedure. When I see this slide, I'm a little caught up because by writing this, it seems that you're the one who controls Electrabel, but it's you Electrabel. You've found some offences, but Electrabel did the infractions. Maybe there's a problem in French writing, but you're expressing yourself as if you were the controller. In relation to the safety culture: we have the impression at each hearing either of the AFCN, or of the various actors in the nuclear industry, that each incident is well managed. We have the impression that the fires are still well extinguished, that you explain to us how you extinguished them. Nevertheless, I would like to know, why is it so often caught on fire?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u6	Mr President, I too would like to thank Mr De Clercq for his clear explanations and for his state of play on the various nuclear plants. In the past year, we have had a lot of discussions in our committee on energy and, above all, on nuclear energy. For the sake of security of supply, the lifetime of Objectives 1 and 2 was extended during this period. During the previous reign the life of Tihange 1 was extended for the same reason. One of the absolute conditions mentioned was the absolute safety of these plants. There must be no doubt about safety. The many incidents that have occurred in recent months have raised some questions. That is why two hearings have been held recently with Mr Bens of the FANC and with Electrabel today. Both explanations show above all that negligence, poor communication or human error are at the root of these incidents and events. For example, the intervention periods or other conditions of the technical specifications were not respected. Mr De Clercq, do you agree that for these reasons there are more errors at Tihange than at Doel, or are there other causes? Can you also say whether the number of incidents in comparable foreign power stations is higher, or are there incidents such as those in Belgian nuclear power stations? I also have a few specific questions, firstly about the analysis of events. The FANC has asked Electrabel to make a thorough and very detailed analysis. That was not clear to me from your statement. Perhaps you could look at the root causes. The FANC has also requested a training programme for Electrabel staff. The FANC asked to update the training. Does it mean that the staff were trained in the past, but not permanently or that the training was not very transparent at Electrabel? How did you used to deal with training and communication culture at the company? I have one final question about the trimesterial progress reports. Mr Bens put quite a lot of emphasis on this last time. They could be sent to our committee. Is this the case, or have you already worked out certain issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u7	Mr President, in preparing the file, I have taken stock of the incidents of the last few months: 9 July on Tihange 3, 14 July on Tihange 3, 27 July on Tihange 1, 29 July on Tihange 3, 13 August on Tihange 3, 8 September on Tihange 1 and you could hardly have done better if you had wanted, the day before your visit to the committee, another incident on 18 September on Tihange 1. You come as usual with factual, technical and relatively precise elements. For each problem, you have a technical answer. But the purpose of this meeting was not necessarily to be too much in technicality but rather in the culture in which the company was set up. I have also reviewed Mr Bens' remarks when he came here in committee. I suppose you've also seen them since they're accessible on the site. The boss of AFCN told us a month ago: "It's never before seen. What I was able to find out about security or rather the lack of a safety culture at the Tihange site is never seen." And you would like us parliamentarians, but above all the citizens to have confidence in nuclear power, to have confidence in Electrabel's ability to deal with the various problems, while incidents are multiplying, petitions are not enough, we must move on to pro justitia and we still do not have full clarity on the various elements? We have received from Mr.Bens – and I thank the services of the House who have followed this – the order that imposes a series of measures on you. You talked about the training plan. But article 3 of this decree says that you are responsible for establishing an assessment of the root causes of this type of event. Mr President, I very sincerely expected the representatives of Electrabel to explain to us here what are the root causes, not the technical causes. Each time – and I admire you on this – you have a technical answer and details of the dates, times, the mobilization of a particular team and the flow of information. Here, what we need is, on your part, an explanation of the assessment of root causes. Why, in this area, where there are many dangers, is the safety culture no longer present or, in any case, no longer present in the eyes of the Federal Agency? On this point, I hope that in the second round you will give a very detailed answer as to why this culture of safety was no longer present. This led Mr. Bens to say, "It's never been seen." I can quote from the excerpt, but as you read, I think you know what I'm talking about. More precisely and on an ad hoc basis, with regard to the three strands of your action plan, I would like to know the exact timetable. You have distinguished short-term actions from medium-term measures, but I would like to know the schedule of commitments you have made. The action plan is not limited to the three slides – and it is quite normal for you to present them; I have no problem, of course. But I would like the committee to be able to receive the full, precise and detailed action plan, since it has committed itself to regular monitoring - every three months, I believe - so that it can be followed with a timetable. I guess there's one. I would also like to return to the incident of 13 August. I thought it would be the last one, but it happens that we've had another one this weekend. On page nine, you feel quite logical – but, at home, it's always reassuring – that in the event of a technical problem, the unit will automatically stop. This is the slide you presented. However, we still do not know what the precise causes are. I reread what Mr Bens said in response to questions from my colleagues who wanted to know what the exact nature of the incident of 13 August was. We were on the 19th of August. So he probably didn't have all the elements yet. He explained: "A circuit broke down for a reason I don't know yet. We wanted to fix it. And it was by preparing this repair that the other circuit started. But we need to investigate to find out more." Of this, not a word today! On the investigation, but above all on the chain of events. What's subtle in your statement is that it feels like a little thing: "a subcircuit in a mini-pump that... And, for safety reasons, you understand, we're very secure, we stop everything." No. It is clear from the incident of 13 August that there is a chain of two or three elements. It was on this subject that we wanted to know more, to understand things in a precise way, in particular why this chain is in place when there should be security procedures. I will illustrate with the incident of September 18, the last one. You're telling us there was a technical failure of a power pump. But when a power pump fails, there is normally a pressure control system that is sufficient and does not automatically activate the closure. There is not always full closure and production shutdown. There is also a manual control system that did not work properly at that time. These are elements for more details about what you always call a technical anomaly. This is very interesting when you explain why, while the restart was planned for Sunday morning or Sunday night, almost by chance – and fortunately there was the Friday incident – you discover that there is a problem on the fire system of the primary pumps. There, the Federal Agency imposes on you a complete cold shutdown of the unit. It's actually something that adds to the problem of the pump that happened on Friday at 23.30 hours. It's something you find out more. What is paradoxical and what undermines confidence in the nuclear power plant, in Tihange and in Electrabel, is that the power plant was released by two and a half months or three months of repairs and updates. All these problems, you do not discover them at the time of the security work, we discover them afterwards, at the moment when the plant works. Inevitably, the link is made with the old buildings and facilities. The problem of trust is, of course, a problem of trust. I have to tell you that I didn't like it when you mentioned the idea that it was probably also related to the fact that standards are becoming more and more stringent. I think that is part of the lack of a culture of security that Mr Bens was talking about. Consider that the fault happens because there are too strict or increasingly strict rules and we are too controlled, we must not do it! Especially at a time when you are asking at the same time for an extension of the life of the oldest plants, which also pose problems. On this point, I wanted to go back to the timetable. I would like you to remind us how many months it took to update and pre-emptively prepare the extension of the Tihange 1 power plant. I think it must be about 20 months between the time of the decision and the time when Tihange 1 was extended. We had to do some work, we imposed things on engineers, etc. For Doel, we are told that everything will be ready in two or three months. There's a problem here. And he will raise further questions later, in other committees, and we will be told that despite the safety culture, we have had to deal with other types of emergency. I'd like you to remind us how long the update of the Tihange 1 site before extension took. I think it's about two years, but you'll tell us. It will be calculated in relation to Doel if the same level of safety can be achieved. We can speed things up, I'm aware, but going from two years to two months, frankly, we'll have to explain it to us. I go up into the various slides to get to the file of the cracked power plants of Doel 3 and Tihange 2. You say you handed over your first safety case to the Federal Agency. Does that mean you have knowledge of the report of the international experts? I'm looking at the two reports, both the International Review Board you talked about, but also the report from the American lab... I guess if you're giving the safety box, is it that you're aware of these different pieces? I would like to know when you received them and in what form you received these two reports, the first of the Board's international experts and the second of the American laboratory, so that you can move forward on your side and file your project already. I conclude with the question, also put in a relevant way by a colleague, on Doel 1 and Doel 2, and the lack of reference to the SALTO study. I'm not going to develop this, a colleague has already done it in a relevant way. You talk about it easily for Tihange 1 but the colleague pointed out something quite correct: you do not say a word about Doel 1 and Doel 2. We are therefore waiting for you in the second round for an answer on this subject. If you want more confidence, I think you have the opportunity to give very precise answers to the various questions asked, because quite frankly, there is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u8	[[Mr De Clercq, we have heard your explanations about the various incidents that have multiplied.]] Yes, it's pretty frightening. I knew the multiplication of breads but here we are faced with the proliferation of nuclear incidents. This is very worrying not only for the general public, but also for the one who runs the AFCN, who actually says it's never seen before. In relation to this 'never seen', are your explanations sufficient, Mr. De Clercq? I'm not sure. I don't know if you have children, but let's imagine you have a child coming with bad grades. The first time, he can explain that "it was a matter that I didn't know well, that's why I had a zero." The second time, he can give a second one-off explanation. The third time, another one-time explanation. But after a while, you'll be wondering if there's not a more structural problem, if your child doesn't have learning or laziness problems or anything. At some point, one-off explanations are no longer enough, we have to look for more structural explanations when there are such a multiplication of incidents. What can it be? We have mentioned this: either our plants are too old, even if in the case of Tihange 3, this is the most recent. Even the most recent ones in Belgium are not very young. So either it's a problem of old-fashioned power plants, or it's a problem of lack of vigilance, lack of commitment on the part of Electrabel to safety, or in the words of Mr Bens: "It's a problem of failure in the safety culture." What I also hear from some sources is that effectively Electrabel would easily save on prevention and safety. Of course, it is quite simple and easy to say that it is the fault of the staff that is not vigilant enough. When I listen to you, it is a bit like the feeling we have: "Yes, the staff is no longer in line with the security requirements we have today". If there are problems at the staff level, responsibility is not individual to staff members. The responsibility lies with the employer of this staff. There must be shortcomings in terms of training, in terms of number of people, in the organisation of work or in training. So, for Tihange 3... Or there are savings that are made, and that raises a question that we often ask about Electrabel: does not the culture of profit outweigh the culture of security? This is obviously something we cannot help thinking about, or in any case it is a question that we cannot help but have, especially when we hear the statements, I will again quote Jan Bens, of whom we know that it is a pro-nuclear 101% (to use his notions of percentages). I remember that interview in which Jan Bens said: "Before, Electrabel, it was a box of engineers where the technique prevailed. We were building beautiful, well-functioning power plants." We may or may not agree with this assessment, but it is always that he says: "Now, the most important thing is to make money". Now, the question we can ask you is: what's the most important thing about Electrabel? Is it a culture of profit or a culture of security? In relation to this, I have questions about Electrabel's preventive actions, for example regarding Tihange 3. If I understood correctly, it was a transformer that jumped. Are there any preventive replacements? When there is a hardware problem that jumps, was this material outdated, was it replaced in time? These are questions that arise. I also have questions in terms of personnel. I hear that there is an increasing number of subcontractings in nuclear power plants. Is that something you can confirm or invalidate? I mean, for example, that there would be 1,000 people in CDI, internal staff, compared to 600 subcontractors. I do not know if you can give details of the figures, of this proportion between "house" staff and number of subcontractors. Is the excessive use of subcontracting not a security problem? Of course, a subcontractor, we know that subcontractors are cheaper, that sometimes there are hidden costs, but in any case they are people who don't necessarily know everything about the house the same way as someone who works there. They're people who don't know the house thoroughly. There may also be problems with the lack of training of subcontractors. Can you help us with this, please give figures on the proportion of internal staff and subcontractors? Obviously, the training of the staff is not up to the level, I draw it from your own explanations. You tell us that at present there is 5% of the working time devoted to training. Before, was it more or less? Is there an increase or decrease in the time spent on training compared to a few years ago? What are your ambitions? You're saying you're going to improve the training and its level of requirement, safety awareness. Do you give numerical targets? Non-materialistic statements are good, but if you can tell us that you're going to go from 5% to 10% of training work time, it would be better than throwing things at us a little bit. In conclusion, I think it would be a little easy to say that it is "the fault of no luck" if there is a multiplication of such incidents. Are there no structural problems to be addressed in Electrabel's policy on investment in security, personnel, training? Is this not the problem that the culture of profit would prevail over the culture of security?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u9	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. De Clercq, for your presentation. If I may, a number of comments on your presentation where, obviously, you are presenting us with a culture of safety that will tend towards a more or a better one. That's what you're trying to show us today. I hope so, because the escalation of incidents, their number, is important; it is possible to repeat the time line. In particular, Mr Bens, in his participation in our committee in August, said, I quote, "Whatever the case, I have never personally been confronted with so many technical incidents in such a short time". And this is the first time that AFCN has reacted by a pro justitia, he said here in committee. Mr De Clercq, you have been, beyond your current position, director of Tihange. Do you remember a time when there were so many incidents on the Tihange site? Now that you control, in your current function, all the nuclear power plant parks, have there been such repeated incidents in Doel? So I wanted to hear you about that. When you talk about an incident, you seem to trivialize a number of things. So I would like to know what in your value scale is a normal incident or an abnormal incident. That raises a number of questions to me. I'd like to know how you tag them in relation to this check. In this issue of safety and security culture, you have referred to rigour and responsibility. These are the words you used today in your presentation. You say that there is a need to strengthen rigour and accountability. This means that these were not at all, it means that there were gaps in that sense. I quote Mr Bens in the previous committee: "This is also the first time that AFCN has reacted with a pro justitia". If there had been no pro justitia, would we have been in a long, quiet river, without attention to this security issue? Is this pro justitia the click or trigger that suddenly makes you realize that there is a shortage and that it comes in time? I really would have liked to hear from you about the fact that if there hadn't been this click of this pro justitia, what would have happened? This goes back to another element that I would have correlated with your presentation, especially when you mention SALTO. How are we going to handle the continuation of Doel 1 and Doel 2's reopening? You mention SALTO yourself but you mention it for Tihange 1, you don't mention it in your slides on Doel 1 and Doel 2. How do we do it, when we haven't done SALTO in relation to Doel 1 and 2? Is there not maximum security, or intended as such in one direction and, in the other, while you're talking about SALTO for Tihange 1, you're not talking about it on Doel 1 and Doel 2? I feel like I have a two-faced speech in your presentation. I'm getting out of the argument. In your slide, page 10, you refer to this element in particular: "Preventive intervention following a technical anomaly on the fire system of the primary pumps observed in recent days". I'm talking about the September 18th incident. You say, "Reparation in condition of complete cold shutdown of the unit". I'd like to ask you about the LTO. Why has this type of equipment not been reviewed before? Is he in another phase? Was it a matter of working on this structure later? The third question is about the culture of security and insecurity. It concerns Doel 1 and the actual date, either 30 November or 1 December, for its resumption. There is the law and the convention, but also the agreement of the AFCN – which is indispensable. How are you going to continue? Do you have a plan B if the agreement of the AFCN does not occur before November 30? I would have liked to hear from you in this regard. Then I'm a little disturbed by the Safety Case related to Doel 3 and Tihange 2. On August 18, Mr.Bens said here: "We received Electrabel's Safety Case for Tihange 2 and Doel 3. The methodology seems correct to us. The examination is under way with our consultants." But they gave you an oral report. For the moment, there is no written text. Since August 19, has the written document been received? The International Review Board has not yet finalized its report. So you're only working on the basis of an oral report – I'm talking about methodology. Has there been any change? Has the written report finally arrived? I feel like we're putting the plough before the ox, and we don't know where to start. I therefore ask myself questions and fears about the safety culture, while knowing that it was also raised by my colleagues. And then, excuse me for telling you – we are here in Parliament to pass on the expression of the population – in terms of communication, we stop and then re-launch: this is a little "bricolage". So I would have liked to know why, at some point, there's a stop and then we go back... Are revision schedules properly kept, with the maximum safety culture, or are a number of infrastructures becoming more obsolete and therefore less efficient? I would therefore have liked to hear you in relation to these elements. Mr President, I still have a question for you. We were finishing the 19 August commission with an intervention by Mr Bens and you say that Mr Bens will give us as soon as possible the figures concerning the number of incidents and the order of the AFCN. We got it. The committee agrees with the Electrabel agreement, but as regards the transmission of the action plan to the committee, mid-September seems to me to be a realistic deadline, Mr Bens said. Did you receive anything from him in mid-September? So, is there a follow-up to the 19 August commission or is there a blank?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u10	Mr De Clercq, I would like to add two further reservations and questions. We have heard your explanation of the various incidents. You have given us the state of play. We must, of course, note that two exceptional things come together here. Firstly, the number of incidents is exceptional. It has already been said here: it was one incident after another. Secondly, there is the report prepared by the FANC. That too, we understand, is very exceptional. My first question to you is therefore the following. Does Electrabel consider that a coincidence of circumstances? I have the impression it could be more than a coincidence here. In other words, apart from solving problems when they arise, should Electrabel not ask the question whether there are no more coincidences here than some coincidences that happen accidentally? I would remind you of the previous meeting of the subcommittee when it became clear that there is concern about what has been happening in recent months. My second question goes in the direction of what Mr Thiébaut said about the minutes. It says on your slides that Electrabel's teams have identified several infringements in recent months. I don't know exactly how that goes. I have the feeling, perhaps I am mistaken, that the FANC has carried out checks and that the FANC then drew up the minutes on the basis of those checks? This gives at least the impression that Electrabel's own teams, whose reports are taken over by the FANC, then the FANC acts. It is not clear to me exactly how that is going. I still assume that the FANC, as an independent auditor, will carry out its own checks. Would you clarify that for me? I think that is important, because if there is one thing I am concerned about, it is the internal controls at Electrabel on the different sites. If Electrabel only acts after the FANC has established a number of cases, and the incidents are frequent before a report is drawn up, then there is also an internal delay. So far my questions, Mr De Clercq. I assume you will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u11	Mr President, I will begin with the last point that has been raised several times. How exactly does that work? You have the impression that it's their own teams that detect anomalies and not the FANC. The FANC and its technical branch Bel V have the duty and the ability to carry out independent analyses at all times. That's what they do. If breaches of the technical specifications are detected, this can be determined by Bel V, but in almost all cases this is established internally. For example, if someone on the night shift makes a wrong decision with regard to the technical specifications, the next day at the operating meeting or the internal system of checks will establish that what happened there is not correct and that technical specifications are infringed. That will be reported proactively from our side to Bel V and to the FANC. On the one hand, we have the internal teams within the operation, which can establish certain deviations and, on the other hand, we have an internal nuclear safety service, which carries out an internal audit of all decisions taken by the teams. They may indeed identify certain anomalies and breaches of the technical specifications. When this is established by our people, it is reported to Bel V and to the FANC in accordance with a procedure agreed with the FANC. There are certain deadlines on that. Some events must be reported immediately, others within 24 hours and others on the first working day following the event's identification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u12	However, the question is as follows. When your own teams determine that themselves, why are you waiting for the FANC report to take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u13	Mr President, I will continue with the answer to that question. Where such facts are established, the necessary measures shall be taken immediately to correct the situation. That's the short-term action. Secondly, each such event shall be the subject of an incident report listing a number of specific actions in order to avoid reoccurring such events on that particular unit or on another unit. Those reports are also viewed by the Doel site. That is what happened in that case. Of all the elements listed since spring 2015, individual incident reports have been prepared with a thorough cause analysis of each incident. Following the letter sent by the FANC to Doel and Tihange in mid-July 2015, the agreement with both sites was that the weeks that followed would be a thorough, more in-depth cause analysis, to find out what the recurring elements were in all relevant punctual facts. In this respect, we have been overtaken by the facts. Indeed, in the two weeks that followed on 13 July 2015, there were several events that led the FANC to draw up the projustitia. That's how things work. There were indeed several incidents on the Tihange site during the second half of July 2015. I would like to add immediately that both sites received the letter of 13 July 2015 from the FANC. It was therefore agreed that actions would be taken on both sites. I certainly don't want to minimize the facts. I hear from the questions that we get over it a little bit. That's not right. We take the FANC's warning very seriously. I will certainly not minimize the facts. We need to define appropriate actions, which we have already done, to raise the level of safety of our employees to a higher level. I certainly do not want to insinuate that the nuclear sector is being over-controlled. I would just point out that the nuclear sector is a highly controlled sector, which is a good thing. I would also stress that the FANC played its role perfectly in this context as a nuclear safety authority. Let us take a look at the number of incidents that have occurred over the past few years. There have indeed been a lot of incidents in a short period of time. However, the year is not over and numbers always need to be considered somewhat critically. We cannot say that 2015 is a year with huge incidents. However, every incident is too much. Any breach of the technical specifications must be taken very seriously and thoroughly analysed. We must take the necessary action to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. We must also raise awareness and train staff better. Of course, staff are trained, but training is a continuous process of improvement which is also learned from experience. If it is found that certain trends are developing, the training programme must be adapted accordingly. The nuclear safety incidents that have taken place are certainly not bound by the age of the power stations. Mr Bens confirmed this in the hearing in August. It's about safety culture, and that's a set of methods, attitudes, behaviours and ways people react to. Nuclear safety ensures that we can maintain and operate the power stations so that they can be operated safely without impact on the employees or on the environment. In addition to an analysis of each incident in itself, it is very important that a more global analysis is also made of the reasons for the various incidents in Tihange in the second week of July. We must look at this very carefully. With Tihange's management, we have agreed that we will analyse all the reports from the last three to five years in detail. To this end, we will call on experts from WANO, an association of international experts in the field of the operation of nuclear power stations. We've already done cause analyses ourselves. This is a miscommunication between departments. It is in some cases to improve knowledge of the technical specifications. But we must also certainly look at the underlying causes of what happened in Tihange. On the basis of this analysis, the Action Plan, which exists today, needs to be adapted in the coming weeks, with more longer-term actions. Certainly more fundamental actions must be taken to ensure that the level of safety of our employees is raised to a higher level and remains at that higher level. That's important, too. It has nothing to do with savings. It has nothing to do with outsourcing assignments. Nuclear safety is the responsibility of the operator. I don't want to avoid that responsibility. Whatever happens, it's their own team and the director of the site, who are responsible for nuclear safety. I can assure you that in the nuclear sector, and in Doel and Tihange in particular, there have been no savings at all in recent years, no savings on staff, no savings on maintenance programmes. That is certainly not the reason for what we have now established. Our maintenance programmes have been in place since the power stations started operating. They are also continuously adapted to what we determine during the maintenance activity. In this way they are constantly improved, to keep our installations in good condition. What happened on Tihange 1 last Friday needs to be looked at thoroughly. It can happen in industrial activities that a pump causes problems at a certain point and breaks the axis of a pumped attelée or coupled pump. Above all, however, we must examine the root cause. Those cases will take some time after the initial analysis of such an incident. As far as nuclear safety culture is concerned, some people have asked questions about experience abroad. It is clear that we make maximum use of experience from abroad. That's why we also have periodic WANO-peer reviews. These are audits by the people of WANO, the World Association of Nuclear Operators, operators of other power stations who come to us to see how we do maintenance and operation of our units. These people make a number of recommendations, which are of course included in a number of improvement programmes that are ongoing both in Objective and Tihange. I come to the root causes of the various events in Tihange. Without prejudging the full analysis, I can see that this is a safety culture, which is the root cause of human behaviour, of the hierarchy. It's about communication between different services. This is about the way in which derogations are dealt with. It's about how employees handle procedures. Any activity taking place in a nuclear power station shall be supported by a procedure, with a work preparation. Do these work preparations give a complete picture of the situation? All these elements together allow a technician or an operator to perform a particular activity. In a thorough cause analysis, all these elements are examined separately. Are our procedures adequate? Are there sufficient agreements between maintenance and operation before a task is started? All these things are part of a global security culture. For all the different elements, a number of improvement elements are defined in the Action Plan. The action plan will be delivered to the FANC in its more advanced version shortly. The follow-up of the Action Plan will be discussed in concrete terms with the FANC. This has already been agreed internally, about the way in which I and the two site managers will implement the follow-up of the action plan. My responsibility as a nuclear director is to give the appropriate response to the facts raised by the FANC and the strong warning we have received from the FANC, which we are responding to with the necessary reactivity. I did, too. I immediately, together with the management team of the Tihange site, took the necessary initiatives to draw up an action plan on ritual and accountability. With regard to Objective 3 and Tihange 2, in March 2014, we shut down the two units for safety reasons, because testing for different types of materials showed that a characteristic, namely fracture toughness, was not in line with expectations, not in line with what is commonly known for that type of materials. For safety reasons, we decided to shut down the power stations until we had any clarity and certainty. In the meantime, about 1 500 tests have been carried out on different materials, not because the initial tests went wrong, not at all, but because we wanted to have a global overview of the characteristics of the different materials in our approach. It's gonna take some time. After all, you should know that all these tests have been carried out on materials that have been irradiated. To irradiate a test piece, Mol's reactor is used. A complete cycle takes six to eight weeks and then there are the subsequent tests. We have done a number of cycles. The number of test pieces that can be irradiated at once in the Mol reactor is also limited. So we have had to make choices. In the light of this, there have been three or four radiation cycles in Mol's reactor. That's gonna take a year soon. Based on the results of those tests, the calculation models have been started. Those are not simple things. This needs to be dealt with thoroughly and will soon take several months. As Mr Bens said when he was here last time, the methodology of our safety study, our safety case, has been approved. The international experts had looked at this methodology in the spring. There has been a question-and-answer session on the methodology and the experts have subsequently reported that the principles of the methodology we have applied are in line with current practices. We based our safety study on that, well aware that the safety study we submitted on 17 July 2015 is a first version of the safety study, assuming a number of things. Conservative elements have been included in those calculations. All the results of the material tests have been included in the calculations. If there are certain issues that still need to be changed, for example after the analysis of the US laboratory, those changes must be considered. They can then be adapted in the safety study. Our safety study is based on the entire file that we have prepared. We delivered the study to the FANC. It is the FANC that will analyse our safety study, together with the people of the International Review Board and with the people of the American laboratory. That's the analysis that's going on today. As far as I know, the FANC has not yet received any results. We won't get them. They will be passed on to the FANC. On the basis of all relevant elements, the FANC will decide on the start-up of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. A member has asked to what extent the safety case is now different from the safety case submitted in 2013. It is much more extensive, because today it is based on a number of tests and measurement results from test pieces, which have been irradiated in a reactor. This was not the case in the first safety case or first safety study submitted in 2013. One of the long-term actions at that time was to investigate the behaviour of such materials under the influence of radiation. For Objective 1 and Objective 2, there are three components. There is, on the one hand, the legal aspect, i.e. the law that should allow a lifetime extension. There is, on the other hand, the convention to be agreed between the operator, the cabinet of Mrs Marghem and the government. There is also the FANC agreement on the technical file, which is the technical issues. For Tihange 1 we did indeed get the approval for the life extension in July 2012, after which a project team was started to complete the entire dossier. That file was submitted to the FANC. The dossier clearly indicated the studies to be completed before the 40th anniversary, on 1 October, which changes should be implemented before the 40th anniversary of the end of last summer, which changes can be made during the first shut-down after the start, scheduled for 2016, and which changes can be made at a later stage. For example, the installation of a new safety diesel with associated building and associated control room is planned for the 2017 revisions and their completion in 2019. All this is described in the dossier, which was delivered to the FANC and approved by the FANC. For Objective 1 and Objective 2, we had the basic dossier only in July 2012. In 2011, we applied for the extension of life for Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1. The basic file was prepared in 2012 and was updated at the end of last year. From January of this year onwards, for Objectives 1 and 2, we transformed the project team involved in dismantling Objective 1 and Objective 2 into the project team concerned with extending the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. Since January there has been a project team which currently consists of some 70 people, which has increased progressively. That project team consists of engineers from Tractebel and the operator of Electrabel. The dossier, which we submitted to the safety authorities on 17 April, lists the inspections and checks to be carried out before the date of 1 December for Objective 1 and for Objective 2. For Objective 1, the target date is 1 December because Objective 1 is still today and will not start before 1 December. The same date applies to Objective 2 because Objective 2 reached the age of 40 on that date. A number of inspections must be carried out. A number of equipments must be analysed to see if they still fulfil their safety function correctly. If such equipment is still qualified and, at the same time, what compensatory measures can be put in place in case there are comments on one or the other qualification. In it we list exactly what will happen during the revision in 2016, the 2017 revision and the 2018 revision. These commitments to the FANC will be followed very closely and in concrete terms by the FANC. There's been a SALTO audit in Tihange 1. The follow-up to that audit will take place in December 2016. The people of AIEA who carry out the SALTO give a number of recommendations. They make a number of recommendations. Between a year and 18 months later, they come back to see what the site has achieved thanks to the various recommendations they have given. This mission will take place in December 2016. For Doel, a SALTO mission was requested by the Agency from the IAEA. The date is set: February 2016 for the mission expert and the SALTO will follow... But since I don't have my documents, I don't know when. We will follow the same process. We should not forget that with the experience of the SALTO, which we lived in Tihange, we noted the recommendations that the SALTO team gave us in Tihange and injected them into the preparation of the project "Extension of life of Doel 1 and 2". We have already recovered a number of recommendations that the team could eventually give Doel in the preparation of the Doel 1 and 2 extension. During the inspections planned for Objectives 1 and 2, there will also be an inspection of the hydrogen flakes, the DDH screening, to clarify the situation of Objectives 1 and 2 compared to what we know today about Objectives 3 and Tihange 2. These inspections will take place in the first half of November and must be mandatory before the start of Objectives 1 and 2. Someone's been asking about scenarios B for Target 1 and 2. There's no scenario B for Target 1. If all the conditions of the Convention are not met and if there is no technical approval of the FANC, Objective 1 will not start. We will do everything we can, taking into account, of course, nuclear safety and the technical inspections to be carried out, to make Objective 1 available in the coming winter. Anyway, those other conditions must of course also be met. The results of the inspections must be delivered to the FANC, which must give its approval. I think I've covered the various questions. Are there any additional questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u14	Questions that would not have been answered can still be addressed. Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u15	Mr President, I asked about the proportion of subcontracting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u16	Do I answer directly?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u17	The proportion of subcontracting was in the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u18	In Tihange, there are about a thousand people with an Electrabel contract. It depends on the time: when you are under review, there may be 1,500 subcontractors, when you are out of review periods, there are about 500 subcontractors on the site. We do not underestimate any activity. I'm going to be very clear about that. The operator is responsible for the nuclear safety of the site and is therefore responsible for complying with the technical specifications. In the whole debate on infringements of the technical specifications that took place, subcontracting is not an issue because it is the sole responsibility of the operator. We do not underestimate any activity, we only underestimate some, which are considered as what is called in English the non-core business. For example, scaffolding construction is outsourced, cleaning is outsourced, some administrative tasks are outsourced. While aware that all subcontractors entering the Doel and Tihange sites have, first of all, a security clearance, mandatory according to the regulations, and compulsory four-day training in the fields of safety culture, radiation protection and fire protection. Without this training, a subcontractor does not enter the site. It's valid for Doel and Tihange.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u19	I give the floor to Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u20	Mr President, Mr De Clercq, I would like to speak to you again about Tihange 1. We were told at the beginning that it was going to start again today. We're announced a postponement. I see on the Belpex site that the price of electricity is almost multiplied by four. We're going from 50 to 190 euros per megawatt. Is there a real risk of shortage? There is, on the net, a website of GDF Suez called transparency.gdfsuez.com. On this site, there is a page where you can see the future facilities. If I go on the page for Belgium, I find all the sources of electricity generation in a beautiful picture, with green lines and red lines. When it's red, it's not active and when it's green, it's active. What concerns me is that Tihange 2 and Doel 3 are in red for now and that GDF Suez is announcing that they will become green on November 1st of this year. I'm a little surprised as we're waiting for the results of the safety case and GDF Suez announces on a public site that both reactors will be in operation by November 1st of this year. I can tell you that's an issue for me. The safety case isn't over, but if I find out in November that everything's fine, I'll still be arrested. I would like an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u21	With regard to this site of REMIT, from Transparency with availabilities, let's take the case of Tihange 1. In order to operate on the market, good information must be available. It is the trading players that operate on the market, it is not the nuclear operator that sells or buys electricity. I manage the operation of the power plant. As soon as technical information is available on one of our plants, it is announced on the REMIT Transparency website. When the plant triggers, like this Friday night, we are asked: "What are your forecasts?" At first, we don't have a lot of ideas about the cause of the event. It is then put on REMIT, for example, twenty-four hours, knowing that within the following hours, one adapts the timing of a restart as and when. At every moment, when you have new information, the website is adapted. If, for example, at any given time, the operator says: "It will not be within 24 hours. I think it will be in thirty hours", the website is adapted. That's why you saw, Saturday and Sunday, a lot of site updates for Tihange 1. At first, we had to look for the root cause. It took a while. When finding the origin of the event, an estimate of the duration of the repair must be made. Each time, the time of restarting is adjusted. Yesterday afternoon, we said: "It is necessary to make a further repair". There, when you have to go to the cold stop and then the restart, it's right now ten days. We adapt the website in this sense. We set September 30th. That's how it works. When you start, you'll see the same thing, but a little in the other direction. When you are in the start-up phase, it is estimated that it still takes so much time for the power plant to be coupled. These data are constantly announced to the market. It is on this site that we adapt the date and time of the start. With regard to Doel 3 and Tihange 2 – I had not forgotten – this date was defined several months ago on the basis of our estimates (when we were going to introduce the safety case, how long it would take the Agency to consult the American laboratory, how long for the Agency to decide on our safety case). So we set the date of November 1st, which seemed to us at the most probable time. Now, it is clear that it is the responsibility of the Agency to decide on the safety box. They are familiar with the transparency site system. So, it doesn't put pressure on the Agency to decide. As soon as we have a new element, we will adapt the site to the information that will be available to us at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u22	So, if the results are bad, we're still not going to restart the reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u23	No, it's clear! If the Agency says... it's the Agency's responsibility. I am not going to start the plants against the opinion of the Agency, let us be very clear. It's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u24	But it's a little bit of thinking that, anyway, it's gonna be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u25	No, no, no, no, no, We have introduced the safety case in mid-July and therefore we believe that, for us, the two units can run safely. But let us be very clear: it is the Agency that takes the final decision on a restart of Doel 3 and Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u26	Mr President, my reply will be relatively short. I almost want to say "go back to the next incident" so we can do it again. Mr De Clercq, I hope you can file a copy of the detailed plan with the calendar, so we don't just have the slides.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u27	The action plan is sent to the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u28	I understand, but I'm asking you to have a copy of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u29	I'm sending the plan to the Agency and we'll have to check with the Agency what it's gonna do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u30	You do not want to send Parliament a copy of the action plan with the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u31	It was the Agency that asked us for an action plan, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u32	All right, but I'm asking you too! In terms of transparency, frankly, hat! Here, we asked the Agency for the documents, it sent them to us. You are asked for a copy of this plan because every three months we have to be able to assess the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u33	We will also need to discuss with the Agency how we will follow up on the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u34	Are you ever going to play transparency? Are we ever going to have a feeling from you that you want to play the game of transparency and respond to our demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u35	The Agency must approve the action plan. The Agency has not yet approved the action plan; it has not yet received it. It has received a first version of the first actions but has not yet received the overall plan. We will forward the action plan to the Agency. And we will agree with the Agency on how the advancement will be monitored. There will be internal advancement in our organization, and there will certainly be periodic meetings with the Director of the Agency for follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u36	So we now learn that this plan does not yet exist, but once it exists, once it has been approved, do you agree to provide us with a copy of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u37	I'm not going to answer that question now. The Agency has requested an action plan and I am submitting an action plan to the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u38	Do you not think that the citizens are entitled to know what actions you decide and what is the timetable for carrying out these actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u39	I have no problem with detailing the various actions that are notified in the action plan. In fact, in the slides that you have today, there are on the one hand the immediate actions that have been taken, and which are very detailed; there are short-term actions and there are longer-term actions. There are no share managers but you have the content of the different actions. There are still complementary actions because the plan has not yet been completed. I have no problem giving you a view of the various actions that are mentioned in the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u40	We really feel like you have things to hide!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important for the committee to be able to follow up on the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u42	I believe that this should also be discussed with Mr Bens. I won't judge that alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u43	I agree. I believe that it is obvious that the committee will have that action plan at its disposal, either through Electrabel or through the FANC, which does not matter to me. It is clear that we need to have a quarterly follow-up. I'll contact the FANC on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. This seems important to me in relation to what we decided to do at the same time. Second, about SALTO, you say that you can build on the experience of the previous SALTO, thus from the experience of the International Atomic Energy Agency in 2013 and 2015 on Tihange 1. I contacted this agency, which replied: "No, we cannot consider that, because a SALTO was carried out in Tihange 1, we can remove the elements for Doel 1 and 2". This is a specific and ad hoc approach for each site. So, the question we're asking you is whether you're going to respect the timing, i.e. perform this external inspection before extending the life of Doel 1 and 2. Why? Because by seeing incidents multiply, the only guarantor is necessarily this external look. The visit of the International Atomic Energy Agency is an important element for us to be able to confirm that a minimum of security assurances are being offered to us. If you tell us that we can rely on Tihange's, when we contact the IAEA, she tells us that we cannot rely on what has been achieved there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u45	To do this, we must speak to Mr Bens. It is also the responsibility of the Agency. What I told you, in the context of the SALTO, it is clear that the results of a SALTO in Tihange and those of a SALTO that will take place in Doel are not necessarily the same. I just said that we could still take advantage of the experience we had in Tihange to, already, implement actions at Doel. Is this going to cover the whole thing? No, certainly not, but we take advantage of the experience of another site.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u46	I'd like you to send Mr. Bens every time. I will not fail to ask him, since we will receive him in two or three months – I do not know exactly when. Nevertheless, am I wrong in saying that the request for a SALTO mission must come from the operator, therefore from you, and not from Mr Bens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u47	The Agency is requesting SALTO from the IAEA, not the operator. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u48	So we'll see with Mr. Bens. Last question. Do you have any contact with your Swiss counterparts, who have also discovered strange phenomena that resemble cracks, even if they are not quite the same, according to Mr Bens? What lessons, if any, can you draw from this, since they have discovered cracks in the Beznau power plant, which is as old as ours?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u49	I do not have sufficient technical and detailed contacts to decide what has been observed at the Beznau power plant. I know the people in Beznau have made contact with our project manager, but I don't know any more. I don't know exactly what they have observed, or what they intend to do in Beznau, it's a question that should be asked the Swiss regulator, because personally, I don't have the information...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u50	I understand, I'm not asking you to know what they're going to do in Switzerland. I get it. I ask you what you, as an operator in Belgium, may learn from the information they have given you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u51	It's a little premature. We're going to inspect Doel 1 and Doel 2 tanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u52	I'm talking here about Doel 3 and Tihange 2. Of course, for Doel 1 and Doel 2 we will see, but for Doel 3 and Tihange 2, where there are cracks, do you learn lessons from what the Swiss eventually told you, from what they themselves discovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u53	I think it will be more in the other direction, because we have worked for three years with a hundred experts and the world top on the file. It is not we who are going to learn something from the Swiss, it is rather the Swiss who could learn something from our study.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u54	If you consider that you have nothing to learn from what is happening in Switzerland when you discover more or less similar things. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u55	Honestly, in this case, we really have, I can assure you, the world's top expertise. You will not find anywhere what we have done here in Belgium at the level of the flaking hydrogen.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u56	That's what we were told, and that will be my last intervention, also in 2013 when we decided to reopen in 2014, and then we had to close it in an emergency. World top, I want to see every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u57	They don't even know in Switzerland whether this is really the same phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u58	That's what I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u59	It's not up to me, the operator of Electrabel, Doel and Tihange, to know exactly what's going on in Beznau, anyway. I'm already going to take care of my own power plants, that's enough work already.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u60	I didn't ask what's going on in Beznau, but if there's any lessons to learn. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-09-21-54-commissie-ic231x.u61	I would like to thank Mr De Clercq and Mrs Heyvaert for their explanations and answers. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their presence. We will agree when we invite Mr Bens to the follow-up.
