ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u1	First of all, Minister, I would like to say that my question dates back to 19 December. It is likely that it has fallen between the meshes of the net and so it may be somewhat out of date, but I do not think that it is unimportant. On 16 December 2014, De Tijd and Het Nieuwsblad, among others, announced that there was a sharp decline in real agricultural income per worker in Belgium by just 15.2%. Only Finland and Lithuania are doing even worse. This is shown by figures from the European Statistical Office Eurostat. Agricultural organisations are talking about a declining trend in incomes. Every year, however, a sector is affected by several factors. In addition, the Russian import ban, which also has a large share in the fall in prices, came into play. For Belgian farmers who are heavily dependent on exports to Russia, this means a serious blow. Mr Minister, have you already taken initiatives with the relevant federal agencies, such as the External Trade Agency, on alternatives to the Russian import ban? If so, which one? If not, will you?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u2	Mr Gantois, I repeat that under the special law for the reform of the institutions of 8 August 1980 the area of responsibility for marketing and export policy belongs to the regions. The role of the federal government in this is very limited. The same applies to the possibility of alternative marketing areas for agricultural and food products. As a result of the Russian import ban, the FPS Economy is following my request very closely to the price evolution of various agricultural products. Four product groups are being studied, in particular fresh pears, fresh apples, fresh tomatoes and pigmeat. For each of these products, the analysis relates to the evolution of the market price and of Belgian exports, expressed in terms of value and volume. A European framework will enable new marketing areas to be explored. It concerns Regulation No. 3/2008 of 17 December 2007 on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. A new version of the Regulation extends the list of eligible products to certain foodstuffs obtained on the basis of agricultural products. The new rules contained in Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until then, Regulation No. 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: 3/2008: We follow closely the problem in the FPS Economy, with the limited powers we still have. From my previous life, I know that the Regions can and do a lot there at the moment. They get my full support if they need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u3	Mr. Chair, Minister, during the debate on your general policy note, I had the opportunity to convey to you my greatest concern about your government's intentions to abolish staffing in CRIOC. At the time, you reassured us – dare I say "temporarily reassured" – by informing us, on the one hand, that you were going to find a solution for CRIOC and, on the other hand, that you had identified a budget line within your FPS to finance the Centre. I come back to you today, a few months later, to see what this solution is, what the amount of the 2015 budget is now allocated to CRIOC and what the prospects are for this body in the short, medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u4	A brief question, but clear and precise, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nollet, it is clear that we have worked hard to find a solution for CRIOC. I have launched a solution through a convention between the Central Economic Council, CRIOC and the SPF Economy. In this proposal, financial resources would be allocated to the Central Economic Council, which would provide the necessary support to consumer organisations, ensuring the necessary autonomy of the CRIOC. We had a meeting the day before yesterday. I understood that the Central Economic Council was giving a favourable opinion. There was a time when I was vice-president of the Central Economic Council, so it is important to me that we organize things there effectively, while ensuring the necessary autonomy – and I stress it, very important – of the CRIOC. Indeed, I must also find money to finance and organize CRIOC. I therefore hope, Mr Nollet, that a solution will be found in this direction as soon as possible. I repeat, I understood that the Central Economic Council and consumer associations are rather positive. In this context, I hope that a solution can be found as quickly as possible, i.e. before the summer of 2015, with a very effective organisation of the CRIOC.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u6	Minister, I hear you have put forward a concrete lead. You insist a lot on the word autonomy. But at this stage, given the information you provide about the precise content of this track, I have doubts as to its relevance and feasibility. However, it is not my role to be at the forefront of this issue. I will therefore take the contacts to give a concrete analysis of the proposal and, if necessary, to return to you. Unless I'm wrong, you didn't mention a budget amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u7	In the past, I have referred to the amount of EUR 500 000, which may be a possibility. The Central Council already has advisers, a secretariat and some infrastructure. I am convinced that there are many centres such as CRIOC at the federal level. An efficient solution must be found, but above all a solution that respects the autonomy of the CRIOC. That is what I am trying to do by allocating budgets for CRIOC. Although the amount of EUR 500 000 is significant, it is not a real problem. I hope that Ecolo will be supportive and support an effective solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u8	Mr Minister, of course you must have no doubt about Ecolo-Groen. What concerns us is inefficiency. However, if one crosses the necessary autonomy, which is not necessarily a autonomy of secretariat, with the need linked to the missions of the CRIOC, in particular the technical missions within the framework of the various committees and the fact-finding missions, I have even more doubts, in view of the amount you have mentioned, as to the effectiveness of the proposal which is on the table. I am really afraid that there will be a rabbling of the CRIOC's field of action, which would make it ineffective. Having said that, I repeat that I will take the time to analyse this proposal in depth before I may come back to you. Still, at this stage, I have doubts about the expected outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u9	Dear colleague, you have the right to have doubts. I did the same thing with the Consumer Council. I must say that the position taken is very positive with a view to seeking solutions in collaboration with the Central Economic Council. Infrastructure and competent personnel are available. A meeting of the management committee must, I believe, take place tomorrow at the level of the CRIOC. Many things can be used; I am thinking here, for example, of computer equipment. But I will see what the position of the organisations will be tomorrow or the day after, before taking a decision. Know, in any case, that I am looking for effective solutions, which is the key word.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u10	Minister, I am also looking for effective solutions, but they do not harm missions. Since a few questions remain pending, I will try to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u11	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the law of 14 March 2014 entrusts the Institute of National Accounts with a new mission. This is the "calculation of a series of complementary indicators to measure the quality of life, human development, social progress and sustainability of our economy, as well as their integration into existing publications incorporating traditional economic indicators." The National Accounts Institute has three institutions: the National Institute of Statistics, the National Bank of Belgium and the Federal Office of the Plan. I hear that some of these institutions have not yet been consulted on this matter, that there has been no exchange of information, which would cause me concern in view of the potential non-compliance with the law of 14 March 2014. I imagine you'll reassure me immediately. So what steps have been taken to implement this law? What is the concrete state of play in the calculation of indicators complementary to GDP by the constituent bodies of the Institute of National Accounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wathelet, you have re-established the law of 14 March 2014. To be brief, over the past few months, the Federal Planning Office (FPB) has explored the subject matter of complementary indicators and has begun to prepare for their development. In this context, it has followed some of the work of the European Union, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the United Nations. The BFP also collaborated on a methodological conference on complementary indicators to GDP with the Walloon Institute of Evaluation, Prospective and Statistics. The BFP also presented two contributions at this conference on 12 December 2014 in Namur on complementary indicators. In 2015, the BFP will continue to carry out this first phase of work. He will publish the results. This work will be in accordance with the political and scientific framework laid down by law. The BFP will also refer to other relevant work in this area, in particular at the level of the Regions and Communities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that a large number of indicators complementary to GDP are already available. The Federal Office of the Plan publishes, among other things, a series of indicators of sustainable development that inform not only economic but also social and environmental issues. These 75 indicators of sustainable development have been available since 2012 on a site you know very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u13	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I've heard a lot about the Federal Office of the Plan. Here, the law applies to the National Accounts Institute, which reports to the National Bank. What is your timetable in terms of the transmission of information to the latter? In this way, the Institute of National Accounts will be able to deal with it. I have the impression that, in your answer, you are telling me what the Federal Office of the Plan is doing. I can hear you. However, the Act provides that the task of calculating indicators is the responsibility of the Institute. In addition, it is the responsibility of the Federal Office of the Plan to feed them. In this case, I think we are not going to the end of the process. Indeed, in your reply, I did not hear anything about a timetable for the transmission of information by the BFP to the Institute of National Accounts or to the National Bank. I'm not pretending it's simple. This is probably not the most urgent issue in the world, but it is another way of calculating GDP, which does not reduce it to a simple economic approach. These themes seem important to me. In other words, will this transmission of information take place? If this is not the case, it means that the law is not respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u14	Dear colleague, I may have misunderstood your question and I am sorry. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to provide you with such a schedule at this time. Every day is enough for her, but I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u15	I know you're not of bad will. That is why I propose to ask you again on the basis of your answer, to know when the information from the BFP will be transferred to the National Bank and the Institute of National Accounts. Perhaps I will be clearer on the elements to ask you at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u16	Mr President, I had tabled a question No 1800 which was first attached to Mr Wathelet's question and then turned into a written question. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the minister for the answer that was given to me. However, like my colleague, I will come back to the subject at a later stage because clarification is needed as to the timetable to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, in fact, the two questions are one. It concerns advertising for children, mainly for so-called children's parties. A legislative framework exists since the June 2000 Advertising Council's recommendations relate to the terms and conditions of these advertisements. The FPS Economy monitors compliance with these recommendations. Minister, what is this control of the FPS? How is it achieved in practice? What are the terms and conditions of referral to the CPS to deal with this type of case? Does it take action on the basis of the complaints filed? If so, where and how can they be filed, directly with the CPS or through an ad-related agency, which returns the complaint file for notice and review? Can the SPF Economy seize itself? Then, when a controlled file is found to be contrary to the recommendations of the Consumer Council, what action is taken by your administration since they are self-discipline recommendations and there is no direct sanction? Can you share with us the average number of files that are handled by the Economy FPS in relation to this particular topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Matz, the Consumer Council's recommendation on advertising for children's holidays does not constitute a code of conduct within the meaning of legislation on unfair practices. In order for this to be a code of conduct, a commitment must be made by the undertaking concerned. This recommendation is therefore not binding. Thus, the Economic Inspectorate does not have supervisory powers in this area. In 2014, the Economic Inspectorate dealt with only one report on this subject, informing the complainant of the above. However, this does not prevent my administration from paying particular attention to misleading and unfair market practices targeting the most vulnerable segments of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u19	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I asked the question on the grounds that today there is no legal competence in the proper sense of the word. I have also tabled a bill to regulate these children's parties. In fact, it was following a meeting with the Jury of Advertising Ethics, which told me that the sector was self-disciplining, that I asked you. I am particularly concerned about delays. As early as September, we started advertising for the Saint-Nicolas. It was in this spirit that the bill was drafted. I guess we'll have an opportunity to discuss this in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u20	Mr. Minister, you have announced your willingness to further combat telephone stalling, in particular through the creation of a centralized list for consumers who no longer wish to be out of the market. This list will have binding force, which is a very good thing because at the moment the system is blurred: when we declare that we refuse to open it, we are not sure that the effectiveness of the registrations is real for all operators. Can you provide us with the specific content of your project in this area? What are the modalities? What are the penalties? Will your device also target SMS approaches? And what about emails and other types of unwanted steps? I'm thinking, for example, of a door-to-door stall. Shouldn't a similar arrangement be put in place for any form of commercial harassment with centralisation of consumer address records that wish to be protected, binding force for all operators and penalties for those who do not comply with the rules? Thank you for your answer and I really encourage you to go in the direction of what you mentioned, you will have our full support, as often when we talk about consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u21	Thank you for your support. I can give you some very concrete information. Indeed, in order to effectively combat the use of telephone numbers and to give subscribers the opportunity to exercise their right to oppose the use of their telephone numbers quickly and easily, a single database will be created. A royal decree will be taken shortly. I recently received the opinion of the Council of State on the draft text. All telecommunications operators will have to adhere to this database, which will be managed by a third party. Such a unique system offers obvious advantages, both for subscribers who can always reach out to a single contact - regardless of the operator with whom they have a contract - and for those who want to do direct marketing by telephone and who can find out from a single point of contact about the telephone numbers they cannot call. The purpose is therefore to approve an association or organization that will be in charge of managing this centralized database. Failure to comply with the rules requiring telecommunications operators to cooperate in this single database, and companies wishing to open the telephone to consult it in advance, are subject to the criminal penalties provided for in the Code of Economic Law. The central opposition list system set up for the call-up will not be applicable to advertisements sent by SMS or by e-mail. Indeed, in accordance with European law, an opt-in prior consent system is provided for the use of these tools. Home marketing is the subject of special regulations on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the rules on consumer protection when buying from home, and in particular those which grant it a period of withdrawal of 14 days. I therefore find it difficult to put in place a single mechanism, given that the right of opposition is regulated in a different way and that it exists in the field of European standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u22	Thank you to the minister for his answer. I hear the intentions and, I say again, I share them with regard to telephone calls. You are telling me that, for text messages and e-mails, there is a European system; I am going to go back there because I feel – and I am not the only one – that I am regularly out of business in relation to which I have never agreed. In any case, as the text will come to us, we will have the opportunity to work on it again at that time and to see if it is not necessary to implement in Belgian law also, by extending the protective measures vis-à-vis unwanted sms, if not e-mails. I thank you, in any case, for taking the time to work on this issue, despite everything that occupies your agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 1987 report was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the transposition into Belgian law of the Accounting Directive 2013/34 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings must take place by 15 July 2015 at the latest. One of the important themes is the adjustment of the accounting thresholds below which a company can be described as small. A small company, pursuant to Article 15 of the Company Code, is a company with legal personality which does not exceed one of the three criteria, namely: an annual average number of employed workers of 50; an annual turnover, excluding VAT, of EUR 7 300 000; a total balance sheet of EUR 3 650 000 (unless the annual average number of employed workers exceeds 100 persons). If two of the three criteria are exceeded, it will no longer be a small company but a large one. The consequence is that it will have to have a corporate reviewer and will be subject to the statutory audit. The project is to increase the threshold of turnover and balance sheet. The turnover would increase from EUR 7 300 000 to EUR 8 000 000 (with a maximum of EUR 12 000 000). As far as the balance sheet is concerned, it would increase from EUR 3 650 000 to EUR 4 000 000 (with a maximum of EUR 6 000 000). This proposed increase in thresholds will result in an increase in the number of enterprises that are not large enterprises and, indirectly, the number of companies subject to audit will also decrease significantly. Indeed, the criteria of Article 15 of the Company Code are used in company law to enable small companies to draw up their annual accounts according to the abbreviated scheme and exempt them from the obligations to prepare and publish a management report and to appoint a commissioner. The disadvantage concerns the sector of business reviewers. Indeed, the latter control only large companies that meet the criteria and such a change in them would be significant for the sector. It would result in major changes. However, the audit ensures the reliability of the figures and improves transparency in many cases. This is necessary for companies, staff, credit providers, suppliers, taxation, etc. The audit greatly reduces the risks of tax or social fraud and money laundering, and identifies risks and weaknesses. This obliges companies to protect themselves better and to improve on a permanent basis. Minister, I would like to know your position on this. Are you aware of the situation? Can you tell me what's going on with this case? Have you had any contact with the sector? What does it show? Are you in favour of doubling audit thresholds and accounting thresholds for their development independently in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u25	Mrs Cassart, with regard to the transposition of the 2013 accounting directive, I asked the Central Economic Council to give me an opinion, which is expected on 18 March. So I suggest you wait for him. Indeed, it does not seem to me very wise to react before this deadline. As for the 2014 Audit Directive, consideration is being given to the options to be proposed to the Member States. It is in this context that I have asked the Conseil Supérieur des Professions Economiques to lead a working group, which will be composed of representatives of the Institute of Corporate Reviewers, the Autorité des services et des marchés financiers, the Banque Nationale de Belgique, the SPF Economie and my firm, in order to address all the issues that arise in this regard. Here too, dear colleague, I suggest that you await the conclusions of this working group. If you wish, we can discuss this later in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u26	Minister, I understand. There's nothing to worry about. You are waiting for an opinion that will be delivered quickly and not in two years' time. A working group has been set up. The case is still urgent. July 15 is fast approaching. I will come back to you after Easter leave to discuss this issue and get answers to some questions. For my part, I will give one or the other thought in order to make the matter evolve. The lack of unanimity in this area makes your role all the more difficult. The role of a government is to decide. It will be important to establish the balance of the various elements, but appointment is made after the Easter holidays about the evolution of this file. My questions will remain the same, as will my analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u27	Mr President, I am surprised because I had tabled this question as a written question. I do not know why it was placed on the committee's agenda. So I'll read it. Minister, we all need sunlight. It is especially during the long winter months that the lack of sun leads some people to decide to fly to sunny destinations or turn to the solar bench. Although the risks of uncontrolled exposure to the sun are well known, many consumers still ignore them too often. However, these risks are extremely serious, since UV rays can cause severe damage to the skin, sometimes irreversibly. They can also, in some cases, cause cancer. Consumer information and compliance with existing standards are therefore of paramount importance. In Belgium, the use of solar banks is governed by the Royal Decree of 20 June 2002 on the operating conditions of tanning centres. In recent years, however, various studies and checks carried out by the SPF Économie with a number of solar bench operators, whether specialized or not – such as beauty institutes, hairdressers and fitness centres – have revealed particularly challenging results. In a 2009–2010 survey of 365 establishments (of the approximately 4,000 in our country according to Test-Achats), it was found that in 60% of the centres, consumers were not aware of the dangers of using solar benches. In 47% of cases, no assessment of the skin type was made with the assistance of the person in charge. Closer to us, in March 2014, the SPF Economy announced that in 2013, out of 94 controlled establishments, only 7.5% were in compliance with current legislation. These numbers are calling. Minister, are there synergies between the FPS Economy, responsible for monitoring compliance with existing standards, and the FPS Public Health, which verifies the impact of tanning centres on public health? Are the reported infringement rates, which have been relatively constant in recent years, in the European average? Do you have comparative statistics to situate the level of Belgium at EU level? It's not because we're hurting somewhere else that we have to hurt ourselves! As I tell my children, it is not because the neighbour misses school that they must miss too! But it is interesting from time to time to see how this happens in the other Member States. Is there a system for the labelling of tanning centres that allows the consumer to see more clearly? I believe that radical measures cannot always be taken because it is abuse that is harmful in such centres, but some rules must be respected. I think you have a mission in this area. Saying we're gonna close all the centers isn't the solution. We need to find a solution with the industry to ensure that controls are carried out with better results and that consumers are better informed, and perhaps have contact with the Public Health FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Cassart, my administration is responsible for the legislation on the operation of tanning centres, namely the Code of Economic Law. In this context, she participates in the working group of the SPF Health Council Public Health in the discussions on solar benches. In 2008-2009, a joint action by several Member States was organised by PROSAFE, a professional non-profit organisation active in market surveillance, and a follow-up action took place in 2010-2011. In view of its experience, Belgium has played an advisory role in these market surveillance actions, mainly financed by the European Commission. A second action was carried out in 2010-2011. Problems have been identified in all the participating States, but it should be recalled that there is no harmonised legislation at European level and that, therefore, the regulations are purely national. Unfortunately, I do not have comparative data. There is no system for the labelling of tanning centres in Belgian legislation. Questions about the tanning centres have already been asked by your colleague from Antwerp, to whom I replied that we were going to follow this serious situation and that I was going to use the inspections. There is also a dialogue with the tanning centre sector. As this is an important issue, we are working on all aspects to find solutions, especially when health is at risk. We have to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u29	Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to this sector. You answered the various questions. You do not have comparative statistics compared to the Member States. The situation is serious, you have to take it into account – and I think you will. There is a need for dialogue with the sector; indeed, it is an economic sector in its own right with which a monologue cannot be held, because there are people who do things well and who cannot therefore be penalized. I will come back to you, but I will first let you work on this matter because it will not be done with a magic wand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u30	Question No 2132 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is postponed. Question No 2216 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 2243 by Mr Benoit Hellings. Debates of the European Parliament 2271 by Mrs Rita Gantois has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u31	Minister, Mr Yüksel has already questioned you on this subject in plenary. My question had already been tabled at that time. I thought she'd be moved in, but that didn't happen, and I'm actually happy about that. After all, I still have a number of questions in the answer you gave in plenary. There are a lot of changes going on at Volvo Cars Gent. We were first assured that there would be no problem with employment and that the successor of the V40 would certainly be produced in Ghent, even for the European market. Now there appear to be problems, especially with the changeover. It is now said that workers will be technically unemployed for a long time at the time of the changeover. I notice that a lot of workers are worried and wonder whether that is the beginning of a dismantling or not. You have seen the CEO personally, Minister. Can you estimate the impact of the transformation at Volvo Cars Ghent on the employees of the Ghent factory? What guarantees has Volvo given you with regard to maintaining employment? Or did it say that the number of jobs would be reduced? What agreements were reached on the application of the system of economic unemployment? Will the three-shift system also be maintained during the transition period, with economic unemployment? That seems a bit of a contradiction. People are asking a lot of questions about that. Has there been talk of a concrete timetable for transformation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u32	Mrs Temmerman, I have already had a whole history with Volvo, with the Chinese taking over and then the discussion on the question of investment. So I fully understand your questions and concerns, which I share, because I also have some experience with other dossiers. Together with the Flemish Prime Minister and the Flemish Minister of Work, we have received the CEO of Volvo and his staff. It has been made clear that Volvo will make important investments in a new production platform in Ghent from 2016-2017. When journalists then asked what guarantees we have that Volvo will stay in Ghent, the CEO replied that the best guarantee he can give is that he invests heavily in the company in Ghent and that he believes in it. I'm assuming that was broadcast. I can only agree that Volvo makes important investments in the company in Ghent. The Flemish and federal governments are also making important efforts and the city of Ghent is making a big deal of money. I trust that these efforts will strengthen each other and that Volvo and Volvo's employees will be able to look to the future with some confidence. When I was in Sweden, I understood very clearly that costs should be reduced. The competitiveness pact, with reductions in wage costs, dates back to the previous federal government. It was also underlined that we are going further, including the wage gap, about which you are less enthusiastic, and the investment of 960 million in 2016, which the Flemish government is also making efforts in this area and that we will do a tax shift, the aim of which is to further reduce labour costs. The transition to a new production platform can count on temporary unemployment, which exists in Belgium. I have already said in plenary that Volvo, like any other company, can make use of it. I also think that Flanders will look into this with a view to providing training support, as I understand it from the current Prime Minister and his minister. I assume that Volvo will build on the new production platform, which will be set up in Ghent, the successor of the current S40 and later other, new smaller models. Hopefully, this will be done in large volumes, as Ghent will serve the entire world market. It is important that this was underlined with the exception of the Chinese market. We keep that framework in mind. I have also said that we will continue to monitor the dossier closely and we will continue to show the necessary vigilance together with you and the workers. In view of the CEO's replies to the planned investments and the commitment he has publicly expressed, we do not have to look at the situation negatively. However, I am the first to stress that we need to check at regular intervals whether everything is being implemented as announced. You will certainly help me to do so, should I lose sight of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also appreciate that you share my concern. I know that you have made efforts in the past. We agree that wage costs should be reduced. However, we do not agree with the fact that you are reducing wages, because wages are falling by an index jump. It is the cost of wages that should go down, Minister, not wages. Moreover, we are absolutely in favour of a tax shift, but the reduction in labour costs must be paid with capital gains tax. Maybe we'll meet again in the future. Thank you once again for your concern and I believe that we should continue to be attentive. We have indeed been assured that the new model, the successor to the V40, will be made there for the world market. If that model doesn't work, Ghent obviously has a problem. We have already experienced a number of problems of this kind in Belgium in the past. Everyone knows what the consequences could be. Thank you once again for sharing that concern, and we will indeed remind you of this once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u34	Mr Yüksel, I'm afraid you've arrived a little late. If you have heard part of the Minister's reply, you can still give a brief reply without, however, asking your whole question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise. I was present on another committee. Minister, I also questioned you about the issue during the plenary session last Thursday. Volvo must be kept in line with the promises made. You will undoubtedly do so. We too will follow up the dossier here in Parliament. As I said last time, the efforts made by our federal and Flemish governments must be matched by Volvo, especially the Ghent plant. So I look forward to the models that will be assigned to Ghent. Let us hope that the sale of these models will remain at the same level, but both Parliament and the Ghent micro level will have little impact on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament 2327 by Mrs Dierick and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mr Vermeulen's 2334 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u37	Mr Minister, the debate on the conditions of use of Facebook may not be unknown to you. It is striking that there is a strong focus on privacy. The Secretary of State for Privacy is profiling itself strongly in this respect. However, it seems equally relevant to me to look at the consumer aspect. Moreover, it was on the basis of the complaint from a German consumer organisation that the judicial mill in Germany was running. This has led to the application of Facebook's new conditions of use throughout Europe, except in Germany. In Belgium too, Facebook's new and far-reaching conditions of use may constitute an infringement of both Belgian and European rules. This was also concluded by researchers Ellen Wauters, Eva Lievens and Peggy Valcke of iMinds, coincidentally all women on the day after Women's Day, in their contribution to the New Legal Weekly of 10 December 2014. They argue that certain clauses based on consumer law arguments are unlikely to be enforced by European judges and are contrary to European law. They refer, inter alia, to the Directive, which provides that a contract is unfair if, contrary to good faith, it significantly distorts the balance between the rights and obligations of the parties under the contract to the detriment of the consumer. You are undoubtedly aware of this quote from consumer law. The European Court has therefore held that national courts have an obligation to rule on the possible unfairness of a clause, even if the consumer did not raise it in the proceedings. In the event of a procedure, Belgian judges will therefore also have to assess the conditions of use of Facebook, which is likely to result in a number of violations, as raised by the researchers mentioned earlier. Individual consumers are obviously not inclined to initiate a procedure, especially against a giant like Facebook, which has enough budget for legal advice. Given that this is a large group of consumers and that there is great social pressure to join Facebook, and therefore to subscribe to the conditions of use, it seems appropriate to me that Belgian consumer organisations and the FPS Economy are concerned about these matters. I come to my questions. Firstly, do you know of pending Belgian procedures on behalf of consumer organisations against the new conditions of use of Facebook? Secondly, what initiatives has the FPS Economy taken as a protector of consumer interests in the past legislatures and in the current legislature on the protection of consumer rights and the conditions of use of Facebook? Thirdly, has there been any consultation in the past between the FPS Economy, yourself or the previous minister, and Facebook on this issue? Are you planning a meeting like this? I've heard from your colleague, Bart Tommelein, that you've been in touch with both of you about this? What other initiatives will you take to enforce the fundamental rights of our citizens as Facebook consumers? Fourthly and finally, how do you and your services work together with the Privacy Commission and the Secretary of State for Privacy to achieve a coordinated action on the German model?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u38	Mr Dedecker, on the first point, I do not know at the moment what procedures would have been set up by consumer organisations in Belgium. You speak of a German organisation, but I have no knowledge of Belgian consumer organisations that would have done so. If you are aware of this, you may provide me with that information. At the moment, I don't have that information. Secondly, with regard to Facebook's terms of use, the Economic Inspectorate has not yet taken any action. You yourself have indicated why she has not yet taken action, because the privacy issue has been addressed in particular. The Economic Inspectorate is not competent for privacy. You know that. The law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy does not allow this. Within the European Union, Facebook operates for the management of the social network site from its location in Ireland. If our country wanted to act in the field of unlawful terms or unfair commercial practices, the Economic Inspectorate would have to make a request to the consumer authority of Ireland through the so-called CPC network, where CPC stands for Consumer Protection Cooperation. Thirdly, with regard to Facebook's terms of use, the FPS Economy was not yet in contact with the company, but in response to your question, I can argue that he should do so. The Economic Inspectorate does have contact with Facebook in files relating to third party practices that use Facebook. These include, for example, cases of unfair commercial practices or counterfeit goods offered through advertisements on Facebook. Fourthly, the Economic Inspectorate often consults with the Privacy Commission if that is useful for the handling of a specific dossier. These are questions relating to matters for which both departments are competent. These are, for example, spam legislation and cookie legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u39	For the record, Minister, I have no knowledge of Belgian procedures either, hence my question. It is, of course, regrettable that our consumer organisations are apparently not as proactive as their German colleagues. The scale effect of course plays a role in this, but some alertness would not be wrong with these organisations. You say it's a problem that Facebook operates from Ireland. Part of that is true, but Germany proves that this cannot be an argument for doing nothing. I also quoted explicitly from the legal opinion that the Belgian courts must also check the conditions of use in the light of Belgian and European legislation in this area. I therefore deeply regret that the Economic Inspectorate has not taken any initiative in this area under the current and, above all, the previous legislature. That's very unfortunate. However, I do appreciate your plea to do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u40	Mr President, Minister, SSL encryption is used by millions of websites to secure online purchases, financial transactions and the transmission of personal data. The intention is, of course, that this information should remain confidential during the transport of the data, that it should not be readable by third parties and, above all, that it should not be modified by third parties. You might know that. Every time your web browser has https instead of http, it means that you use that SSL security. Now it turns out that SSL security is not quite right with a large number of financial institutions. This is demonstrated by a study by Yeri Tiete, a Belgian security blogger who used a fairly simple, publicly available tool to test the SSL implementation of the banks. He has established that our banks that implement SSL in a very bad way and delay for a very long time with the implementation of important bug fixes and updates. Following its publication, a number of banks have taken swift action and put security in order. Of course, that doesn't make the situation any less worrying, because apparently some banks are reluctant to update that security because they want to ensure that computers that are still running on Windows XP are also able to continue to use those applications, even with the oldest browser versions that can be imagined in 2001, fourteen years ago in the IT sector. That seems to be an argument for not meeting the highest security standards, particularly strange. I therefore have a number of questions. Firstly, how do you evaluate this incident with a view to protecting consumers? Secondly, what is the responsibility of the banks in such security problems? Is it justified in this respect that they are still targeting irresponsible users of really very old software? Internet Explorer 6 is also such a prehistoric dinosaur. Thirdly, what measures do you consider possible to improve the protection of consumers and their data?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u41	Minister, I join my colleague. The press relayed a warning about the SSL encryption protocol used by some Belgian banks. It recalled the dangers associated with hackers, which could divert from sessions if http:// links are not properly defined. Several banks – not all of them because BNP Paribas Fortis and bpost are in order – respond that they do not want to install the latest updates, for fear that some of their customers will no longer be able to use their IT services due to the age of their computer or software. This does not seem to me a sufficient reason to refuse to secure transactions between customers and their banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u42	Mr President, Mr Dedecker and Mr Lalieux, Internet banking security is based not only on SSL encryption, but above all on the electronic signature for each transaction. The transactions that differ from the customer's profile will be monitored further. According to Febelfin's figures, internet banking fraud in Belgium decreased by an incredibly high percentage in 2014, 85%. These are the figures of Febelfin, but that is a venerable organization. It is still at the top of the safety agenda in comparison with other countries, according to the same organisation. As far as the responsibility of banks is concerned, they must respect national and European prudential rules on the security of internet payments. At Belgian level there is the circular on financial services via the internet of CBFA, now NBB, of 7 April 2009. At European level, on 19 December 2014, the European Banking Authority published directives on the security of internet payments. Both authorities require a high level of security that banks must adhere to. The National Bank of Belgium has confirmed to me that through targeted inspections it pays attention to the effectiveness of security measures on internet banking, examining a large number of security aspects and parameters, including SSL security. The aim is to strike a balance between the high level of safety required and user-friendliness. In doing so, it is important to raise consumer awareness and to inform consumers of the risks to which they are exposed and of the measures that can be taken to reduce those risks. In the first instance, I believe that the banks themselves should continue to raise awareness of the need for security of their own PC through their campaigns. Secondly, at national level, the Cyber Emergency Team plays an important coordinating role in the detection of security problems that occur on the Internet. Finally, there is also a role to be played by appropriate financial training. The Wikifin website already draws attention to the general security requirements for internet banking. I have a letter here, Mr President. Mrs Lalieux, I have sent a letter to Mr Jean-Paul Servais, President of FSMA. I asked the FSMA to deepen this issue further and to include the safety risks posed by the consumer's own personal computer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u43	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You talk about targeted inspections, but apparently this problem has not been detected before, even though there are fairly user-friendly tools to test this. User-friendliness is of course important, but this seems to me to be a limited problem. As Mrs Lalieux has already mentioned in her examples, there are many large banks that strive for the highest level of security. Maybe they too are no longer compatible with the oldest versions of Internet Explorer? I therefore believe that this is no longer an argument. You say that banks must make consumers aware of the need to use safe equipment. That's right. This is the heart of the matter. Denying really unsafe browsers seems to me to be a pretty basic element. I appreciate your letter to Jean-Paul Servais. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u44	Minister, thank you for your letter to the FSMA. If you go to the BNP Paribas website or the bpost site, you do not have the impression that they are not user-friendly compared to other banks who claim that they cannot update their software and security with regard to the information disclosed in the press. This argument is misleading. Again, I would not like to be held accountable only to the consumer – and we must do so – while some banks themselves do not make efforts in terms of the security of their own site. The consumer is, it is true, sometimes a little light in his codes and in his way of using the internet, but responsibility must come from both sides and first from the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u45	Minister, on the Radionomy platform, consumers can start an online radio themselves; 419 people do so effectively. The consumer can also listen to it if he wishes. There's pearls in there. The parties concerned had an agreement with SABAM. Now, however, it turns out that there is a kink in the cable. The 419 users of that platform suddenly received a letter from SABAM on the bus with invoices of up to 3 000 euros. That is a high amount for a few small hobbyists with often a very limited listening audience. However, Radionomy informs via a forum the following. I quote: "In our terms and conditions, it is clear that Radionomy will host and stream all the web radio performances created on our platform and will bear all the costs, including music rights. You as a producer signed the producer agreement with Radionomy and so you are covered in music rights." Radionomy hosts those cases and is therefore responsible to SABAM. Radionomy informs its producers that as producer of a Radionomyweb radio they don't stream a single second or kilobit themselves. Everything goes through Radionomy's server. The platform informs the producers that they have a radio hosted on the Radionomy platform. For rights issues, SABAM should contact Radionomy's legal department directly. Firstly, is the coverage of the amounts invoiced to the online radio services correct? A sum of EUR 3 000 to a hobbyist who has a few listeners seems to me quite high. Secondly, why was the agreement between Radionomy and SABAM terminated, should that be the case? Thirdly, how can Radionomy claim that his customers are still fine with music rights? Is the platform right? Isn't Radionomy right and it puts its customers in even bigger troubles? Fourthly, what happens to the radiomaker who follows Radionomy's message, but would be wrong afterwards? Fifthly, on which figures does SABAM base itself for the invoicing of the online radio services? To what extent does the supervisory authority of the management companies or the regulator have any say in the matter or any insight into it?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u46	Mr Dedecker, the so-called exclusive right of the author to broadcast a radio programme exclusively via the Internet requires the author's consent. Radionomy is an internet platform that allows users to create and host their own web radio services. In that context, SABAM and the Radionomy platform had entered into a contract providing for the payment by Radionomy of the copyright due by the users. SABAM has terminated the agreement with Radionomy and invokes Radionomy's non-compliance with its contractual obligations and licensing terms. This concerns a dispute between two private parties concerning the fulfilment of contract conditions. As Minister of Economy, I do not have the power to intervene in the matter. The assessment of compliance with the licensing conditions and the determination of who is right, SABAM or Radionomy, shall be the responsibility of the court of the facts if they are relied upon. SABAM has been contacted by the Supervisory Body of the companies for the management of copyrights. SABAM has indicated to plan a meeting with Radionomy to discuss the situation. In view of the fact that SABAM has a legal ground for collection and provides for an adjusted rate for the online offer of radio programmes, that company is entitled to address web radio services individually if they play the repertoire of SABAM. The Audit Service of the FPS Economy has requested SABAM to wait for the interview with Radionomy before proceeding further in relation to the individual web radio performances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems to me to be a good thing that SABAM is explicitly asking for maintenance to wait before the company takes any further steps. Talking works. That is a slogan from a bank and that might have been something for the previous question, but you undoubtedly know similar slogans that can confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u48	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, you are aware of the problem of indelicate trustees for co-owners and, behind them, tenants. Within this issue, the issue of commissions of suppliers not returned to condominiums is particularly complex given the difficulty of establishing evidence that rebates were paid to trustees and that trustees did not, in turn, pay them back. The ethics of real estate agents precludes trustees from collecting these supplier commissions, with the exception of cases in which the meeting of co-owners is informed of these commissions and these rebates are the responsibility of the co-owners. Minister, what measures does the IPI have at its disposal to identify and put an end to this type of practice? What has it actually done to put an end to it? Could the Economic Inspectorate not be responsible for conducting a survey of large suppliers to verify whether rebates are frequently awarded and to what extent they are returned to condominiums (energy, elevators, building safety)? What other alternatives can you and do you intend to implement to combat these malfeasances? It seems that the scale of this problem is such that it is absolutely necessary to react strongly and to do everything possible to change the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u49	Mr President, Minister, in the February 2015 edition of the IRC, a monthly edition edited by the National Union of Owners and Co-owners (SNPC) for their affiliated members, and which I will gladly make available to you, I was able to read an article about the commissioning of trustees by suppliers without the condominiums being informed or of course beneficiaries. There is no need to clarify that this practice is totally illegal and contrary to consumer protection, free competition and the Code of Ethics of Real Estate Professionals. Of course, in this kind of case, it is all about the evidence. On reading the article, it appears that the NCPS has evidence involving not only a trustee but also several suppliers active in the field of energy and elevators. According to the information I was able to gather, co-ownership in Belgium represents 72,000 buildings, 1 200 000 dwellings and 3.5 million inhabitants: so many citizens for whom co-ownership represents their property, their housing and their purchasing power. The denunciated commissioning is a clear infringement of this purchasing power. As such, the NCPS filed a complaint with the Economic Inspectorate and the Autorité de la concurrence and requested that an investigation be initiated with condominium suppliers regarding these commissions paid to trustees. My questions are as follows: Have you been aware of this file and are you aware that the Economic Inspectorate has received a complaint? Several letters would have been sent to you, but without follow-up, which in fact justifies my question. If so, did you ask to meet with the NCPS in order to confront the truthfulness of their comments and analyze the evidence available to it? In 2007, the European Commission imposed a fine on a cartel of ascendorists for price cartels; if the case before us is correct, what flexibility do you have to protect these consumers, the co-owners, in relation to these illegal commissions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the matter; the SNPC has sent me several letters in this respect. In the meantime, an answer has been given. I did not ask to meet the organisation for a simple reason: a condominium is not just a consumer. Under the Code of Economic Law, only a natural person may be a consumer, while a condominium is, under the terms of the Civil Code, a legal person. The problem therefore falls outside my competence. Moreover, a dispute between a condominium and its trustee is of a civil nature and can therefore be brought before the judge. The exercise of a trustee activity is reserved for real estate agents and other professions subject to a code of ethics. Legislation in this area is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for the Middle Classes and SMEs; this does not provide a legal basis for the Economic Inspectorate to act. As regards the rules on economic competition, their application is ensured by the Belgian Competition Authority, which acts independently. In matters falling under my jurisdiction, there is none that gives me the power to entrust the Economic Inspectorate with a criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u51	Minister, I am not going to tell you that I am satisfied with your answer. After hearing you, I fear the problem will persist. You should see how you could have any power in this area. You say that a condominium is not a consumer as such. Behind the legal terms, you have no doubt that there are people who are sometimes aggrieved. So I'm a little worried about your answer. I hope that you will be attentive to possible loopholes that may prompt you to intervene. In any case, I thank you for the clarity of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u52	Minister, I also thank you for your very clear answer. You will agree with me that this situation is absolutely unacceptable. These condominiums generate income for a lot of people. Also, you must not forget the tenants. Admittedly, it is difficult to act in such a way as to put an end to such abuse. I want proof of the article I was referring to. One auditor stated that, for several years in a row, he had examined the accounts extremely accurately without ever being aware of the abuses he and the other co-owners had suffered. You explain to us that this problem is alien to your field of competence. I'm sure you, like us, regret it. I imagine that perhaps we could ask ourselves whether, in the long run, the measures necessary for the protection of the persons concerned should be foreseen. Under certain circumstances, one does not fail to be creative.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u53	Mr President, Minister, according to Assuralia, the profile of a driver deemed at risk is "generally that of a motorist who has accumulated several accidents in a relatively short period of time" or, in other cases, of claims due to aggravating circumstances such as drunk driving, which usually results in a refusal of insurance. The Pricing Office is there as a safety net to prevent drivers from driving without mandatory insurance. If a driver uses the Pricing Bureau, he must have been refused by three different companies. Another case is that the premium applied for must be five times higher than any other commercial premium. However, the Bureau recorded an increase of 6,500 requests for drivers between 2013 and 2014. That's an impressive figure. The increase in the refusal of insurance by insurers - 29,340 drivers refused or placed on the door during the same period - is justified by the fact that these drivers would be "at risk", i.e. they would cause too many accidents, and by a desire to restore a financial balance between entry and exit. However, there is no increase in the number of drivers at risk, and even there would be a significant number of drivers who are not considered dangerous and still have their contract terminated by their company. This is an arbitrary practice that endangers all road users. Car insurance is compulsory insurance, I remind you. By refusing to insure normal risks in responsible drivers, insurers do not perform their function. Minister, have you had any information about these financial choices? Do you intend to put an end to this and sanction this unacceptable practice? I've been back on the subject a number of times, minister. And although there's not much about consumer protection in your policy statement, it said you're going to look at auto insurance. I think it is more than time to restore the balance between insurers and insureds.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u54	Mrs Lalieux, I can inform you that the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 is precisely trying to address the problem you are raising. The law provides that the insurer who decides to terminate the contract by reason of the modification of a risk must notify the policyholder in writing in an express and reasoned manner. Moreover, "this decision and its reasons must be communicated to the policyholder individually and formulated in a clear and understandable language for the policyholder. In the statement of reasons, the insurer shall in particular set out the data transmitted or not by the lessee, which it used in the assessment of the risk, as well as the criteria for segmentation which it applied and which led it to take its decision." Since the entry into force of the Insurance Act, the insurer has therefore had an obligation to justify the termination of the contract and to explain that decision to the insured. The same applies where the insurer refuses to grant insurance to a candidate policyholder: it must state the reasons for its choice and, in particular, the information provided or not by the policyholder, which it used in the assessment of the risk and the criteria for segmentation which it applied and which led it to take its decision. In the future, it will therefore be more difficult for an insurer to arbitrarily refuse to insure a person. However, it is still too early to draw any conclusions from the application of this provision, since the law came into force only on November 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u55	Minister, I am well aware of the law, as we have worked with Mr. Vande Lanotte. It was not easy to have it accepted by the other parties of the previous majority. In any case, this law is important to avoid arbitrariness in the insurance world. I'm not saying they're all doing it, but many of them are doing it to balance their accounts. In addition, these are pre-statutory cases, dating back to 2013 and 2014. I would appreciate it if, after a year, you would commission an evaluation of the law at the FPS Economy to see if it is being properly applied. Nearly 30,000 people have been denied coverage and may not be able to obtain insurance from the Pricing Office. They are therefore at risk of driving without compulsory insurance. That does not prevent, Minister, real work on the law and automobile insurance, as you provided for in your policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u56	Minister, the National Bank has asked that the Belgian banks change their pricing policy. In its 2014 annual report, the National Bank advocates making some products more expensive, e.g. by adjusting interest rates on those products. In the long term, customers would have to pay the true cost for each product, according to the National Bank. The National Bank thus says it wants to address and address the sector's low profitability and high cost structure. In its annual report it therefore insists that the Belgian banks develop a model that ensures their sustainable profitability. Banks are thus encouraged to pass the costs on to their customers. I am sorry that I have to say so to the families and businesses. It is all the more remarkable that this recommendation comes at a time when the first results of the banks for the financial year 2014 show that they are again achieving returns on equity of more than 10%, in an environment let's not forget low interest rates. BNP Paribas Fortis commented that the recommendation of the National Bank will be discussed at sector level. That, of course, raises some questions, as tariff policy is a matter for individual banks. Minister, do you agree with the recommendation of the National Bank? What is the position of the FSMA, as a consumer supervisor, on that recommendation? What is wrong with the Belgian banking model? The National Bank had repeated talks about this. What's so wrong with that model? Will you ask the sector to review the banking model rather than pass the costs on to families and businesses? Is it true that there will be sector consultations on the pricing policies of banks in general? Will you ask the Competition Authority to initiate an investigation into the alleged price agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u57	Mr President, Mr Temmerman, sometimes I am challenged to interfere with matters on which I have no competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u59	Yeah, well, there's other consequences. I, like you, have listened to and read the message from the National Bank, but I am here as Minister of Consumer Affairs. In this capacity, I am particularly concerned about the need for clear, transparent remuneration structures in a competitive market. Consumers need to know what they are paying for banking services. In this respect, I advocate very transparent remuneration structures at the FSMA. This principle is confirmed, inter alia, in the legal code of conduct implementing the MiFID Directive. These will be strengthened in the new MiFID II Directive. When implementing this European directive, which is scheduled for July 2016, I will ensure that this transparency will be increased. As far as the Competition Authority is concerned, Mr Temmerman, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that this is an autonomous institution, which itself sets out its priorities and starts researching them. I cannot hypothesize the autonomy of this institution by taking certain actions myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, you will not be surprised that I am not very happy with what you are saying. I think you, as a minister, have a competence in this matter. The Prize Observatory can check how prices are passed on to consumers. You certainly have the power to ask them how this is done by the banks and whether this is done in a regulatory manner. I'd like to ask you to include that authority. I am somewhat surprised that you say you cannot give the order to the FSMA. I think you can. Certainly as far as the Prize Observatory is concerned, you have full authority. I hope that we will have a clearer answer. Of course, we are all in favour of transparent tariffs, but if banks decide how they will pass things on, you, as minister, will certainly have the authority and the power to do something about it. Let us not forget that these same consumers have been responsible for the rescue of the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u61	Mrs Temmerman, if you estimate my powers more broadly than I do, I will look into that. I'd be sorry if I didn't use my powers full force. I feel that as an encouragement and then there is not much to do to find out where the limits of my powers lie. I'll take that and get it checked out. Secondly, I may have expressed myself wrong. The FSMA is not the same as the Competition Authority. I will argue in favour of a larger, more transparent remuneration structure. At the level of the Competition Authority, and not the FSMA, I said that I cannot intervene because it is an autonomous institution that sets its own priorities. As far as the FSMA is concerned, it is clear that we are continuing to work towards greater transparency. This has been included in the European Directive for July 2016. As for the Prize Observatory, I'll take that point and see if I'm qualified.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u62	Thank you for that, Minister. It would also be interesting to get the advice of the FSMA about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u63	Mr President, Minister, at the meeting of our committee on 3 February, I asked you about micro-enterprises. I had insisted on administrative simplification, a current desire to alleviate these small entities, which must be implemented properly. However, administrative simplification had to ensure a minimum number of figures, in my view. I asked you several questions in order to know, among other things, the criteria for the concept of micro-enterprise, the conditions to be met to benefit from this reduction and the number of undertakings covered by this system. Following my question in committee, you replied that you had asked for an opinion from the Central Economic Council (which brings together employers' representatives and trade unions) on the transposition of the directive. In particular, the Central Economic Council must decide whether or not to take over the new category of micro-enterprises in Belgium, on the thresholds to be applied to small companies and on administrative simplification for small companies. This notice was due to arrive on February 13, 2015. That's why I'm coming back to you today. Minister, have you received the opinion of the Central Economic Council? Can you tell me what's coming out of it? Are you now able to answer my initial questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u64	Mr President, dear colleague, my answer will be brief. The Central Economic Council has informed me that its draft opinion is still being prepared within the relevant Accounting System Sub-Committee, given the complexity of the dossier. It will be submitted for approval by the Plenary Assembly of the Central Economic Council on 18 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u66	Minister, together with my fellow Members from the Flemish Parliament, I am concerned about the forthcoming free trade agreement that the European Union wants to conclude with America. According to a number of studies carried out by the European Commission, TTIP would have a positive economic impact. Spectacular figures were waved. An ambitious agreement would generate an additional growth of half a percent of GDP year after year, or EUR 545 extra disposable income per family mode, and would create several hundred thousand jobs. In the meantime, however, many different studies have been published which use other models to measure the impact of the Convention, and which make the European Commission's predictions even more fundamental. Economic growth, according to the new impact analyses, would only occur over many years and is limited. This growth will not be achieved without a loss for national authorities, by the abolition of import taxes. Moreover, the Convention would put strong pressure on the EU's strict social and environmental standards to protect citizens and the environment. The study carried out by the University of Massachusetts on the basis of the United Nations Global Policy Model scared the hell out of me. The negative impact on Belgium and the countries around us is impressive: export losses, job losses and a decrease in economic growth. In other words, I do not believe that this treaty is our panacea against the crisis. Prime Minister Bourgeois told my Flemish colleague that the FPS Economy is currently studying the impact of TTIP on Belgium. Is that right? When was the study ordered and by whom? In what sense is the study complementary to the sustainability impact assessment ordered by the European Commission? Who will carry out this study and by when can we expect the results? Can you tell me how far this study has progressed? What's the end goal of this study? What exactly is being investigated? Are only the economic effects examined, such as employment, economic growth, incomes, exports, the share of labour in GDP and government revenue, or are social impacts such as the stability of financial markets, the vulnerability to international crises, European economic integration and the impact on our social and environmental regulations? Which econometric model is used in that study and which assumptions are used? Is the CGE model used, as in the studies carried out by the European Commission, or is the GPM used, as in the recent study of the University of Massachusetts? Or is another econometric model used?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u67	Mr President, Minister, negotiating a free trade treaty is a particularly difficult exercise: it is a question of granting views, rules of operation and customs, which can be very different from each other. But it is above all a matter of achieving a common goal: positive economic benefits for all the parties to the Treaty. Negotiations on the Transatlantic Treaty have been under way for more than a year, and are expected to be completed by the end of the year. We therefore have ten months to prepare for and assess the gains that Belgium will be able to make in its various economic sectors. As a small country with a central position, Belgium is an economy largely dependent on its exports. It is therefore essential for Belgium to ensure optimal trading conditions in order to guarantee and improve growth and employment rates. The United States is Belgium's largest foreign investor and accounts for at least 5% of our exports. They are therefore a major economic partner for our country. That is why we need to pay attention – I did not say that we should let everything be done – to the transatlantic negotiations and to the implementation of the treaty that could result from them. About ten months would therefore separate us from the conclusion of the negotiations between the European Union and the United States. Several years, however, separate us from the actual entry into force of the Treaty, since it will have to be ratified by the European Parliament and by the various national parliaments, and, for Belgium, also by the regional parliaments. Minister, can we now assess the gains Belgium will gain through the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP)? Does the SPF Economy reflect on the gains that our companies can derive from this Treaty? Can we already consider taking steps to take advantage of positive measures as soon as possible if this Treaty is signed? Which sectors will benefit most from TTIP in Belgium? Can you gather them together to take the lead with them? Finally, has the government drawn up a communication plan to explain this transatlantic treaty and its interests for our country, so that citizens can better understand the usefulness of such a project and the position of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u68	Minister, I have also tabled a question about TTIP and its effects on our economy. Unlike Mrs Vanheste's approach, my approach is more positive. I understand that Mrs Vanheste is quite critical of the negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement. I'm much more optimistic myself. The treaty can offer an opportunity, even for our economy and our trade here, since, as Mrs Cassart has rightly mentioned, the United States of America, excluding Europe, are Belgium's largest trading partner. The Convention can therefore certainly create additional export opportunities and offer additional opportunities for a number of companies in Belgium. Of course, there are various concerns, including in our country, as perhaps in several countries of the European Union. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is a process between the European Union and the United States. Each Member State will, of course, have to initiate a confirmation process or approval process. However, it is essentially a process of negotiations between the European Union and the United States. I therefore personally believe that the most important communication and negotiation strategy should be decided at that level. Of course, we must ensure that our efforts and the interests of our economy, our agriculture and food are taken into account. However, let us not make our country the main issue in itself. Let us do so for the European Union, because there are also important geopolitical reasons, in addition to economic ones. They are also important in the current context. I have some questions for you about the file. How do you, in your capacity as Minister of Economy, monitor in particular the input and added value for our trade and economy in general in the ongoing European negotiations? Do you have any idea of the benefits that the treaty could bring to our country? Finally, there is already a great deal of transparency in the European Commission on the running path. How will you, from Belgium, ensure the transparency of the process vis-à-vis the European Commission, including our Member State? How can our country continue to commit itself to this negotiation process?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u69	Minister, if I may put on my grain of salt. I chair this committee and, from time to time, I also ask a question. First of all, I would like to say that this dossier, which is now known by its initials (TTIP), certainly deserves a broader debate than the oral questions put here. At this stage, everyone is concerned about the state of play and has some considerations on the file. I will not surprise you by saying that I agree with Mrs Vanheste rather than with that of our two colleagues in the majority. Firstly, I note that the studies and figures produced by the European Union are quite optimistic and favourable, arguing that this Treaty will bring growth and jobs. Mrs Vanheste has given us more recent studies, which are more reserved in terms of results and which have less euphoric questions than the Commission's official figures. The second point is that of the debate on opacity or transparency. I do not think there is much transparency at the moment, when it should be done. Given the crucial importance of the content of the negotiations, it should certainly be greater. Perhaps some colleagues who express the positive elements in terms of jobs and growth do not hear the questioning, the concerns, the oppositions that exist on this TTIP. I can hear them. I think there is a social, trade union, associative, political, citizen opposition that is expressed through white cards, petitions, mobilizations on the Internet and others. The central question is whether, in the event of approval of the free market, the negotiators should be given a blank meeting. What will be the scope? To which sectors will the content of the negotiations apply? Will beacons be required for certain sectors? Where do the merchant and non-market sectors stop? This subject raises many questions. In addition, there may be two ideological lines to read the file. There's Reagan's line saying, "The state is the problem and the market is the solution." The invisible hand will fix everything. We saw with the financial crisis what was happening, where the problem came from and who was being asked for the solution. We believe that certain benchmarks are necessary in these negotiations. I share the concerns expressed by some. In conclusion, Minister, I join the questions about an objective study. Several colleagues spoke of this study. Does the FPS Economy have or will it carry out an objective assessment of the impact of jobs and growth on our country in relation to these negotiations? There was a free trade agreement between the European Union and South Korea. Is there an evaluation of this free trade agreement with South Korea? If so, could you provide us with this document?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u70	Mr President, a centre of expertise was set up by our administration, so that external experts should not be called upon for every analysis of a free trade agreement. The tender was issued in July 2014 and assigned to Professor Bayar of the ULB. The full training of the staff of the centre and the development of the model will take a minimum of 18 months. We do our utmost to achieve results for the TTIP in the short term. No study has therefore been ordered and the government does not yet have an assessment of the impact of a possible agreement on growth and employment. The FPS Economy itself will assess the potential macroeconomic effects of an agreement once negotiations are further advanced. A social impact assessment is wider but is probably outside the scope of the FOD. Moreover, the European Commission will carry out a study on the impact on the European Union without addressing the individual Member States. As far as the computational general equilibrium model is concerned, this model was indeed considered in the first training of the employees to measure the economic impact. However, the partial equilibrium model of international trade is also eligible to complement the computable general equilibrium or CGE model, as this allows us to perform analyses at a very detailed level up to the level of the tariff lines. This free trade agreement has the potential to have a significant impact on our trade flows with the US and to lead to export-led growth. However, it is too early at the moment to identify with certainty the benefits that this trade agreement can bring to our country. The European Commission is currently taking an exceptional step in the transparency it gives with regard to its negotiating mandate and the negotiation issues. I assume that the European Commission will continue its efforts with regard to this transparency, which can only benefit the level of the many debates currently taking place in regional, national and European parliaments and in public opinion. In your committee too, Mr President, there are different positions. And that's normal. I hope that with the documents and results of the different models, we can have a discussion with figures and impact in the future. It's the most important thing for you and me right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u71	Minister, Minister Bourgeois did say that he ordered a study, but I am somewhat reassured that it is not about such a study, if I understand it correctly. I was afraid you wouldn't see the bad or the negative. I therefore asked you to warn you about these various studies. After all, the results were far apart and that troubled me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u72	But not anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u73	We'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u74	Minister, I know this is not a simple matter, but it is of paramount importance. I don't think I took a radical stance when I asked my questions. There are different sensitivities in the majority and in the opposition, but the primary objective of all political groups is to bring something to Belgium. However, we do not always get everything we want. The whole thing is to weigh the pros and cons, to determine what is best for Belgium and to see if this Treaty is acceptable. As far as transparency is concerned, there are not many elements. I hope that this matter will be dealt with in the best possible way. Finally, I think that parliamentarians, whether they are from the majority or the opposition, will come back to you as we get information.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I assume that this will continue to be followed by both the FPS Economy, your services and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u76	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in general, the question is closed with the phrase "the incident is closed". In this case, the debate is not. You have been open to deepening this discussion. I am sure that this committee, and indeed Parliament in general, will want a more in-depth debate, in particular, on the results and content of the ongoing negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u77	Question No 2803 by Mrs Lalieux is annulled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u78	Minister, the government has decided that there will be an index jump from this year on. Wage earners don't see their pay rise with the index anymore. I'm holding my heart for what's coming. Life is becoming more expensive, wages are falling, and the purchasing power of families is under pressure. The Flemish government has already indicated that, despite the index jump for wages, rental prices will follow the index. That's a jaw blow for all tenants. However, rents are not the only major costs that follow the index. Various insurance premiums, such as car, funeral, fire and residential insurance and annuities, are also linked to the index. Mr Minister, will these premiums follow the index or will there be an index jump for these premiums?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u79	Mr President, Minister, I will not be much longer. We consider index jump to be totally inefficient both socially and economically, as everyone has said. But this government persists, it is life! The cost of living increases, so, whatever you say, there is a net loss of the purchasing power of the population. To restore a minimum of social justice, we believe that the government must act to reduce the cost of living, to respond to this index jump, since wages will no longer be adjusted. I really hope that the rents will be the responsibility of the regions, as we are sure, in Wallonia and Brussels, that there will be a blockage of the rent index. I hope that this jurisdiction is permanently removed from the federal government because I have more confidence in the governments of the Brussels Region and the Walloon Region than in the federal government. Minister, since you are the Minister of the Heart, as Mrs Onkelinx said in plenary last Thursday, will your heart go towards the purchasing power of our citizens and the most vulnerable of them by freezing the index in the insurance field as well? It would be just justice! You know that the previous government – and your party was! – had also decided to block electricity and gas prices between 1 April 2012 and 31 December 2012. It had also reduced VAT on the same prices. This is a measure that you can take as well. My question is simple and direct: do you intend to freeze the index of variable electricity and gas contracts to preserve the purchasing power of citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, life is not simple! My answer will be brief, but I hope it will be very clear. The bill, which includes, among other things, index jump and which was approved by the Council of Ministers on February 27, 2015, will soon be tabled in the House. The scope of index jump applies only to wages, salaries and allowances. Therefore, as regards insurance premiums, variable electricity and gas contracts, there is no change in indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u81	You say nothing changes. There's an index jump or there's no one. What am I supposed to say to this? Your dictionary doesn't seem to contain the word "welding scale" in your dictionary. The balance is not balanced. Anyway, we'll see what comes of it, won't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u82	Mr President, I am not going to say to the minister that I thank him for his answer. I believe that there is in this government – and we have been denouncing it since the beginning – double standards. It is the worker, the citizen, the social beneficiary who loses purchasing power and pays for austerity measures. It is companies, insurers or even gas and electricity operators that do not have too many problems – it is enough to see their turnover – who make money on the backs of the said workers who have lost their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Maya Detiège's 2666 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u84	For several years now, Minister, advertising recruiters have no longer been allowed to recruit companies for advertising without clearly indicating that recruitment constitutes an offer of contract for payment. In addition, the price and duration must be indicated in the largest font. Despite a tightening of legislation, a number of infringements of the law have been re-established in Limburg. TVV, a German company from Hamburg, is trying to recruit companies for its online business directory "Company-Portal Belgium." The fine print shows that whoever responds is bound by a three-year contract of 987 euros per year, just for an entry on a otherwise unknown website. The FPS Economy is commissioned to monitor the Belgian goods and services market, and to ensure that the sellers comply with the economic regulations. One of the objectives of the General Board of Control and Mediation of the FPS Economy is to stop unfair commercial practices in the general interest. Companies affected by such practices may inform the ADCB. Mr President, first of all, how many complaints have been received so far with regard to the German company TVV? Secondly, are there any complaints from other provinces regarding this company? Thirdly, are companies that have signed a contract, although the firm would not have complied with the rules, bound by the contract? Fourthly, how many other companies are known to the FPS Economy for such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u85	As regards the first and second questions, the Economic Inspectorate has already received many complaints about the German company TVV in question. I have a list for you, which starts in 2010 with 274 files, 231 files in 2014 and in 2015 to date 98 files. It is certainly not a specific Limburg problem. I cannot give the breakdown to the province of origin of the dossiers, because we do not have them. Thirdly, when a dispute is brought before him, it is for the court to rule in the present case on the infringement of Article VI.107 of the Code of Economic Law and on the consequences of the infringement. I can refer to the principle of fraus omnia corrumpit, in so far as the contract was indeed created by means of deception. On the basis of that principle, cheating cannot be relied upon in contractual or non-contractual relations in order to justify the application of a rule of law to its advantage. In general, such practices are condemned by the courts on the basis of scams and/or attempted scams within the meaning of Article 496 of the Criminal Code. Fourthly, as far as the number of files received by the Economic Inspectorate on business directories is concerned, I have made a nice table for you. In 2011 there were 1 127, in 2014 there were 725 and in 2015 there are 260 to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u87	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled many questions, because we do not see you often. I took advantage of it because I knew you were coming. Batibouw just finished this weekend. This is an opportunity to take stock of the legal framework for mortgage credit. Under the former legislature, we were waiting for a European directive to arrive before we passed new laws on this type of credit. Now that the directive is there, should mortgage credit not at last have the same protection as consumer credit? Borrowing is much more of a consumer's responsibility. Last year, however, there were 34,000 mortgage loans that failed to pay. This is a 10% increase in one year. This is huge and we know that this indicates an increase in over-indebtedness, as these credits lead to large arrears. Mortgage lenders need to be more accountable. They must have an obligation to verify the creditworthiness of the client. Similarly, the information must be more legible in order to allow a better comparison between tenders. The display of the all-in rate must also be mandatory and the customer must be aware that he or she is not obliged to take the associated products (e.g. fire insurance or balance insurance) from the same bank, as the law specifies. These are information that the lender should be obliged to provide. Minister, do you intend to work on the Mortgage Credit Act? If so, do you agree that there is a need for the same protections for these customers as for consumer credit? Do you think it is important to be able to compare offers transparently and therefore to require the display of rates aIl in? The costs associated with the purchase of real estate are now high and hinder access to property for part of the population. Are you planning to start a debate on the subject, including the removal of federal mortgage fees? On the other hand, I come back to you regarding the Partyka-Lalieux law, which is not yet in force, or is it? When I introduced my question, it had not entered into force. You're going to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, the SPF Economy and my firm are currently working on the transposition of the mortgage directive. The transposition is scheduled by 21 March 2016. The Directive provides for a level of protection for consumers adapted to this type of credit and similar to that offered in relation to consumer credit, in particular in terms of pre-contractual information, credit verification before the conclusion of any contract, minimum knowledge and competence of lenders, etc. In addition, the Directive provides for the promotion of good practice, in particular with a view to promoting better consumer information. The all-in rate already exists. This is the overall effective annual rate. As for the abolition of mortgage charges, it is up to my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt, Minister of Finance, to give his opinion. Then the Partyka Act came into force. The Ministerial Order of 24 December 2014 to establish the rules of procedure of the Office for the Monitoring of Pricing was published in the Moniteur belge on 30 December 2014. Therefore, files may be submitted to the Bureau by insured candidates who have been refused insurance for the remaining balance or who have been requested an overprime.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that this transposition will take place quickly, because it does not require exceptional work. I would like it to be the subject of real parliamentary work, as was the case with Mr Vande Lanotte's Economic Code. I am referring to a work in which we can discuss and table amendments to try and move forward together. It must not be a law passed in an emergency. It has been a long time since we wanted to amend this law on mortgage credit. Second, the all-in rate may exist, but it is not indicated everywhere. The outstanding balance insurance and fire insurance must be taken into account. A supplement of 0.5 for the first one weakens the competitiveness of mortgage credit. So I'll ask your finance colleague. With regard to the Partyka law, it seems to me that discussions still revolve around the standardized questionnaire. Has it been published?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u90	I am advised that the general list has been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u91	It's perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u92	Mr President, Minister, in 2013, the previous government, under the leadership of Mr Vande Lanotte (he had worked extensively as Minister of Economy and Consumer Protection), had completely reformed the competition authority by creating an independent bicephalous structure: the Belgian Competition Authority. The objective was clear: to fight against the lack of responsiveness and the infinitely long deadlines for action and punishment, so that between the discovery of a price agreement and a judgment rendered, the consumer continued to suffer the consequences. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the status of the cases currently being dealt with by the Belgian Competition Authority? How many files have been opened? How many files have been finalized? How many experts have been hired? What is the average processing time of a file? What is the number of appeals on the decisions of the Belgian Competition Authority? Finally, with regard to the specific issue of "supermarkets", which is particularly sensitive to the consumer, can you inform us of its progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u93	Mr President, dear colleague, between 6 September 2013 and the end of February 2015, i.e. in just under 18 months, the Belgian Competition Authority (ABC) decided in 27 merger cases, opened 17 cases of infringement of the competition rules, decided in 8 cases concerning infringement of the competition rules and transmitted communications and complaints in 3 other cases. In addition, 20 cases of infringement of the competition rules opened before 6 September 2013 are already under investigation. In terms of concentration and interim measures, the CBA must decide within a very short period of time. In the case of restrictive practices, the time limits are longer, given the nature of the investigation but, above all, given the actions brought before the final decision. As far as recruitment is concerned, the Belgian Competition Authority has not yet recruited additional experts. I would add that it is currently developing its own statute, as provided by law. I'm following this file closely. As regards the number of appeals from the Belgian Competition Authority's reformed decisions, only one of the 27 merger decisions is currently the subject of an appeal to the Court of Appeal. In addition, all three communications and grievances were appealed to the Court of Appeal. As regards the supermarkets' case in particular, the parties brought an action in September 2013 following the statement of objections. This action had the effect of suspending proceedings before the Belgian Competition Authority until the judgment of the Court of Appeal. The latter has not yet given a final judgment in both cases. Finally, an appeal was also brought against a decision on interim measures, but it appears to have become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u94	Mr President, I thank the Minister. It is always said that there is a need for a good regulator of competition in completely liberalised sectors. It is obviously about the dynamics of our businesses, but also about consumer protection. I can hear everything. I do not know if it will be possible to recruit experts in view of the reduction in staff that you impose on all administrations. I am going to question your Minister of Justice because it was known that the weak point of this reform was the appeals and the Court of Appeal; indeed, the idea of a Court of Contracts had not been accepted by the previous government. So it was known that, by appealing, there would again be a period of one year, two years, three years, six years, during which the consumer would obviously pay the same price, if there was agreement on prices, for example, and especially for supermarkets. I therefore think that there should be consultation with your colleague from Justice, who has a lot of difficulties, I understand, with regard to the Court of Appeal; there was a promise from the previous government to appoint experts at the level of the Sixth Chamber of the Court of Appeal in Brussels, so that they could properly deal with these rather technical appeals to which not all these magistrates are appointed. That is why these experts are so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u95	Mr President, Minister, I recalled the purpose of the previous reform. However, for reforms to be effective, there is obviously a need for auditors. The Belgian Competition Authority has a theoretical budget for a framework of sixty-six auditors. It would appear that the framework is still not complete and that the auditors are understaffed. This necessarily has implications for working conditions, the opening of files and the follow-up of current instructions, again, to the detriment of the consumer. It would also appear that the issue of the status of auditors has not yet been resolved. Minister, what is the theoretical and current framework for auditors? Can you tell us if the framework will actually be completed? If so, will the Belgian Competition Authority be strengthened and by how many auditors? As far as the status of auditors is concerned, can you inform us of the status of the auditor and let us know when it will be effective? Can we also tell whether the Belgian Competition Authority will benefit from own staff or seconded staff? Finally, what about the drafting of the working regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u96	Mr President, I have also sent a letter to the Belgian Competition Authority (ABC). A copy will be provided to the members, in particular to Ms. Lalieux. Since September 2013, the Belgian Competition Authority has been an autonomous body with legal personality. As a result, this body has become responsible for its own personnel management, the development of its own statute and recruitment. The purpose of the reform was to bring the Belgian Competition Authority's framework to sixty-six full-time equivalents and to provide these staff with their own status. This proved to be impracticable, given that pension contributions for staff were not taken into account when the budget was drawn up. The 2014 staff plan developed by the CBA included recruitments to reach 57 full-time equivalents. However, the Authority was unable to recruit collaborators last year. Currently, it has 38 full-time equivalents. Following the coming into force of the CBA reform, its management committee is currently discussing a draft staff administrative and financial status. I share your concern about the proper functioning of this body. For this reason, I have sent a letter, which you may have received, to the steering committee asking it to provide me with its views no later than the end of this month. Finally, the Management Committee is also working on the drafting of a working regulation in the event that the Authority has a staff with its own status.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer. Thirty-eight full-time equivalents out of sixty-six... the companies, the department stores, still have beautiful days ahead of them! The most liberalised countries, like England, have real regulators in all areas because they are the ones who guarantee equality between everyone in a market. We know today that this is not the case because our Belgian Competition Authority is not working. I am not going to throw the stone at you: it has not worked effectively for decades. It must be ensured that it can recruit and give staff status. It is not yet known whether it is a separate or separate status; there is legal uncertainty for staff. In addition, a competition authority is independent. But we're a parliament. You're a minister. Care must be taken to ensure that regulation works properly. I will therefore continue to question you because the existing malfunctions must be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u98	Mr. Chair, Minister, following your statements of intent to make liability insurance mandatory for contractors, the Confederation of Construction is concerned about increased costs and a slowing down of the construction process. Even if, since 2006, architects have been obliged to take responsibility for their specific work, for the faults they might commit on the site, most of the contractors are not because, in general, they themselves take responsibility for repairing the defects that are in their construction. For some industry specialists, if insurance is a solution, it can, when the compensation is actually needed because of a major disaster, lead to a blockage of the yard following the procedures initiated by the various parties. And if all parties are provided with legal defence, it can go on forever. French mandatory insurance models show that ancillary costs are significant and result in a 5% increase in construction costs, with a slowing down of the process while the purpose of the law is immediate compensation. A construction conciliation commission was set up in 2001 at the initiative of the Confederation, Test-Achats and architects. It seems to us important to hear this private initiative in the debate, to put insurers, manufacturers and policies around the same table and to arrive at a solution that does not entail increases in costs and procedures. Minister, in the debate you want to begin, do you think you are working in this way, with a consultation of all sectors, before any decision is taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u99	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, in recent weeks we have invited all stakeholders. Among other things, we have received the Confederation of Construction, the Bouwunie, Federal Assuralia, CSTC, the Order of Architects and the Construction Conciliation Commission. After these discussions, which are almost completed and which must give me and my firm a comprehensive overview of the problem, I intend to develop a proposal that takes into account the different points of view. In this context, I share your concern to limit the potential cost of this insurance. The project will again be discussed with stakeholders and the SPF Economy in order to arrive at a well-founded bill proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u100	Mr President, I thank the Minister. There is consultation. I hope you respect the agreement and what will come out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u101	Mrs. Cassart-Maillieux left us. His question No 2780 is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u102	Mr Minister, I am asking this question in connection with Batibouw. The law on market practices and consumer protection prohibits in principle any link of which at least one component consists of a financial service. However, there are exceptions to this. According to the law on mortgage credit of 1992, a mortgage loan may be linked to the obligation to take out fire insurance or fire insurance in the case of so-called added or attached contracts. However, the creditor must not prevent the insurance from being taken out with an insurer other than that designated by him. In practice, this does not happen, of course, because the lenders ensure that the coupling of these products is accompanied by such a reduction in the interest rate on the mortgage credit that it is self-evident that the borrower should include it. However, this is often not the most advantageous choice for consumers. In this connection, the financial players often use the limited knowledge of the consumer to charge a very high, and therefore unattractive, premium for the attached insurance in addition to the attractive low interest rate for the mortgage loan. Also, the insurance offered does not necessarily have to be the most suitable for the customer. For example, fire insurance cover is not the same in all policies and not necessarily the most suitable for the customer. The linking of the products obliges the consumer to opt for an unadjusted and sometimes expensive insurance policy in order not to lose his discount on the mortgage rate. Moreover, in practice, the customer often also has to open a current account with the same financial institution where he or she enters into the mortgage loan. The consumer cannot even cancel the linked products if the rates or conditions change in this respect, because he loses his tariff advantage on the mortgage credit. Because the aim of tying must be a win-win situation for both players, but that goal is often not achieved to the detriment of the consumer, I have the following questions for you. Are you aware that linking a mortgage loan to an insurance and a current account often leads to a non-ideal outcome for the consumer? Have you discussed this with the sector? Do you believe that a cancellation by the customer of a linked product may lead to the cancellation of the credit discount if the rates or general terms and conditions were changed unilaterally prior to the cancellation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u103	Mr Klaps, you are right: last but not least. I can also be quite clear and brief. Linking a mortgage loan to an insurance and a current account does not always offer the consumer the best outcome. This must always be considered on a case-by-case basis. I have not yet consulted the various sectors concerned. Such consultation will certainly take place in the preparation of the transposition of the European mortgage credit directive. The Directive provides for a distinction between tying and bundled sales. In the first case, the credit agreement forming part of a package is not offered separately, whereas in the case of bundled sales, the parts of the bundle can be obtained separately, albeit not necessarily under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-03-10-54-commissie-ic109x.u104	Minister, I understand that the issue will be clearly addressed in the context of the new mortgage law and that we should not start now with some bric-à-brac. However, the last question I asked is a very serious one. Perhaps we should look at what can happen with the sector. After all, we have existing contracts. Some banks have even included in their terms the need to have an active current account. Exactly what that active current account means is specified in the bank's rates sheet. In other words, that can change every day and one can really rattle the consumer. As a minister, I think you can call on the sector to do something about this in advance, pending a completely new mortgage law.
