ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, on Saturday, March 14, four train controllers working on the Tournai-Mouscron line, which you know well, were victims of a particularly violent assault at the Mouscron station. Indeed, it was in particular by means of a bicycle chain that they were beaten, for the simple reason that they had practiced their profession by verbalizing individuals travelling without their transport document. Result: injuries to varying degrees including 18 stitches for one of the victims. I imagine that I do not teach you anything by recounting these particularly scandalous facts that have led some train attendants from Tournai, Saint-Ghislain, Ath, La Louvière and Mons to disengage on Monday 16 March in order to raise awareness of the growing insecurity in which they must carry out their missions on a daily basis. Minister, what additional measures do you intend to take to further ensure the safety of train controllers and attendants and especially on the Tournai-Mouscron line? In this case, some point to SNCB's commercial policy, including the very strict imposition of a surcharge when buying a ticket on board the train. What is your view on this? Finally, in a previous reply, you also told me that at the station in Tournai, and I quote you, "disturbing individuals pose more and more problems and dispossess potential customers of the station". What actions have been taken since then to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u2	Mr President, my colleague, a Ticket Control team of three escorts and one escort, drew up an irregularity report on 14 March against two passengers on train 3827. They had no transport document and did not want to buy a ticket on board the train. When they arrived at Mouscron station, they got off the train and physically assaulted the four attendants. As regards the aggression against these train attendants at the Mouscron train station, the SNCB Joint Task Force met urgently on Monday, 16 March. Following that meeting, a number of measures were agreed upon. The CEO of SNCB sent a letter to the King's prosecutor asking him to give his full attention to the prosecution of the perpetrators. He denounced this savage aggression and expressed his unconditional support for all train attendants. The Securail teams of Mons and Tournai have since 16 March strengthened their presence on the Tournai-Mouscron line. At the request of SNCB, the Mouscron police area committed to intensifying its preventive patrols at the Mouscron station. Federal railway police agreed to send patrols from Mons to Mouscron station and the Tournai-Mouscron trains. As far as the station in Tournai is concerned, a meeting has recently taken place between the officials of the police forces, suggesting the establishment of a joint future action plan. I personally pleaded at the inauguration of the station in Tournai this 4th March, so that the authorities would pay more attention to the unemployed young people who cause nuisances at the station. The situation of insecurity at the Tournai station has improved somewhat in recent weeks thanks to more regular passages by the local police. SNCB will assess this situation throughout 2015. While the origin of the aggression is indeed commercial, SNCB considers that the new rules for regularisation of travellers in force since 1 February 2015 are not at issue because, in this case, they do not differ fundamentally from the old rules. The aim of the introduction of the tariff on board is precisely to limit conflicts or even attacks on train attendants by means of a significant simplification of commercial regulation. Indeed, before the entry into force of this tariff level, in the event of an irregularity found during the inspection of the transport documents, the passenger was liable for various additional amounts, namely EUR 3 or EUR 12.50, depending on whether he had notified the attendant at the time of boarding or whether his journey started from a station without a ticket. This procedure thus left a great deal of room for subjectivity in its application, so aggressive travellers were not offered the most advantageous fare. With the application of the fare on board, the rule is now very simple: on departure from the stations where the sale is carried out via counters and/or automatic machines, a surcharge of 7 euros is automatically counted in case of purchase on board the train. Otherwise, a finding of irregularity amounting to EUR 75 or EUR 225 in the event of forgery or forgery shall be drawn up. It is not SNCB's intention to revisit this tariff policy implemented since 1 February. Nevertheless, SNCB is well aware of a certain discrepancy between the application of the tariff on board and the possible temporary defect of a sales machine. This is why it has put in place various measures to assist the traveller in the use of automatons and to better control their proper functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the complete and precise nature of her reply, for the various actions taken, both following the aggression at Mouscron and the emergency meeting to which she referred, and for the comprehensiveness and follow-up of her reply to me on 21 January last concerning attacks and insecurity at the station in Tournai. Not only have the actions been carried out, but there will also be follow-up throughout 2015. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u4	Questions Nos 3096, 3097, 3099 and 3144 by Marco Van Hees are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u5	Mr President, Minister, there are regular questions on this subject. Your policy paper also states that greater tariff freedom will be introduced in order to achieve an optimal distribution between the revenue and expenditure of SNCB, taking into account the social dimensions. The arguments for this are well known. However, I have a few questions. What is the state of your research into different slopes in order to achieve greater tariff freedom? What foreign examples may be examined? If tariffs would vary more in relation to the time, will this be accompanied by accompanying measures, such as an action plan to encourage travel outside peak hours in administrations and businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u6	Mr President, there is no question of an increase in rates during peak hours. SNCB's modernisation plan is currently under development. As soon as it is available, you will be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u7	Madam Secretary, I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u8	We will try to contact Mrs Temmerman and in the meantime we will deal with item 15 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u9	Madam Minister, investment company Argos Soditic becomes the new majority shareholder of SNCB Logistics. In return for 20 million euros of capital, the investment company acquires two thirds of the shares, one third remains the property of SNCB. SNCB also converts a subordinated loan of EUR 25 million into capital in order to strengthen Logistics' balance sheet. A further EUR 50 million will be sought in the coming months through external funding. Firstly, what perspective does the acquisition offer in the long term? What guarantees are there to avoid a new ABX scenario in the future? Secondly, although Argos Soditic indicates that there is no time limit for the investment in SNCB Logistics, the investment company holds its interest on average in its portfolio for five years. Is an exit scenario foreseen? Finally, there would also be a possible third-party investor in the long term. What's your vision on that? Are there any discussions with other investors at the moment? Is an investment by a third partner even possible in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u10	The activities of SNCB Logistics are commercial activities carried out in a competitive environment. SNCB is not obliged to provide information on matters not covered by public service contracts. Unlike the one in which SNCB sold its stake at the time, SNCB remains a shareholder of and a partner in SNCB Logistics. SNCB will continue to contribute to the further recovery and development of SNCB Logistics. An exit scenario is not on the table. For your information, Argos has already sold to an industrial player, another investment company or worked through an initial public offering. Argos is open to conversations if investors so wish. In this connection, however, contact has already been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u11	Madam Secretary, there has indeed been a long search for a solution for Logistics. There have been several scenarios on the table. I believe that the current partnership with Argos Soditic should be given the benefit of the doubt. In the past, other cases have shown that the entry of a private partner can have a positive impact on a company. Let us hope that this will also be the case here, because rail freight is an important player in our economy and our prosperity. Finally, I would like to say that it might be good, given that private investors regularly enter and leave a project, to proactively prepare a scenario for what is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u12	Question No 3445 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u13	Mr President, Madam Secretary, I don't know if you're a cycling fanatic. I myself not so direct, but I have seen spectacular images lately due to beautiful, stormy weather where we saw cyclists flying in the canal. It was less spectacular when we saw that cyclists on a road ignored half the barriers and put their own lives, but also those of others, in danger. This problem arises from a combination of factors, such as the way Infrabel handles half barriers, but traffic legislation is also a factor. Madam Secretary, have there been any accidents in recent years to consider with half barriers? How many full and how many half barriers are there in our country? More specifically, I ask this for Flanders, because we know a huge tradition of cycling. That is why I would like to know how many accidents occur in Flanders when considering with half barriers. Are you considering replacing half the barriers with full barriers, possibly with hanging chains? Various suggestions are being made about this, so that such dangerous situations can be avoided. Does Infrabel provide for other accompanying security measures to consider with half barriers? How do you estimate the impact of half barriers on road safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, I will give you the answer to your first question on the basis of a table. On 1 January 2015, the Infrabel network counted 1 818 consideration, of which 1 284 were equipped with active signaling with half barriers. Of these, 875 were considered in Flanders. On 1 January 2015, seven of our railway networks were equipped with an operational signaling with full barriers. Infrabel plans to further reduce the number of reflections equipped with an operational signalization with full barriers in the long run. When considering an operational signal with full barriers closing the road completely, road users are at risk of being completely locked up when the road is closed, and thus an increased risk of accidents arises. Based on the analysis of the causes of road accidents in 2014, we can see that the majority is due to negligence on the part of third parties, especially by slaloming road traffic between closed barriers. Infrabel is working on a project to test, in collaboration with the road manager, a measure that makes it possible to prevent road vehicles from swinging sideways in order to slalom between the closed barriers. Furthermore, the installation of a series of flexible plastic blocks on the centre of the road over a length of about ten metres will make it physically impossible to swirl sideways and thus slalom between the closed barriers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer with the figures. It is interesting to know the number of accidents. I understand that half of the barriers have an advantage: if someone were to fall down the barriers between the full barriers, that would indeed be more dangerous. It has more to do, not so much with Infrabel and the infrastructure, but with those who are slaloming on a dangerous course. It is therefore more a question of road legislation. You mention negligence on the part of people who want to take the risk. I think it's about speed, people want to be across the street faster hoping the train isn't there yet. Controls or stricter traffic legislation would be appropriate here. Thank you for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have recently been informed of the existence, at the level of the transport sector, of a draft partnership agreement involving trade unions, employers' representatives, the Mobility FPS, the Employment FPS, the Social Security FPS, the ONSS and the ONEM. This draft partnership agreement, which aims to improve cooperation between control services with a view to improving the effectiveness of the fight against social dumping, has already received unanimous support from the social partners. My question is precisely in the context of the follow-up to the action plan to combat social fraud and social dumping initiated last year by the Secretaries of State for Mobility and the Fight against tax and social fraud. This action plan includes two flagship measures: on the one hand, an increase in the proposal for immediate collection in the event of the absence of a CMR consignment note in the truck, the said increase from EUR 55 to EUR 1,500; on the other hand, the creation of a new infringement of driving and rest periods with a fine for the person who takes a weekly rest in the cab of his vehicle, the latter accompanied by a proposal for an immediate collection of EUR 1 800 Minister, how many drivers have been verbalized in illegal cabotage and for lack of a CMR consignment note? What was the proportion of foreign drivers compared to Belgian drivers? What is the number of road drivers who have been verbalized for taking their mandatory weekly rest in their cabins? In accordance with the principle of co-responsibility, how many shippers have been verbalized for not having ascertained the existence of a consignment note? How many shippers, shippers, freight forwarders or shippers have been verbalized for failing to comply with the regulatory requirements for road cabotage? Is the Mobility FPS part of a collaborative agreement with the other FPS and their respective supervisory bodies to better understand the problem of social dumping?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u17	Mr.Foret, during the period from 1 July 2014 to 31 March 2015, forty-three road drivers were verbalised in an illegal cabotage situation, thirty-eight were for lack of a CMR consignment note (Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road) and twelve for taking their mandatory weekly rest in their cabins. On the other hand, I do not have any figures concerning the number of shippers, shippers, freight forwarders or freight forwarders who have been verbalized for failing to ascertain the existence of a consignment note or for failing to comply with the regulatory requirements for road cabotage. I give it to you, this is an area that deserves our attention. The fight against social dumping is a priority for this government, and for my part in the road transport sector, in close cooperation with my colleague, Secretary of State Bart Tommelein. We have held a successful first meeting with the social partners and will continue to carry out this consultation with the sector as a whole in order to combat this phenomenon in our country as best as possible. We are also working to have all the arguments necessary to make Belgium's voice heard at European and international level in a sector which is subject to fierce competition, sometimes extremely unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u19	Madam Secretary, on 30 March you became aware that you want to set up an institute of accidentology, and we can only welcome that. We are told that traffic experts will soon be able to examine the causes of road accidents within a legal framework. Their analyses must then add value to our road safety. For years now, the BIVV and the Federal Road Safety Commission, chaired by the BIVV, have highlighted the importance of in-depth investigation into the causes of road accidents. Depth research is therefore also one of the 20 priority recommendations for our road safety, drawn up by the States General. I have already asked a number of times here, including your predecessor, how to analyse accidents in the future, especially because they can avoid accidents. To date, there has been no legal framework allowing investigation teams to conduct independent investigations at the accident site immediately after the accident, without the possibility of obtaining data and results for judicial proceedings. This was, after all, the problem in the past; legal proceedings could be crossed if necessary. Madam Minister, can you explain more about the composition, functioning, functions and funding of the institute? Within what time can the institute launch its in-depth investigation? In the past, the BIVV coordinated some studies on road accident analyses. What role will the BIVV still play in relation to the new institute and to accidentology in general? How will the new institute function?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u20	Madam Secretary, I will confine my explanation to my questions. After all, Mrs Temmerman has explained the matter very comprehensively and well. What statute will the institute get? How will it be compiled? Next I have the following question, especially as the Flemish Government is working on the integration of all road safety activities in the Flemish House for Road Safety, including the newly transferred powers in the Department of Mobility and Public Works. How will you work with the Regions to avoid a fragmentation of powers, which could lead to a multiplication of workload?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u21	Madam President, the draft law is still in preparation. The law regulates all kinds of issues, such as access to the site of the accident, access to the elements of the judicial files, namely the minutes, the conclusion of the judicial experts or the results of any blood collections, and allows the actors who have the expertise and necessary experience to carry out studies on the causes of accidents. I am thinking here of the BIVV, as well as of certain universities or other research institutes. The possible financing of the accident studies has not yet been settled and could be done, inter alia, by the government, but not exclusively by the government. The adoption of the draft law will take some time, as consultation with the regions will be necessary, the draft Council of Ministers should be brought forward and it should then be submitted to the Council of State and the Regions for an opinion before it can be submitted to Parliament. In anticipation, I ordered the BIVV to carry out a pilot project. The main lines of this are still to be worked out. However, this should be implemented in the coming months. It goes without saying that, independently of that pilot project, the BIVV has a priori the capacity and expertise necessary to apply for authorisation for accident studies, once the law has specified all the modalities thereof.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand we'll have to wait some time for the new institute. You have not given us a timetable, but I understand from your answer that there is still a lot of consultation to be done and that funding is not yet settled. Well, that's essential. I am pleased that you acknowledge the expertise of the BIVV and I hope that in future the BIVV will be given an important place in the new institute. It is also good that it can do a number of things in the intervening period. So we are in happy expectation of both projects. I hope that we will receive even more information in committee on the pilot project referred to by the BIVV when it comes into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u23	I too would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u24	Minister, arrangements were put in place by SNCB at some stations and trains during the carnival weekends in some regions. During the Hal Carnival, Securail was present in the city station as well as a team of SPC - railway police. In addition, controls were strengthened on trains. Looking at the measures taken for the Tournai Carnival weekend, which took place at the same time as Hal's, we can be arrested. Indeed, it is only about setting up TiCo teams on the Tournai-Mons and Tournai-Ath lines. This decision to strengthen controls and neglect security has had serious consequences. Indeed, you have probably heard of the assault of four SNCB controllers on Saturday morning of the carnival by partyers returning to Mouscron. The Tournai Carnival welcomes about 10,000 people and many come by train. How can we explain the failure to strengthen security?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u25	Dear colleague, the SNCB Corporate Security Service closely monitors the organization of carnivals and other events at supra-local level that may have a direct impact on public transport. For each event, a risk analysis is conducted by the Corporate Security Service. Depending on the results of this analysis, appropriate measures are taken at train and station level in consultation with the rescue and police services. One of these measures is the organization of targeted control by Ticket Control teams. It may also be that SNCB and the police have strengthened mechanisms, as was the case in Hal, where carnival causes frequent problems. The analyses carried out in previous years show that the Tournai Carnival is not usually an event leading to an extraordinary influx in terms of travellers. We did not regret any incidents at the station or on the trains running on the line between Tournai and Mouscron. On the day of the attack, however, the team Securail de Tournai was present at the station of Tournai. Particular attention was also paid to the station's camera surveillance. At the next edition of the Tournai Carnival, SNCB will re-evaluate its system with the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u26	Madam Minister, when you say "police," you're talking about the railway police or you're talking about...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u27	There was a meeting in Tournai with the police...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u28	I'll check it out. I observed the supervision of the two carnivals, in Hal and Tournai, via notes in-house from SNCB. It is legitimate to ask questions about the great difference between the two. Honestly, I don't know Hal's carnival very well. I don't know how many people go there, but in any case, in Tournai, there are a lot of people. The Carnival of Tournai is a good child. Having said that, I believe that he can only be a good child if safety is guaranteed. With regard to the police note, I am not aware that it has been requested not to strengthen security. Anyway, I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u29	Madam President, Minister, you know that at many Belgian train stations there are bicycle points that offer a special service to cyclists taking the train. In total there are about 45 cycling points, accounting for about 60,000 cycling places. The number of users of these bicycle points is much higher. I experienced this myself as then ships of Mobility. Those bicycle points are responsible for the maintenance of the bike sheds, but commuters can also have their bike repaired or maintained there. The bicycle points carry out this assignment for SNCB, based on a service-level agreement or SLA. These cycling points are recognised local service economics projects and are reportedly currently employing around 250 employees. That is at least the information I have at my disposal, but you will correct me if that is not the case. The funding depends on different partners, namely SNCB, the federal and Flemish authorities, and the cyclist himself. In October 2016, a new SLA will apply. This agreement is currently being prepared. Already the bicycle points are pulling the alarm bell, because it is feared that this will be a new saving exercise. In the past, although the overall amount went up, the scale of the duties and tasks to be undertaken only increased. This got the bike points in trouble. The cycling points are now afraid that the new SLA will mainly be used for a saving round. I shall then come to my questions, Madam Secretary. Do you consider that the service provided by the bicycle points is one of the basic services provided by SNCB? A previous management agreement mentioned the good reception of the cyclist at the stations. Will you include that in the new basic agreement? Are you planning to expand the cycling points? Currently there are 65, but it remains limited to a number of stations. Will you set up new cycling points in this legislature? Do you intend to continue to support the good services of these bicycle points in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u30	Madam Minister, Mr Temmerman has already put forward many elements. I would just like to refer to the coalition agreement, in which co-modality is a starting point for sustainable mobility policy. If we can combine bikes and trains even more in the future, I believe that in terms of co-modality we can achieve a very strong transport chain that can effectively offer an alternative to motorised traffic. Of course, there are other elements in the government agreement, such as the roll-back of SNCB on its core tasks and the reorganisation of public spending. The question is, of course, how the various objectives can be reconciled. As a result, today there is some uncertainty about the future of cycling points. It would certainly be a pity if it were to be phased out, because cycling and train are the most complementary means of transport which, instead of being phased out, would certainly have to be supported further. The question is, of course, whether SNCB should do so, or whether other organisations should do so. However, the starting point for promoting the combination of cycling and train must be the objective. Madam Secretary, I have some specific questions. What is your vision of the future of cycling points? Is that the same vision as that of SNCB and the SNCB summit? Is it true that Mr Temmerman also mentioned that there is a fear that the cycling points will be closed? Will this service be further developed in the light of co-modality? If there are bicycle points to be closed, how many would that be? Perhaps you can also give an idea of the costs of SNCB for these bicycle points and the revenues they generate for SNCB. For example, how much does SNCB save through the bicycle points? I am thinking, for example, of the maintenance of bicycle sheds, which is done by the bicycle station staff and which should otherwise be done by SNCB? Does SNCB have an insight into the number of additional customers thanks to the services provided by the bicycle points? After all, they provide an additional attraction for SNCB and the stations. This in itself is also an added value. How does the cost of the construction and maintenance of a bicycle shed relate to the construction and maintenance of a car park? Finally, in what way does SNCB want to make it interesting for the train traveller to come by bicycle to the station, in the reasoning that train and bike are perfectly complementary means of transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u31	Madam President, I do believe that the bicycle is an essential element in the intermodality of the stations. SNCB has always provided valuable additional services via bicycle points to passengers arriving at the station by bicycle. This organisation provides added value, for example in the area of cleanliness, supervision and order in the bicycle shed. The additional services of the bicycle points, such as the repair and maintenance of bicycles, are the responsibility of the organisation that runs the bicycle points. This matter is indeed being negotiated in the preparation of the new management contract. The number of stations where additional services are requested by SNCB at bicycle points will not be increased. Currently there are 53 cycling points active in the stations. Two of them work without a service contract with SNCB. Those who work with a service contract are responsible for the supervision of the bicycle parking, cleaning, maintenance, removal of wrongly parked and left bicycles and ensuring a permanentity. In total there are 8 cycling points active in Wallonia, 4 in Brussels and 41 in Flanders. The cost to SNCB for this was EUR 1 923 000 in 2014. SNCB wants to better adapt the provision of services to the size of the stations and parking facilities and thus to meet customers' needs. In this context and in order to ensure stable growth, the service of the bicycle points is also considered on the behalf of SNCB, in accordance with the following two criteria. Firstly, where SNCB still has a potential to attract cyclists and, secondly, where there should be a higher level of service based on the number of cyclists. SNCB therefore wants to preserve the project's strengths and replace the less essential elements with a wider application of punctual actions in a large number of stations. In the major stations the service remains unchanged or is modified, while for the smaller stations the existing service provided by SNCB will be replaced by punctual actions across a wider number of stations from autumn 2016. SNCB has put the cycling points concerned at the highest of its intentions. I'll get you a copy with more detailed data.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u32	Madam Minister, I do not quite understand what action is being taken for the major stations. Could you repeat that briefly, please? Will the same things be retained for the major stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u33	In the major stations, the service remains either unchanged or modified, while for the smaller stations, the existing service provided by SNCB will be replaced by punctual actions from autumn 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u34	Madam Minister, it remains a little unclear to me when you say that the service for the major stations remains either unchanged or modified. Does this mean that there could also be a reduction for the large stations, or does an adjustment merely mean an increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u35	An adaptation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u36	So, besides? Okay. I am pleased that you recognise the need to keep the combination of bike and train, because that is absolutely an added value. I repeat, and you will forgive me, that although there are currently 15,000 bicycle parking spaces in Ghent, I sometimes miss my train because I do not find a bicycle parking space. In the future, therefore, we must continue to work on this. I understand from your answer that this will happen and that it is only very unfortunate that this is also planned for the small stations, but certainly not for the large ones. We will have to follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which brings back many elements about the search for the optimal filling of space for the bike at the stations. An additional service may also be offered to cyclists. I think it is right that we should think about this very carefully, because that could even result in an action plan for SNCB to attract more cyclists. In the end, this could mean saving, as several bicycles can be placed in a parking space for a car. This way more travellers can be reached. So it's good to bet on that. Of course, we will follow closely the concrete results of all the preparations for the new management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u38	Madam Secretary, each year in Ghent an edition of the "Gentsche gruute chaste" takes place. Let me translate: the Great Cleaning in Ghent. The idea is that neighborhood residents in their neighborhood do a whole clean-up operation. So, what's going on? As you will no doubt know, every time railroad bushes are a very popular place for slippers. Why am I quoting that here? I do that because year after year on the side of the Dampoort, one of the two major stations in Ghent, the neighborhood residents hit a very large sleek dump. In the past, especially before 2014, that dump was cleaned up pretty quickly. After 2014, following the reorganisation of SNCB, this proved very difficult to achieve. This is mainly because SNCB and Infrabel are constantly discussing the question of who is responsible for clearing up the spill. That means that the sluice deposit stays in place and grows year after year. It's almost a complete dump already. Madam Secretary, after a year of discussion, has it finally been decided who is responsible for the maintenance of the rail link at the Ghent-Dampoort station? What is the policy of SNCB and Infrabel on the clearance of landfills? When will the cleanup finally happen? In particular, what preventive measures can and will be taken by SNCB and/or Infrabel, to reduce spill-over to rail transport in general and in Ghent-Dampoort? You will not blame me for taking the Dampoort as an example. After all, I am convinced that the site is exemplary for many other places in Belgium, where the railway tunnels are flooded.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u39	The railway station at Gent-Dampoort is partly owned by SNCB and partly owned by Infrabel. Both companies are therefore responsible for maintenance. A specialist company is called upon to dispose of the waste in question. Any physical barriers are placed to discourage slippers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u40	Madam Secretary, if you'll excuse me, the spill is not being cleared up. I went to check it out recently. The spill is still there, and that has been for almost a year now. The fact that part of SNCB and part of Infrabel are competent is the answer that is always given to local residents. However, I would like to ask you, as the competent minister, to simply instruct you to clean up the spill-over and share the costs. I hope I will not have to come to you in 2016 on the occasion of the new big chaste in Ghent with the same demand and will not have to tell you that the sluice deposit has grown with so many cubic metres, because it is simply not cleaned up. I really hope that you will now decide that the landfill will be cleaned up and that, since both companies are responsible, the invoice will simply be shared and paid by both institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u41	I give you the elements that are provided to me by both companies. I will, of course, relay what you're telling me today. If the cleaning has not been done, I will give instructions to ensure that the cleaning is done properly. Cleanliness and safety are key priorities within SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u42	It's kind of like that in a lot of places. In Haren, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u43	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u44	Mrs Temmerman, Mr Geerts agrees that you should now ask your question No 3632.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, people who want to know after a night out or after a restaurant visit whether they have exceeded the legal alcohol limit can check this using electronic alcohol testers that can be used several times. These devices are freely available on the market. However, the BIVV now warns about its use. Research carried out by the BIVV shows that the vast majority of devices are inaccurate and unreliable. Eighteen out of 24 were found to be inaccurate or insufficient. That is a very large number, especially if we count on people using them to know if they can safely get on the track. Madam Secretary, what follow-up will you take to the investigation of the BIVV? Shouldn't alcohol testers placed on the market in Belgium be homologized beforehand, as opposed to alcohol testers used by the police? There is therefore no certainty as to the accuracy of those devices for private use. Can we take the necessary steps to ensure that these electronic alcohol testers are also Homologized before they are freely available on the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u46	Madam President, Mrs Temmerman, at the moment I cannot draw a definitive conclusion from the results of the investigation, but I will keep you informed of what I intend to do about it. There is an international standard for private electronic alcohol testers, but it is not mandatory for alcohol testers placed on the market. The consumer has every interest in buying an alcohol tester bearing the approval mark of the international standard. The first conclusion that we can draw from the research is that when one has drunk, one cannot rely on the results of the alcohol testers. They can only give an indication of the alcohol level. If one wants to use a reliable and accurate alcohol tester, one must buy a device that offers the same guarantees as those used by the police. These devices are Homologised by an official authority and should also be calibrated periodically. Of course, they're much more expensive. The regular alcohol testers are freely available on the market, also via the Internet. It is therefore difficult to verify the obligation to sell and use only groomed devices for private use. This could be a possible think path. However, I can never repeat it enough: drinking and driving do not go together.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u47	I fully agree with the latter, Madam Secretary. However, when appliances are placed on the market, I think that is something that I would also like to point out from your answer, Mr President-in-Office, that we must ensure that the reliability is as high as possible. So I'd be happy to await your examination of those devices. If there are devices on the market that are not reliable, I think we should be able to take them out of the market, because drinking and driving do not go together. If people rely on unreliable devices, then we still have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u48	Madam Minister, I had already called you on 28 January about this problem with the overflight of the Walloon Brabant. You told me you were going to look at the solutions suggested by different people, including the ASBL "Piste 01, that's enough!" I have learned from the press that you have taken two measures proposed by André Flahaut to reduce noise nuisances. The first step is to ensure that aircraft no longer land in landings, but in slow descent - thus reducing noise nuisances. The second measure provides for the establishment of the NADP procedure1. This procedure provides for aircraft to increase in altitude faster - which also reduces noise nuisances. Minister, can you tell us when these two measures will be implemented? And what are the expected effects in terms of reducing noise pollution? The announcement of these two measures was made on the day of your trip to Waterloo. You have met with different associations and the population. Can you give us a short debriefing of this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u49	Both measures will be published in the IPA on 14 May for entry into force on 25 June. CDO applications designed to conduct a descent on a continuous vertical profile with minimum engine power can be applied both day and night. We estimate an average gain of 2 audible decibels for a medium-mail aircraft and 3 audible decibels for a long-mail aircraft. Finally, they lead to reductions in kerosene and CO2. The NADP1 procedure aims to quickly gain altitude in order to reduce noise in the direct vicinity of the airport. We estimate a reduction of the order of 3 to 8 decibels depending on the type of device. With NADP1, fuel consumption in the initial climb phase would be slightly increased, in the order of 3%. The lady of Waterloo has lived in this house for many years and she aspires – one can understand – to minimal noise discomfort. The CDO procedures should relieve this lady.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u51	Madam Minister, we recently read in the newspaper about the financial results of Infrabel that the company managed to close the account in balance. A comment on Infrabel's positive news was the words of the CFO, Mr Smeets. According to him, Infrabel will have to put a brake on additional expenditure because of the savings programme. Nor will the outgoing staff be replaced. In his view, a balance of results in the coming years will not be easy at all. If that is achieved, it will be achieved by a reduction in investment. Madam Secretary, what external expenditure will be cut? What planned investments will have to pass through the required savings? What investment budget for 2015 is foreseen in a very concrete way? What is the impact on staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u52	The investments for 2015 for infrastructure works carried out by contractors on behalf of Infrabel will mainly be cut. They relate to the following elements: the postponement of renewal works for the side-rail infrastructure and the less loaded lines of the rail network; the postponement of certain works originally planned to renew the overhead lines; the distribution of certain works relating to the extension of capacity to the GEN and to the modernisation works on the Brussels-Luxembourg axis; the delay of ongoing work and/or the delay of the start of new works for the reception of passengers. Infrabel's investment budget for 2015 amounts to EUR 962 million, but as I have always said, it is a provisional budget. The number of full-time equivalents budgeted on 31 December 2015 is 388 units below the actual number of units on 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your transparent reply. However, I would like to add a few more elements. Firstly, it can be said that a number of investments can be postponed without too much impact. Delaying the renewal of overhead lines, for example, is less innocent than it seems. One of your predecessors, Mr De Croo, did so once. We've seen what that led to on the network. Then there is the delay of the Gene. For the sake of economic development and given the number of stations around GEN and the mobility button, I think this is a regrettable decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, we have read that SNCB has 40% in Thalys and the French SNCF 60%. This used to be a collaboration between the Belgian, French, German and Dutch railways. As a result of the reform, Thalys will employ 150 employees of SNCB, while maintaining their status. SNCB will also provide its workshop in Vorst for the maintenance of the trains. In return, SNCB will receive an annual fee of EUR 75 million. Self-employment means that SNCB no longer has direct costs, but also no direct revenue. A dividend may be paid, but this still needs to be negotiated further. My very specific questions are as follows. What is the financial impact for SNCB? How are the negotiations on the distribution of a dividend going? Who decides which dividends are paid? What is the concrete contribution of SNCF? At Thalys, the workforce would be increased from 250 to 550, including the 150 seconded from SNCB. How will the recruitment of other staff proceed? A number of SNCB staff shall be seconded, while maintaining their status. Are the full wage costs transferred to Thalys or do some of the social liabilities remain borne by SNCB? How is the annual fee of EUR 75 million from Thalys to SNCB calculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u55	Madam President, Mr Geerts, in reply to your question, I would like to express the position of SNCB in this matter, as she has told me. Thalys carries out commercial activities in a competitive environment. The figures relating to these activities and their impact on SNCB are confidential. SNCB is not obliged to provide data that does not relate to its public service mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u56	Madam President, Minister, this is a legally correct answer. The only thing that is public is the impact on the staff costs of posted workers. I will put this question in writing because they retain their state statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u57	Mr Geerts, Mr Geerts, Mr Geerts, Mr Geerts, Mr Geerts, Van Hecke is not here this afternoon in Parliament. His question No 3589 is attached to your question No 3611. Do you agree to postpone your question or do you decide to ask it anyway? You decide to postpone it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u58	Madam Minister, together with SNCB and Infrabel, you are working on a modernisation plan for the railway companies; you have referred to it several times. The intention was to complete that plan in spring 2015. In the meantime, we're past the Easter recess. If I am not mistaken, the talks are still in progress. In any case, it does not appear that a concrete solution or a concrete plan is in place. Firstly, what is the state of play in the discussions on the modernisation plan? Secondly, what is the reason for the delay? We have been waiting for some time now. Thirdly, by when can we finally expect the plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u59	Madam Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Raskin's question. How will the announced amount of €2.1 billion of savings be implemented effectively? I have just heard something about overhead lines and the GEN in my previous question. Quite specifically, when will the modernisation plan be proposed in Parliament? What is the reason for the delay today?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u60	Madam Minister, I agree with the other questioners and I would like to ask another question. Can you give us some guidelines today on the modernisation plan, which was announced by the current period?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u61	The modernisation plans of SNCB and Infrabel are in preparation. In the coming weeks, information will be given to Parliament. The aim of these plans is to enable both public undertakings to increase the level of their industrial performance far beyond the level of previous years. They also aim to free up a maximum of funds for investment through a significant reduction in operational costs, while safeguarding a high-quality rail supply. I would like to add – I will say here, if I may, in French – that this is a very large issue, which you will agree with. No delay is to be regretted. But there is a lot of consultation, a lot of benchmarks. For a case as important as the one in question, it is, in my view, better to take more time than to present a file that is ill-tangled.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The fact that such a modernisation plan is in preparation is not news. I'm trying to look at the bright side. We'll be getting intel in a few weeks, but when is that? I'm staying a little hungry. I think it's about time. In any case, I am pleased to hear that the exercise should leave maximum room for investment and that, above all, operational costs should be saved. So I look forward to your plan. It is an important step towards the new investment plan and the management contract. You are effectively facing a heavy task: reform and save. You will receive my support if you do not opt for the easy way of saving on investment, but rather for the way of saving on the exploitation side. That is where the centre of gravity must be. I look forward to your file in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with a number of points from Mr Raskin's reply, with a number of others less. However, this will be brought up during the substantive debate. It is certainly important that the exercise is made and that it is done thoroughly. For me, it is absolutely not important whether the plan is coming up now or two weeks or two months later. If the result is fair and if it can be discussed further, then it does not matter to me at all if we have to wait a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u64	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question concerns the decreasing number of cases of aggression against SNCB staff. The number of cases of verbal and physical aggression against SNCB personnel decreased by 7% in 2014. That's good news. In nominal figures, there were still 468 physical and 768 verbal aggressions, two thirds of which were the result of a discussion on transport tickets. We have talked about the new penalty system and the EUR 7 on-board rate in this committee on a number of occasions, perhaps to some extent. The justification at the time was that the number of cases of aggression would be reduced, although I am still not convinced of that. Other, common reasons of aggression were the result of disputes in the GDPR departure procedure. The Committee on Railway Safety has analysed this procedure and a solution would be sought. It does not appear to be there yet, which sometimes leads to frustration among travellers. A third point is that a number of train drivers say that the figures need to be balanced, because there has been a certain amount of fatigue in reporting, especially with regard to verbal aggression. So sometimes people don't bother to indicate aggression anymore. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What were the five most common reasons of aggression against SNCB staff in 2014? Two thirds of the cases of aggression were the result of a discussion on the ticket. Does SNCB establish a difference between the number of cases of aggression in February-March 2014 and February-March 2015, i.e. the period during which the on-board tariff was introduced? Is there a difference between the number of train passes sold or fill-in cards before and after the introduction of the on-board fare? As regards the GDPR departure procedure, what is the state of implementation of a new procedure in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u66	Madam President, Mr Geerts, SNCB has given me the figures you are asking for and I will give them to you. In any case, SNCB sees little difference in the number of cases of aggression in 2014 and 2015. You also asked about the difference in the number of train passes sold and fill-in cards before and after the introduction of the new on-board fare. In February and March 2014, 132 357 and 150 910 were sold respectively. In February and March 2015, there were 125 553 and 137 910 respectively. As regards the new departure procedure, it is currently being developed. In this procedure, the train will leave with all the doors closed. This procedure will be rolled out from mid-2017 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u67	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I will continue to study the figures. I notice that there are fluctuations from one month to the next, but that can be purely coincidental. I will certainly come back to this by written means, in order to make a comparison over a slightly longer period.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u68	Minister, since the beginning of the 2000s, the European Union has set itself the objective of creating a trans-European positioning and navigation network. Europe is currently developing a state-of-the-art global satellite navigation system, the Galileo project. Galileo will consist of thirty satellites in orbit, which will provide positioning information with unparalleled accuracy and reliability. This project will improve Europe's technological independence, particularly vis-à-vis the well-known US GPS system. In addition, the development of Galileo will enable Europe to fully exploit all the multiple advantages of satellite navigation and the almost infinite potential of applications in sectors as diverse as transport, energy, telecommunications, precision agriculture and the environment. A huge potential for growth with, at the key, new opportunities for European industry and thousands of jobs created, especially in SMEs. In addition to these advantages for the European Union and its various countries, Galileo could also have more direct consequences for Belgium. Indeed, our country has applied to host a new logistics centre as part of Galileo's activities. I think Belgium has proposed the Transinne site. Madam Minister, can you tell us what is the status of the call for interest procedure launched by the European Commission in this context? To your knowledge, have any other projects been returned? Do you know when to drop the decision and have you already assessed the benefits for Belgium in case of a favourable answer for this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u69	The call for interest procedure was launched by the European Commission in December 2014. Belgium's bid to install the Galileo Integrated Logistics Support Centre at the Galaxy Business Park in Transinne, province of Luxembourg, was sent on 12 March to the European Commission responsible for the internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and SMEs. This file falls within the jurisdiction of my department. At this stage, the number of competing countries has not been communicated, but we are confident that the competition will be tough. According to the indicative schedule transmitted by the Commission, the evaluation of applications is scheduled to be completed by August 2015. The Commission will announce the practical arrangements for selection in the coming weeks. The final choice will be made in several stages. The defence of the Belgian application to the European authorities is coordinated within the interdepartmental coordination group Galileo. In the event that the Belgian project is retained, this would allow the Galaxia Park, which currently comprises seven space companies, to move to a larger size. This would be an activity in synergy with the ESA centre in Redu. Belgium already has a great deal of expertise in these activities, and I will certainly make this point with the European bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-04-22-54-commissie-ic144x.u70	I don't doubt it. Thank you very much, Minister.
