ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have listened to you with great interest. Indeed, given the seriousness of the situation, there are issues that can be considered to be less urgent. Nevertheless, the appointment process in the senior public service is a sensitive and important thing. The question is a little old. I am referring to an article in the Tijd on September 11, 2015, which referred to internal negotiations with the coalition parties that you are leading, with a view to a comprehensive agreement on the allocation of different mandates in the federal public service. These include the Director General of Taxation and the Director General of Information and Communication Technologies. These two functions have not been filled for many months. The lack of appointment and the difficulty of reaching agreement within the government block the progress of some files, beyond asking questions about the objectivity of the choices that would be made. Prime Minister, can we take stock of the main mandates currently to be filled in the federal public administration or in federal public enterprises that are under discussion in your government? Do you confirm this idea of a comprehensive agreement covering several positions in the management bodies of the federal government or public enterprises? Was there any such negotiation? What are the criteria used to assign these mandates? Is it a question of competence or political affiliation? For these mandates, is an assessment planned and/or is there an intervention by the Selor? Timelines are also useful, on the understanding that since the filing of my question, I have no doubt that certain situations have been unblocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u2	Mr President, for the sake of understanding, a distinction must be made between two situations: on the one hand, vacancies in federal public services and on the other hand, the appointment on the boards of directors of public undertakings or any other body in which the government sends representatives. For the first point, the rules are clear, I imagine you know them as well as I do, it is the Selor who is in charge of the procedures. I have just mentioned this in the previous debate, the government agreement provides for an evaluation and possible reform of the Selor procedures. We want to make them faster and more consistent with the objectives of administrative reforms. We wish to do so by guaranteeing the objectivity of the compositions of the juries. This point seems very important to us. Moreover, for these functions in the administrations, the government agreement envisages a reflection on the system of mandates. This reflection should cover both the method of selecting the directors of the administrations which could consist, for example, of the composition of a pool of certified candidates in which ministers could choose at the time of their entry into office. So we are talking about a reform that would have effects for the future and not necessarily in the short term. It would also be a question of defining a dynamic career instead of a static career, as is to some extent the case today. Finally, we may wish to reflect on a budgetaryly neutral system of variable remuneration. So here's the CPS component, governments, public service officers. The rules are completely clear. There is therefore objectivity and procedures by the Selor which, as has been said, can sometimes be too long and which we would like to reform. I come to the boards of directors of public companies. The 1991 law reforming certain public enterprises provides for the modalities and duration of the terms of office. Appointments generally take place in a timely manner and at varying time intervals. We don't have a general renewal at the same time. It is necessary to see, on a case-by-case basis, what time intervals are planned. You see, therefore, that these are objective criteria that are determined for recruitment into FPS. As far as boards of directors are concerned, it is the government that appoints its representatives, which I believe is entirely logical. To the best of my knowledge, the next decisions on boards of directors are directed to the AFCN, ONDRAF and SFPI. In any case, for these bodies, decisions will have to be taken in the short term. There is no general state of affairs in the Chancellery in relation to this. It is department by department that forecasts are identified in terms of renewal of mandates or functions. Therefore, in the context of parliamentary work, do not hesitate to contact my colleagues to receive the relevant information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u3	Prime Minister, I will not hesitate, rest assured. I share your distinction between the designations of directors in various organizations such as those you cited and the designations of senior officials. As far as boards of directors are concerned, it is a prerogative of the government. Nevertheless, the quality of the designated persons is important. I have no doubt that you will be attentive to it. When it comes to the appointment of senior officials, you assert a concern for objectivity on the part of the government. I can tell you that we will pay particular attention to what is being done. Several of the information that circulates is precisely questioning this objectivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u5	I have already asked the Minister of Finance about various mandates within the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u6	Which ones? That would be interesting for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u7	Yes, I mentioned them in my question, Prime Minister. This is the position of Deputy Head of Taxation, the Director General Information and Communication Technology. And I have put other written questions to the Minister of Finance on this matter. My role is to ensure that your assertions of objectivity – and objectivity is difficult to establish, I agree – are respected in practice. As for your forward-looking leads on the faster assessment, on a more systematic mandate system, on a pool from which to draw, I can follow you, Prime Minister. This is what has been implemented, perhaps too embryonic at the level of the Walloon Region with the school of administration, now called into question by the new majority. I think we need to move in that direction towards modernization of the federal public service. The quality criteria for the persons designated must be first. We pay particular attention to the objectivity of recruitment. And so much the better if you put us in default in relation to the fears I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 6371 by Mr Luykx, since he is in Paris with the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, our Constitution states in Article 10 that only Belgians can be appointed in civil and military ministries as statutory officials. In Flanders, a discussion has been going on for a long time to proceed to the appointment of non-Belgen in the Flemish civil service. The same discussion has been taking place on the federal level for years. A discussion has recently taken place in the Flemish Parliament, and Mrs Homans said that she sent you a letter in April of this year. It called for an amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution, so that non-Belgen can now also be admitted to public office. I would have liked to have heard from you what your reaction was to Mrs. Homans. When did you respond? What was your reaction? In Brussels and Wallonia, it would already be possible to appoint non-Belgen statutory in an administration. Why is that? What way have they found to do that without a constitutional change? I have already tabled a legislative proposal in the previous legislature in order to be able to make an effective adjustment to the Constitution, so that non-Belgen can also be admitted to public office. Of course, I have made an exception in my proposal for functions of authority, just think of soldiers and police officers. For all other jobs, from receptionist about cleaning wife to administrative servant, I find it absolutely appropriate to open them to non-calls as well. At the moment it is possible for Europeans, but not yet for third-country nationals. May I have your response to the initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u10	Mrs Lanjri, I have read the letter from the Flemish Deputy Prime Minister and the Flemish Minister of the Interior very carefully. Firstly, the federal government is obviously sensitive to the issue of access to the labour market for foreigners. The coalition agreement provides for the following. I quote. The federal government will respect and encourage diversity in its own organisation and services and will set a quantified target for the federal government through the method of socio-economic monitoring coordinated by the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation." That is our ambition. Secondly, as regards the federal public office, contractual officials are not required to be nationals. For statutory officials, the nationality requirement, which has been extended to citizens of the European Union and Switzerland, applies. The Minister of Civil Service is therefore also currently examining what measures and initiatives can be taken in this context. I am prepared to consult with the Länder in order to provide a coherent response. Moreover, your question concerns a very complex and legal-technical discussion. In examining, for example, the texts adopted by Parliaments of the Walloon Region and of the French Community, we note that some provisions can be interpreted broadly, which represents a significant risk of legal uncertainty. Indeed, the Decree of 15 March 2012 allows non-Belgens from outside the European Union to engage in a statutory relationship within the Walloon government, with the exception of functions involving direct or indirect participation in the exercise of public authority or aimed at protecting the general interests of the State or other public bodies. The decree does not specify which functions are specifically reserved for Belgians. The government leaves it to every administration to decide. That provision was strongly criticised by the Council of State. Finally, with regard to the proposed revision of the Constitution, the majority and the Chamber still have to give their opinion. If requested, it is also possible to hear the ministers concerned in the context of the discussions that would take place. I would like to add that I am willing to set up a working group within the framework of the Consultation Committee to try to create a coherent vision and do everything possible to avoid differences of interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. I believe that there is an urgent need for a clear line to be drawn on access to public office. In the case of CD&V, we believe that public office should also be open to people of non-Belgian origin, but that we should be able to make an exception for direct and indirect authority functions. That's why we filed that bill. If that bill can be adopted or further examined, we can also address the problems in the other regions. I note that there are already problems in the Walloon Region with the interpretation of its decree. I therefore believe that it would be wiser to make clear changes to the Constitution at national level, at federal level, so that the rules in all regions are interpreted in the same way. In this way, we also respond to the Flemish Government's question. Prime Minister, I think it is a good idea that you should put the matter before the Conciliation Committee. There you can find out how the various regions regulate access to public office. It doesn't matter to me whether it's a bill or a change of law, for me, an arrangement can also be implemented by the government as long as it's resolved. There must be an adaptation of the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u12	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, two of your ministers have spoken differently on this issue. At the beginning of the legislature, the government announced the establishment of a legal framework whereby persons with disabilities will be able or will have to return to work partially with the permission of a doctor who advises the mutual fund. This is a measure that we have called into question. According to the new policy note of the Minister of Employment and his statements to the press, the future royal decree will be based on the principle of voluntary service without obligation or sanction. This development seems to me to be positive. On the other hand, the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Mrs De Block, tempera. According to her, I quote her statement to the Belga Agency, "the discussions are still ongoing". It considers it premature to mention a development in the case. From then on, I address the referee. Prime Minister, has an agreement been reached within the government on this issue? What is he? Who's telling the truth? The Minister of Employment or the Minister of Social Affairs? What is the NTC's opinion on the government's plans in this area? How will this be taken into account? Will this system be mandatory or optional? What is the government's deadline on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u13	Mr Gilkinet, as you have seen, the press reported in mid-November on an outline of a government project to reintegrate workers with disabilities into the labour market. This included flexibility in terms of time and accountability. The government agreement provides that no later than three months after the start of the incapacity for work, a rehabilitation plan will be drawn up. When deemed necessary, a temporary reintegration route will also be developed. Priority attention will be given to the remaining opportunities in the labour market. The approach must be multidisciplinary, with the firm participation of all actors. The Government will examine how a system of accountability of stakeholders can be put in place. It is in no way put forward in the policy notes that the reintegration project would move away from the government agreement. The general policy note of the Minister of Employment states that "these proposals must be in line with NTC Opinion No. 1923". It is an opinion that deals with the platform for consultation between actors involved in the process of returning to voluntary work of people with a health problem. This concordance must be agreed on the multidisciplinary approach, which includes the support of the various stakeholders, such as internal and external prevention and protection services at work, on the target group more comprehensive than the only workers bound by a contract of employment or on the resumption of a quality job which must be adapted to the remaining capacities and possibilities of the worker, all of which are highlighted in this opinion. This concordance does not call into question the fact that the government is examining whether an accountability system can be put in place in accordance with the government agreement. I would also like to point out that the occupational reintegration plan is one of the points for which the Group of Ten and the Government are negotiating together, in order to reach a comprehensive agreement as we agreed in Kern on 21 September. It is also planned that the social partners will submit their proposals to the government before the end of November on the various subjects. We are at a time when work is continuing in the relevant ministerial offices. Work continues with the social partners. Every effort is made to communicate the decisions taken on the subject after the end of November. I appreciate you recognizing my role as prime minister. It touches me! I have to tell you that in order to arbitrate, I still need additional information, which should be possible in the coming days so that decisions can be communicated before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u14	Mr. "the referee", if I decode correctly, you rather take the party – if I may say so – of Mrs. De Block. Maybe I'm wrong in my analysis, but it's still mine. You can't take it away from me. The Minister of Employment had made quite voluntaristic remarks concerning the easing of a measure which seems to me unnecessarily vexatious, based on a fantasy since the return to employment is quite natural for those who can. For those who cannot, there is a system of social security and solidarity that allows them to continue living in decent conditions. However, you have opened a door to the outcome of social dialogue and discussions in the Group of Ten. It is to be hoped that common sense will emerge from social consultation and that, in the end, we will have just lost a lot of time and energy to contest something that, in my opinion, was not a good idea. That the sick workers who can return to work do so is an excellent thing. That those who were actually ill should be respected in their condition and not unnecessarily prosecuted, which was apparent from the discussions with Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u15	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mr Hedebouw's 7509 and 7513 have been withdrawn. Mr Crusnière is currently with the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Paris, so he can answer his question. 7629 aren't setting up right now. That's why I have the honour to ask the last two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u16	Prime Minister, this question concerns the law of 1 July 2011, in which Belgium transposed a European directive of 2008 to identify and better protect critical infrastructures. These measures apply primarily to companies from four designated sectors, namely energy, transport, finance and public electronic communications. It is always up to the competent ministers to identify the companies covered by that law. This is also done in consultation with the general management of the Crisis Centre of the FPS Interior. This general management also plays an important role in identifying the European critical infrastructure. The general management would also make external protection measures for the designated critical infrastructure based on the threat analysis of OCAD. Former parliamentary questions on this subject also show that the Cybersecurity Centre has identified three target groups. You referred to it just now. One target group is the critical vital sectors, which include the critical infrastructure and other elements that still need to be identified. The CCB (Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium) will also work on an early warning system, which will continuously inform vital sectors of threats, vulnerabilities and incidents. There will be guidelines, advice and reliable diagnoses with a response to incidents. Mr Prime Minister, I have three questions about this. Firstly, is it necessary to amend the law of 1 July 2011 so that the Cybersecurity Centre could exercise the protection for the vital sectors? If so, which articles are involved and which lines of action do you see in them? What role do you see for the OCAD and the general management of the Crisis Centre? Secondly, has the Cybersecurity Centre already defined the other elements that belong to the vital sectors but are not included within the critical infrastructure? If so, can you provide more information? What elements are these? Have there been any discussions on this between the CCB and the companies and sectors? Thirdly, which sectors are already using the early warning system? Are there any results of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u17	Mr President, the directive of 8 December 2008 mainly concerned the identification and designation of European critical infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection. According to the transposition of the directive, Belgian law identifies four sectors, as you have said, which are considered vital, namely energy, transport, finance and electronic communications, without concentrating on one type of threat. From the cyber-threat point of view and on top of the above points, the Cybersecurity Centre in Belgium currently formulates the advice that other nerve centres, including governments, could also be considered vital. This also applies, for example, to the public health sector. In any case, we know that all these sectors could be potential targets. According to the CCB, other vital sectors could be identified if we were inspired by what our European neighbours have identified as vital sectors. For example, the CCB can initiate discussions at operational level and propose to the departments and Cabinets concerned to identify the different vital sectors that will be added to the critical infrastructure. The CCB will begin to do so as soon as it reaches its development phase. That is to say from April 2016. In anticipation, the CCB already has the necessary prior contacts with the crisis centre and the Cyber Security Coalition, which unites the private sector, the public sector and the academic sector. It is only in the light of this analysis that it may be possible to determine whether, and in what way, Belgian legislation should be amended. With regard to the crisis centre and the OCAD, their respective roles remain unchanged. The crisis centre proposes the external protection measures for critical infrastructures and the OCAD is responsible for analysing the threat. Finally, in relation to the early warning system, a distinction should be made between the early warning system of the crisis centre and the early warning system which the CCB intends to set up. On the one hand, the early warning system of the crisis centre was established through a protocol agreement in cooperation with the VBO. That EES is limited to the members of the VBO and concerns several critical sectors laid down in the Act of 1 July 2011. On the other hand, with regard to the cyber threat referred to by the CCB in its policy plan, the EES is focused exclusively on cyber incidents for critical infrastructures. The EES is not yet operational, but its conceptualisation is planned in the coming months. For the timing one speaks of March 2016, but I am cautious.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, I can understand your caution, especially when you say that the centre will become operational somewhat slower than we had hoped or expected. I also understand very well that the inspiration of the neighbouring countries can guide this. In August I visited the international center for cyber security in The Hague, the Netherlands. There I saw very good examples that can be inspiring. I understand that the CCB visited the same centre fourteen days after my visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u19	Prime Minister, this question is a follow-up to my previous but very specific question concerning threats and incidents. The British Government has recently shown particular concern about possible cyber attacks on vital infrastructure by Daesh..................................................................................................... British Minister George Osborne, whom I met myself in October, stated that as much attack as possible by IS would not only cause economic damage but could also cost human lives. Islamic State currently mainly uses the Internet as a propaganda channel, with videos on YouTube to recruit Syrian fighters and encourage people to extremism and hatred. At present, IS does not yet work with cyber attacks, but it is assumed that there is a reasonable chance of doing so and that their regular army might also contain a cyber component in so far as it is regular. That is why the British Government has already said that it wants to free up the funds to arm itself against this. This is not a new fact. In the past, the U.S. government warned against terrorist attacks over the Internet on critical and vital infrastructure, especially for attacks on medical equipment. For the time being, fortunately, we have been spared from this, but I still have the following questions. How realistic are cyber attacks on critical infrastructure in Belgium? How much could the economic damage be? What are the odds of this? What measures has the government already taken to combat such a danger? What budgets were made available for this? What attacks on critical infrastructure have already occurred on the territory of Belgium? What were the targets? Have any incidents been thwarted? I hope so, too, there were a lot of them. How is contact between the various departments, the Cybersecurity Centre, the VSSE (Security of the State/Sécurité de l'état), the general management and the OCAD, for protecting critical infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u20	Mr President, the cyber threat against critical infrastructure is real. The cyber attacks have so far been mostly directed against economic and industrial potential, such as theft of information and economic espionage. However, cyber attacks against specific critical infrastructures can, of course, also cause material damage in the worst cases. There's a chance. In that case, there is talk of cyberterrorism. Under the current government, the CCB started its activities in August 2015. The CCB shall, inter alia, be responsible for ensuring crisis management in the event of cyber incidents, in cooperation with the Government's coordination and crisis centre. Several working meetings are held with the actors involved in the management and responsibilities in the event of cyber incidents affecting them. The CCB is currently developing an emergency plan, including the crisis centre and operational services responsible for cyber security. For 2016 there is a budget of 7 million euros on the interdepartmental commission for cybersecurity projects. The attack on Belgacom in 2012 can be considered the first major file of an attack on a critical infrastructure. The file related to the attack on the FPS Foreign Affairs is another example. The FCCU or Federal Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police continue to handle various files related to cyber attacks in preliminary investigation or investigation. The Computer Emergency Response Team maintains general statistics available to the public via the website. It is difficult to give a precise indication of the number of attacks that have been foiled. Operational services are often reactive and less preventive. As I said, these are economic targets at the moment. Nevertheless, there are techniques to also cause material damage. Since its creation, the CCB has established contacts between the authorities mentioned in your question, namely the CCB, the VSSE, the ADCC (General Directorate for Crisis Centre) and the OCAD. There have also been meetings with state security services and the critical infrastructure crisis centre. A similar meeting with the OCAD will be organised. Currently, the CCB is actively working with the Crisis Centre to establish a procedure for managing national cyber incidents and cyber crises. At the same time, a cyber emergency plan is drawn up by the same actors. Finally, the CCB also monitored the preparation of a guide with instructions in the event of a DDoS attack (Destributed denial-of-service) intended for the members of BELNIS and the advisors on information security. The CCB has also contributed to a guide on the management of cyber incidents in the context of the cybersecurity coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-11-24-54-commissie-ic274x.u21	Mr Prime Minister, believe me freely, it is my conviction that the government is certainly taking the right measures, at least with far greater leaps than it has been in the past. Minister Jambon has announced an Internet Trecherche unit, which should play a crucial role in the fight against all kinds of illegal cases, including, for example, the darknet. We also know that terrorist organisations do not sit still and are involved in their time and therefore also engage IT people and IT knowledge. You said yourself that there is a real danger that the critical infrastructure will become a target. I refer to a specialist, in particular Pim Volkers of Fox-IT, who states that it cannot be ruled out that ISIS will use mercenaries to carry out such matters. By the way, there is an article on bright.nl to point out the more dangerous the hackers of ISIS, of Daesh, can be. I hope that the government will continue to act proactively and that the resources released for the fight against terrorism will also go to the cyber fight, not only to the fight against propaganda but also to the security of our critical infrastructure.
