ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u1	Madam Minister, this year's RIZIV figures show that one in five doctors would not follow the tariff agreements. The number is slightly lower than in previous years, but it remains a high figure. It does not say anything about the number of specialists following the rates; they can sometimes be searched with a magnifying glass. In addition, some specialists, such as gynecologists and child psychologists, have unfortunately 'deconventional' themselves, thereby de facto avoiding negotiated tariffs. In an earlier reply in the committee, you stated that doctors cannot be obliged to follow the guide rates and that patients should know for themselves whether their care provider is in agreement or not. If conventional doctors do not comply with the tariff agreements, it becomes difficult for a patient to know what to do and he is the victim of the situation. Health insurance informed that 50% of the gynecologists, 67 percent of the dermatologists, 58 percent of the ophthalmologists and 60% of the plastic surgeons charge at least half more than the rates agreed with the sickness funds. The tariff agreement will only apply until the end of 2015 and will therefore soon have to be renegotiated for the coming years. Madam Minister, first of all, how do you intend to ensure greater tariff security for medical practitioners and specialists in the context of the agreement, and this is the case for a longer period than is the case today? Secondly, convening doctors are expected to follow the tariff agreements as much as possible. How is it checked whether they are doing so effectively? What are the sanctions for non-compliance? Thirdly, in which specializations do you count the most deconventional doctors? How do you intend to reverse that trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u2	Mrs Detiège, the partners in the compulsory medical care insurance have long been made aware of the problem of the low level of convention for certain categories of medical specialists. The reasons cited are often underrated by the official rate and the need to renew the fast-aging technological medical equipment. Taking note of this state of affairs, the partners of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds had already expressed the wish to discuss this in the 2011 National Agreement. Since then, the RIZIV has therefore examined a specific working group on the general problem of transparency and information obligations vis-à-vis patients. In accordance with point 5.2 of the national agreement, the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds wished to be involved in the practical adaptation of the so-called Transparency Act, which was postponed until 1 July. In the meantime, that has happened. Paragraph 6 of the national agreement deals with the promotion of convention and social status. For example, an increase in the practical allowance of EUR 500 per year is provided for the general practitioners who fully accede to the agreement. It is therefore proposed to launch the following initiatives. In view of the low level of cooperation between specialists in dermatology, ophthalmology and gynecology, consultations will be launched between the representatives of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds and the representatives of the professional associations concerned with a view to preparing possible initiatives for the future. There is also an annual telematics premium of EUR 500. This premium is granted to medical specialists who are fully engaged and actively participate in the registration of medical data on projects established by the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds. The Committee will propose the specific conditions for granting it before June 2015. The establishment of a system of fees for certain benefits in kind, such as breast reconstruction after cancer, whether or not capped, for example, by setting tariffs with agreement. With regard to the contracting status, Article 73 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits provides that doctors must make the information available in the waiting room of medical practice in a clear and legible manner. They should also specify whether or not they have partially acceded to the Agreement. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service receives only very exceptionally a complaint in that regard. When the medical inspectors of that service go to a health care professional's office in the context of any investigation, they automatically check whether that obligation is also met. It goes without saying that doctors must provide information on their level of convention. However, beneficiaries may also request prior information about the doctor from their sickness fund. The RIZIV shall also make that information available on its website. So it's a two-track policy. On the one hand, doctors are obliged to inform and, on the other hand, the patient may, if he so wishes, receive that information in advance in order to decide which doctor one will go to.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. By the way, I would like to welcome all young people here to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u4	It's a school from Zemst.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u5	That is how they see that MEPs and ministers are working effectively. On television, the empty spaces in the hemisphere are particularly striking. However, MEPs are also active "behind the scenes" in other halls. Madam Secretary, you have reported a number of positive things, in the sense that you clearly recognise the problem. You have set up a working group to take new initiatives to tackle the problem of unconventionality. From my practical experience, I doubt whether the increase in the EUR 500 practical grant will be sufficient to stimulate general practitioners. It's a first step, though. The foundation, the reason why doctors are deconventional, goes much deeper. The same applies to the specialists. There must be very good consultation, because there has been a form of derailment for years. There is displeasure both among the patients and with the specialists themselves. I believe that a good balance will have to be struck and I hope that you will work on that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 3640 by Mr Van der Maelen, No. 3654 of myself, No. 3691 by Mrs Pehlivan and others, Mr Blanchart's 3954 were postponed to the next meeting. Debates of the European Parliament 4135 by Mr Blanchart was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u7	Madam President, Minister, according to figures from the Cancer Registry Foundation, 65,269 new cancer diagnoses were registered in Belgium in 2012. If it was still necessary to demonstrate this, these figures show that the fight against cancer must remain a public health priority. In 2008, a comprehensive National Cancer Control Plan was launched. The Plan contains thirty-two concrete measures, first on prevention and screening, then on care, treatment and support for patients and, finally, on research. These are essential axes to reduce the disease, to continue to improve the lives of those affected and to allow for an ever more innovative medicine in this field. An evaluation of this Plan has also been conducted by your predecessor and additional measures have been included. The Plan, the implementation of which is encouraged internationally by the World Health Organisation and the European Union, also aims to make "policy actions at different levels of power complementary, to enhance their effectiveness by sharing common objectives". Minister, in your general policy note, you mentioned that you had to check whether this Cancer Plan could continue to be implemented. Today, concerns remain. Can you confirm to what extent the National Cancer Plan can continue to be implemented and, above all, tell us clearly where we are today? Is the National Cancer Plan on the agenda of the next Interdepartmental Health Committee? Could you tell us if an evaluation of this Plan is planned in the near future? Are additional measures already envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u8	Mr Frédéric, it is clear that cancer remains a priority for public health. The Cancer Plan originally planned for the period 2008-2010 has been continued and expanded with additional measures since 2011. The Public Health FPS and INAMI are responsible for the implementation of the Cancer Plan. Today, the majority of the actions of the Cancer Plan have been carried out and are structural measures. These actions will of course be pursued, as I also mentioned in the policy note. The Cancer Plan is the subject of consultation with the federated entities and is discussed in the intercabinet working groups on chronic diseases. In addition, the topic was already on the agenda of the March 30 interdepartmental committee alongside other issues, including the management of the Memorandums of Understanding on Cancer Screening, namely a protocol with the federated entities. At the end of 2012, the Cancer Centre presented a first attempt to assess the implementation of the initiatives implemented under the Cancer Plan for the period 2008-2010. Five areas have been identified as priorities: rehabilitation of oncological patients, the link between hospital and home care (integrated care), stem cell banks and donations (I have already answered a question about this in our previous committee), the quality system of oncology care and, finally, personalized medicine. These themes were discussed in thematic working groups to analyse each theme and formulate new evidence-based measures based on available budgets. For example, the working group on the rehabilitation of oncological patients is currently carrying out a pilot project in the field in three large hospitals in each Region, specifically to develop a socio-professional reintegration tool for people with cancer. In addition, in collaboration with the SPF, we are studying with experts how to simplify legislation so that the return and socio-professional reintegration of chronic patients is better guaranteed. Such measures are important in order to avoid the social isolation of these people. The Cancer Centre at the Scientific Institute of Public Health, which was established in 2009 and is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the Cancer Plan, published an update in 2014. This 90-page document is available and includes all the achievements already made under the Cancer Plan. For lack of time, I obviously cannot read these 90 pages here.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u9	Minister, there is sometimes a mismatch between when a question is tabled and when it is asked. As the Interministerial Council is out of date, what matters to me is that decisions have been taken in the past and that we continue to follow closely what is a terrible scourge for our fellow citizens. I am therefore pleased to see that things are continuing with new directions and implementation in a number of sectors. You just talked about the socio-professional reintegration that we don't think about directly when we talk about cancer. Madam Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to a study published on March 31 in the journal Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety, domperidone, a drug used to treat vomiting and nausea, marketed under the name of Motilium, could cause about 200 deaths in France in 2012. In February 2014, this independent drug information review had already alerted about the dangers of domperidone and in particular about the heart rhythm disorders it could cause. Despite the criticism of this study, a few weeks later the European Medicines Agency recommended a restriction on the use of this substance. According to the AFMPS (Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products), it appears that 11 cases of patients treated with domperidone have been notified. Five of these cases have reportedly been notified by health professionals, with a causal link considered possible. In four other cases, the causal link could not be established for lack of sufficient information. One case was reported in the press and another was reported to be due to a drug overdose. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have read the study recently published in France. Do you confirm the figures in the press concerning the deaths recorded in our country? What are the current recommendations for the use of this medication? Do you have any recent studies on the subject in our country? Do you consider it useful to commission a new study on this issue? As we know, the public sometimes has the impression that doubt about drug use benefits the pharmaceutical industry more than the patient. Of course, we will have to work to maintain, if not restore, the confidence of the citizens in this matter. Can you explain in detail how our pharmacovigilance system works, and what possible follow-up is given to reports of adverse reactions from health care professionals and patients to AFMPS? Thank you in advance for the answers you would like to give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u11	Dear colleague, I have indeed read the study recently published in France. I would first like to point out that the experts from the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) and the French Medicines Agency have analysed this publication in depth and will soon share the conclusions of their analysis within the Pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee. To date, these conclusions do not call into question the latest decisions taken by the European Commission in July 2014 for medicinal products containing domperidone. The AFMPS has indeed confirmed the figures published in the press concerning recent deaths in our country, namely eleven notifications of deaths of patients treated with domperidone. The cardiac risk of domperidone has been the subject of several studies in the past. As early as February 2004, the risk of QTc segment prolongation was identified. Disruption of the electrocardiogram, potentially fatal in some situations, has been added to the package leaflets of medicinal products containing domperidone. For several years, the Agency has been closely monitoring new data related to the use of domperidone. In 2013, she decided to place this medicine under prescription. We used to find him on over-the-counter. During the same period, the Agency launched an in-depth reassessment of the benefit/risk balance of medicinal products containing domperidone at European level. In July 2014, the European Commission issued its decision and adopted a number of provisions, such as the mention of new contraindications, in particular for patients with heart rhythm disorders and concomitant use of certain medicinal products, as well as the reduction of maximum doses. Additional studies have also been requested from pharmaceutical companies marketing domperidone in EU member countries. Implementation of the European Commission's decision is under way, so it does not seem appropriate at this stage to require further studies. With regard to the reporting of adverse reactions by healthcare professionals and patients, each notification is assessed individually and encoded in the European and WHO pharmacovigilance databases. In addition, each health care professional receives a detailed assessment report regarding the reporting of adverse reactions. Beyond the pharmacovigilance aspects, the Vigilance Division of the AFMPS is responsible for communicating to health professionals and the public information on the safety of the use of medicines, in particular through the AFMPS website. Initiatives are being implemented to maintain and strengthen citizens' confidence in medicines and the role of health authorities in this regard. I think that this is a very strong signal that we have given with the French Agency to have more information in order to feed our arguments before the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u12	Madam Minister, I thank you for your comprehensive answers, which show, as you point out in your conclusion, the value of sharing knowledge with France. Even if you have pointed out, in addition to the studies carried out and the adverse effects noted, I stress that trust in the citizen remains a priority. I know you'll be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u13	Madam President, Minister Rotarix and RotaTeq are oral vaccines indicated in infants from the age of six weeks to prevent gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus infections. In Europe, they have been authorised respectively since February and June 2006. Between the beginning of the marketing in France of these two vaccines and 31 October 2014, more than one million doses were distributed. It appears that 508 reports of adverse reactions have been medically confirmed. Of these 508 cases, 201 were serious and resulted in two deaths in 2012 and 2014. These are acute intestinal invaginations, a kind of withdrawals of a segment of the intestine in the next intestinal portion, which require immediate management from the first signs. While vaccination had been recommended by the High Council for Public Health in November 2013, the Council will review its position in the coming days. In the meantime, still in France, a letter was sent to 160,000 health professionals to make families aware of the signs occurring within one month of vaccination, to consult without delay. I apologize, Madam Minister, for often mentioning French examples, but since I am a native of Épernay in Champagne, you will understand why. In Belgium, every year, before the vaccine was introduced, more than 6,000 children were hospitalized due to rotavirus gastroenteritis. Since the introduction of vaccination, the number of hospitalizations has decreased considerably. It is estimated that at the age of 4-5, virtually all children had an episode of rotavirus gastroenteritis. Mortality is very low, virtually zero, in European countries. Madam Minister, in view of the above, can you tell me whether you have any specific figures regarding the number of deaths resulting from rotavirus gastroenteritis in Belgium? We hope, of course, that it will be zero. How many cases of complications have been recorded following the administration of these vaccines to us? What is your position on the matter? Have any preventive measures been taken, as in France, since I have quoted the letter sent to 160,000 health professionals?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u14	Mr Flahaux, the mortality rate associated with rotavirus infection is very low in Western countries, but this virus is nevertheless the leading cause of hospitalization in children. Clinical studies have shown that there is a minimal but very real risk of intestinal invagination following vaccination with Rotarix and RotaTeq. This represents one to five cases per 100,000 people vaccinated. Given the impact of the vaccine on the number of hospitalizations and the benefits far greater than the risk of intestinal invagination, the Higher Council of Health has recommended vaccination against rotavirus in Belgium since October 2006. In 2012, the vaccination rate for children was estimated at 89 per cent for the first dose. Following the introduction of vaccination, the total number of hospitalizations due to rotavirus decreased by 73%. Prior to vaccination, one to 27 people died each year in Belgium due to acute gastroenteritis. Since the spread of vaccination, the number of deaths has been reduced from zero to three cases per year, representing a decrease of more than 50 per cent. This decrease is therefore significant. Side effects, after vaccination, are monitored by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) and all physicians are expected to report them. If signals indicated an abnormal number of invaginations, the problem would be referred to the Higher Health Council for advice. But this is not the case at the moment. As regards the number of cases of complications that have been counted following the administration of these vaccines, I can tell you that since the placing on the market of Rotarix (June 1, 2006) and RotaTeq (June 1, 2007), a total of thirty-one cases of intestinal invaginations following vaccination against rotavirus have been recorded in Belgium. None of these cases resulted in the death of the vaccinated child and 15 cases were life-threatening. Twenty-two cases of intestinal invagination required surgery, of which ten involved partial resection of the intestine. Five cases were treated by simple enema and one case was resolved spontaneously. Furthermore, there has been no increase in the number of cases of intestinal invagination following vaccination with Rotarix or RotaTeq since the introduction of these vaccines into the Belgian market. The situation is positive: a reduction of more than 50% in the number of cases has been recorded. Of course, there is still a risk, even if it is reduced. It is therefore useful for the medical profession to be informed and to know how to act in case of a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for this specific information. Indeed, information to professionals is entirely justified; I do not know if it has been transmitted. Having said that, I know that you are particularly sensitive to this kind of case.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u16	We follow the file every year. If this were to change, if new information were to be available, we could again seek advice from the Higher Council to see if the behaviour of babies who received this vaccine has changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u17	Thank you, Minister. We are called upon to speak sometimes in somewhat complicated terms, but we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in 2012, police statistics recorded 3,053 rape complaints. There were 75 complaints of partner rape. It is also known that a large proportion of sexual offences are not reported and are therefore not included in police statistics. As has often been pointed out, the registration of such acts of violence should not be limited to the police and judicial sectors. It is essential to ensure that the facts are taken into account in all the sectors concerned in order to obtain a comprehensive overview of the problem. As we know, sexual violence is the subject of a specific approach within the framework of the national plan of action to combat violence. However, among the findings of the Senate's work on the follow-up to the implementation of the Platform for Action of the Fourth United Nations World Conference on Women, of which I stress the quality, it appears that not all cases of sexual violence are currently recorded in hospitals. However, the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which is due to be ratified by Belgium in the near future, requires that such cases of sexual violence be registered in hospitals. Minister, my questions are quite specific. Could you tell us if a specific procedure is in place when a person comes to a hospital after having been sexually abused? Is it true that hospitals do not systematically record all cases of sexual assault? If so, what are the reasons? Many awareness-raising activities within hospitals have been carried out on the initiative of your predecessor. Are you considering continuing and increasing this awareness among hospital services about the importance of recording all cases of sexual violence? Do you intend to continue to set up a genuine tool for the automatic recording of cases of sexual violence in all hospitals in the country in order to enable these victims to benefit from quality care and follow-up, as called for in the Istanbul Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u19	Madam, thank you for your question on this very important issue. In hospitals, the specific procedure for the care and registration of victims of sexual violence is not yet in place. In fact, few doctors in hospitals have expertise in DNA collection among victims who report to hospital emergencies. However, it is urgent to do this after the fact, ideally within 72 hours of contact with the attacker, in order to be able to use this DNA sample and to identify, if possible, the attacker. This is why health professionals from fourteen hospitals, including eight Flemish, four Walloon and two Brussels hospitals, are currently being trained to use the sexual assault set properly. It is likely that not all cases of sexual violence are recorded, mainly for two reasons. First of all, the diagnosis is not always made. Next, hospital coding cells are not always aware of the codes used. However, codes specific to sexual abuse in adults and children exist both in the ICD-9CM (The International Classification of Diseases, Nineth Revision, Clinical Amendment) classification used until 2014, and in the ICD-10 classification, which is currently being implemented. With regard to the coding of sexual violence, as well as for female genital mutilation and domestic violence, the medical auditors attached to the management services of the Public Health FPS will work to raise awareness among the coding cells of hospitals in order to obtain in the long term a quality recording of this data. In addition, from 1 January 2016, the registration of emergency data will be made mandatory and all data will have to be sent to the Public Health FPS. Article 10, § 4 of the Royal Decree of 15 January 2014 obliges the emergency services to register, I quote, "the reason for the registration in the emergency department with the following information: the specific circumstances, the symptom which constituted the reason for the contact with the emergency department, the sometimes temporary diagnosis made by a specialist doctor linked to the emergency department". This order is being implemented but will be made mandatory as of January 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The problem is real. When we hear the number of more than 3,000 rapes per year, not counting all unreported cases, it is vital to set up compulsory registration as of January 1, 2016. I would like to reiterate the importance of working with your other colleagues in the government, be it the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice or the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I would like to reiterate the importance of cooperation with your colleagues, be it the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. We will only be able to move forward effectively if everyone in their area of competence becomes aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u21	Madam President, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago, the Belgian Drug Early Warning System warned against a powder circulating in Belgium containing ocfentanil. Ocfentanil is a synthetic opioid derived from fentanyl, a very potent analgesic used mainly in surgical operations or prescribed to patients with terminal cancer. It is also known to be 80 times more active than morphine and the active substance it contains is hundreds of times stronger than that present in other opiates, such as heroin. Such products have already caused deaths around the world, usually because they are sometimes sold as a substitute for heroin without the knowledge or awareness of users. So far only one death due to the consumption of this powder has been recorded in Belgium. This is approximately four weeks ago. Minister, have there been any other deaths associated with this drug use in our country since then? Have any concrete measures been taken to inform and warn health professionals of the presence of this substance in our territory? While the purchase and use of illegal drugs is strictly prohibited in Belgium, drug users obviously have to exercise the utmost vigilance. What channels have been used to warn the population of the danger of this new substance? Can you tell us how long it took from the time the first death occurred to the time when the information could be shared with professionals and the public? Finally, as you said a few weeks ago, this type of substance should soon be incorporated into a royal decree targeting generic structures such as fentanyl in order to better combat what is called legal highs. However, you said that you had to exercise caution so that there was no unintended negative impact on the sector that handled these substances legally. Minister, have you ever consulted the sector on this issue? If not, when is this planned and when should this order be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u22	Madam President, Mr Frédéric, fortunately, no new deaths following the use of ocfentanil drugs have been recorded. It was also the very first time, and therefore for the moment, the only time that this type of drug had been found in Belgium. It is the responsibility of the Belgian Drug Early Warning System to inform professionals of the presence of high-risk substances, such as ocfentanil, on the Belgian drug market. The Belgian Alert System is one of the registration systems in the Belgian Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, managed by the Scientific Institute of Public Health. While reported drugs pose an alarming risk to health, BEWSD initially collects all available information about them and sends an alert to the professional network. This network is made up not only of all Belgian laboratories but also of the emergency and assistance services of the police and the public prosecutor's office, associations to help drug addicts and others. The Institute shall also ensure that all information is included in a specific database accessible in electronic form to registered experts. All data are also shared with international partners. In parallel with this national alert system, the Socio-Epidemiological Alcohol/Drug Observatory in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Vereniging voor alcohol en andere drugproblemen act as an early warning system by the French Community and Vlaamse Gemeenschap. Their role is limited to taking action in the area of prevention and reduction of harm. These regional partners are given priority warning so that they can spread the alert message more widely. In addition, the Scientific Institute of Public Health has taken the initiative, in collaboration with the firms, to actively disseminate a press release in order to inform the public of the danger of this substance through the media. The time frame for the transmission of this information depends on the analysis of the samples necessary to confirm the cause of the victim's death. The consultations in question are numerous and include not only industry but also other relevant administrations, such as Customs, Justice and Home Affairs. At the moment, it is not yet possible to indicate a deadline, but we are working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u23	For the draft royal decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u24	No, for collaboration!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u25	Minister, I am pleased that there have been no new cases in recent weeks. It is always extremely challenging when one is confronted with this type of information by saying that users can, despite them, use drugs such that they do not control the content and risk their lives. It's challenging, but it's also reassuring. As regards the warning, information and prevention system, you seem to be satisfied. So I can follow you. Here, it worked since the information arrived on the ground, including among the citizens, of which I am a member. In this regard, I am reassured. I have not heard a response to your draft royal decree to incorporate generic structures such as Ocfentanil. You had announced a royal order, while being careful not to touch products used legally in certain circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u26	This work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u27	You don't have a deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u28	No. We need to be careful with the products we put on the list. We remain vigilant on this issue and react as soon as possible as there is an alert.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u29	Madam President, Minister, basal cell carcinoma is, as we all know, the most common skin cancer, but also the easiest to cure when detected in time. Spinocellular carcinoma is much faster in evolution while melanoma remains the least common, but also the most dangerous. According to a survey of 1,300 European dermatologists, including 100 Belgians, the postponement of the diagnosis of skin cancers would cause the death of 150 people each year in Belgium. According to recent figures in the media, it appears that more than 40% of patients defer medical consultation between three and six months after first signs of skin cancer have been detected and that 14% would wait more than a year. The reasons given seem to be diverse: ignorance of danger, lack of time, fear of diagnosis, etc. However, if people consulted their dermatologist in time, it appears that more than 40% of deaths could be avoided. According to the President of Euromelanoma Belgium, "we must do our best to reduce the number of patient rendezvous delays. We can really save lives if cancer is taken in time." Early surgical treatment gives a survival rate of more than 90% after five years. Skin cancers therefore have this special feature that they are preventable and cureable if taken sufficiently in time. But this requires building on key pillars of prevention, awareness-raising and early diagnosis. Minister, can you tell us how many skin cancers have been diagnosed in our country in recent years? Can you distinguish the number of cases of melanoma, basal cell carcinomas, and spinocellular carcinomas? As you know, a resolution was passed in 2013 to improve the education and early detection of skin cancers and thus stop their steady and rapid progression. Can you tell us what is happening with the implementation of the demands of this resolution and what new initiatives you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u30	Mr Frédéric, first of all, I would like to say that the figures abound. It is not your custom to ask me so many numbers, so I will give them to you exceptionally. Normally, in this case, a written question is asked. The Cancer Registry Foundation can give an overview of the incidence of skin cancers in Belgium. Skin cancers can, for the most part, be subdivided into two major groups: melanomas and non-melanoma tumours, mainly basal cell carcinomas and spinocellular carcinomas, which are more dangerous than previous ones. Melanomas are the most aggressive skin cancers. They account for about 10% of these cancers. I have the figures for 2012. There are 2,511 new melanoma diagnoses, more among women than men (approximately 1,400 among women and about 1,100 among men). The incidence of melanoma in Belgium is significantly increasing. Between 2004 and 2012, it increased on average by 5.5 per cent for men and 4.6 per cent for women annually. In 2011, 372 Belgians died as a result of a melanoma. Non-melanoma skin cancers are prognosisal skin tumours. They account for 90% of skin cancers. In 2012, the Foundation still recorded 27,400 new diagnoses of non-melanoma skin cancers, half in men and half in women. Basocellular carcinomas are not found in the classic paintings published by the Cancer Registry Foundation, nor in those published by cancer registries internationally. Nevertheless, 21,700 new diagnoses were registered in 2012 for Belgium. The increase in incidence is also significant. On average, it was 10 per cent for men and 12 per cent for women between 2004 and 2012. The remaining non-melanoma skin cancers are spinocellular carcinomas. There were 5,400 new diagnoses in 2012. Again, the increase in incidence is significant. On an annual average, it was 6 per cent for men and 8 per cent for women between 2004 and 2012. These figures correspond to the results observed in the Netherlands. It may sound weird to you, but that's how it is. That said, it's not that surprising. I brought the table of new diagnoses by skin type, sex and age in Belgium for 2012. Then I'll let you know. The content of the Resolution of 17 July 2013 on improving the education and early detection of skin cancers in order to stop their steady and rapid progression is in the area of awareness-raising and prevention. Following the sixth reform of the State, the latter was entrusted to the Communities. Nevertheless, the federal state, in this case the Public Health FPS, has long been a loyal partner in the campaign www.soleilmalin.be or www.veiligendezon.be. These sites inform the public about the dangers of the sun in summer, during winter sports and holidays, which have become more frequent. As for the control of some 4,000 tanning centres, this is the responsibility of my colleague Peeters. Compliance with the rules of operation of tanning beds is monitored by its services. He has already announced that a consultation with the owners of these centres is planned. In addition, the control of registration falls entirely within the competence of the SPF Economy. The resolution also proposes a Global Medical Record Plus (GMD+) module for annual screening by the general practitioner from the age of 45 years. In case of doubt, the patient will be recommended to a dermatologist. While waiting for more specific guidelines, this is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for the figures, even if I promise you that I will not make it a habit. It is clear from these figures that this type of problem is on the rise. Aggressive melanomas have an average annual increase of more than 5%; it is not annoyance, when one knows that the most horrific conclusion to take into account is 372 deaths for 2011. I hear there are a number of shared responsibilities. It's sometimes a little complicated in our state, but we wanted it that way. In the analysis that has been made, I am concerned that people may be victims of this type of cancer or may die, simply by misinformation or under-information, by a lack of will to know the truth or by taking the problem lightly. I think there is work to be done in consultation with the Communities. I know the Minister of Economy is responsible for solar benches. Without having any medical competence, I believe that solar banks have a responsibility for this problem. Even if there are rules, there is sometimes a lack of guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u32	We can evaluate the rules, but it is up to the Minister of Economy to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u33	In my opinion, the Minister of Health must be the head of the whole thing, because it is a public health issue. You can, for example, organize exchanges in your intercabinets but you should not separate problems. It is true that the Minister of Economy manages solar banks, but on the other hand, there are deaths. I'm not attacking the sector in particular. It is up to everyone, as a responsible adult, to manage their consumption, including that one. But then, everyone needs to know the ins and outs and the risks involved, especially in view of the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u34	It is true that we must make the counter-advertisement of tanning!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u36	I'm glad to hear you on the DMG+.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u37	There are initiatives like the Melanoma Day. Every year, in May, there is a free dermatologist screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u38	We organized it once or twice in parliament. This is a very important problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u39	Madam President, Minister, in our country, 10,000 people die every year from cardiac arrest. According to some scientific studies, this figure could be considerably reduced if these people were provided with rapid medical assistance. Automatic external defibrillators (AEDs) can of course be of great use in this context. Located in public places, these devices are indeed likely to save the lives of people who are victims of cardiac arrest. They are therefore accessible and usable by the population. However, it seems that some still fear using these defibrillators and that communication work should be done with the public to familiarize them with these devices so simple to use. Minister, can you give us an estimate of how many times the automatic defibrillators in our country's public places have been used? Do you think they are still underused today? Would it not be useful to inform and raise public awareness about the use of these devices? The use of these defibrillators by non-health professionals in cardiac arrest is based on simple gestures. It appears that a short and practical initiation would increase the survival rate of victims. Does such training exist in our country? Do you consider it useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u40	Mr. Frédéric, you know that this is a subject that I care about. The answer to your last question about utility can be found in the history of automatic defibrillators. As you know, the Royal Decree of 2007 on the provision of defibrillators to the general public is the result of parliamentary work in this committee. Our colleague Yolande Avontroodt and I made the suggestion at the time that they should also be made available to untrained people. It was thanks to the Royal Decree of 2007 that all emergency medical aid ambulances were equipped with automatic defibrillators. To date, my administration has registered more than 5,500 defibrillators available to the general public. The Royal Decree also provided for the owners of automatic defibrillators to make available to the SPF the data recorded during the use of the automatic defibrillator, but the modalities for the transmission of these data were never defined. Therefore, my administration does not have any usage data and I cannot answer your first question. With regard to awareness and training in the use of automatic defibrillators, they do exist and take place in several ways. They are organized by private companies, by the Red Cross, hospitals, occupational doctors, schools - you really want to teach teachers and students how to use them - and so are sports centres and clubs, airports, and the staff of all places where you can find an automatic defibrillator; there are more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It's good to be able to put proposals into practice when you're a parliamentarian. You will remember that we can have proposals to put into practice as long as we find the help of your majority. But that's another story! I see many of these devices in associations, sports and other settings. I feel like they're here, but everyone avoids them by saying, "as long as I don't have to use it." Indeed, a majority of people in the field do not know how to do so. I know, for having followed the training myself, that it is very simple. Still, it is necessary to make the difference between the gesture that we pose...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u42	You just have to follow the instructions of the machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u43	Yes, it's very simple when you're in a training situation. I don't know if my emotional, emotional reaction would play a role in an emergency. It's different. To complete your work, you could see to what extent data transmission procedures could not be objective in order to know how many of the 5,500 devices were used with a positive effect. It would be interesting to know whether these devices are used for anything other than decorating the walls!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u44	When you have completed the training, you feel more comfortable because it is true that this can be a panic situation. A person is on the floor, what should be done? Should we act? Wait? The minutes, however, are very important and should not be lost. There are training courses everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u45	Mrs Hufkens is not present to ask her question No 4098.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, you have asked the High Health Council for an opinion to obtain a neutral and objective analysis of Professor Nik Van Larebeke's study on the consequences of the dioxin crisis. This study shows that there would be 20 000 additional cases of cancer in women, 20 000 additional cases of diabetes and 24 000 additional cases of high blood pressure. Not everyone in the scientific world agrees with that study. However, that is not really the essence. What matters is, above all, what we can do to prevent any additional case of cancer, especially when this can be a result of the dioxin crisis. I therefore have the following questions for you. What policy are you pursuing to prevent toxic substances such as dioxin from entering our food chain? We know that the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency, which oversees this, is undermanned and undermanned. Do you not take unnecessary risks in the field of public health by not using them anymore? Wouldn't it be better to bring the BFSA back under the authority of Health and not to leave it under Agriculture? That would certainly not harm the precautionary principle. Finally, when exactly can we expect the advice of the High Health Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u47	Madam Minister, in order to complete Ms. Dedry's question, it is true that it is an issue of concern to have a statement announcing as many health problems as possible and even risks of death, and, at the same time, to hear other professors, such as Professor Bernard, say that these figures are not mathematically possible and that these are assumptions made in 2003. The rate of dioxin decreases as a result of product standards and environmental measures. This proves that they are useful! A series of chlorine-based pesticides, PCBs, incinerators were removed, and dioxin levels were reduced, resulting in no further studies. In Wallonia and Brussels, in any case, Professor Bernard stopped his studies in view of this decrease. In Flanders, I do not know whether the studies are continued. Minister, it is interesting to have asked the Supreme Council of Health to formulate the various opinions and studies. I would like to know what the purpose of the study proposed to the Supreme Council of Health was. What are the deadlines? Taking into account the number of researchers, all concerned about the health cause, I wonder if it would not be interesting to organize symposia or meetings between doctors and professors who have different analyses or studies and to make the link between health and the transparency of the food chain, with health as a starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u48	Dear colleagues, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (AFSCA) was established in 1999, during the previous decade, inter alia, on the initiative of the then Minister of Public Health, Magda Aelvoet, in the aftermath of the dioxin crisis that took place just before the elections. The aim was and is to achieve an integrated approach to food safety, from the rick to the fork, as it is called. Until 2002, the supervision of Health was fragmented with the General Food Inspectorate, the then National Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute of Veterinary Inspection, the IVK. At the time, the dioxin crisis revealed the serious lack of coordination and cooperation between the various competent authorities. It is therefore the credit of the politicians at the time of setting up the agency to achieve a coordinated whole, integrating the monitoring of all the elements of the food chain, including animal diseases and plant health aspects, as they are mentioned. Belgium was, by the way, a frontrunner in Europe with this initiative. Therefore, your suggestion that the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain should be re-housed with the Federal Health Authority seems to me to be a step backwards and against the philosophy of creating an agency where the various services could work better together. For your specific questions on the staff framework of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and on the prevention of contamination of foodstuffs by toxic substances, I must refer you to the competent Minister, my colleague Willy Borsus. A question was asked of the Higher Health Council regarding the results of the study by Prof. Van Larebeke of Ghent on the late impact of dioxin exposure on health. The Supreme Council of Health has received the request and will therefore issue an opinion. We do not yet have a specific deadline on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u49	Madam Secretary, your answers are clear. I just do not share your view that the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain is now better off than it was when it was covered by Health, because I think it is much better to defend the precautionary principle there without other interests, such as agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u50	Minister, the Supreme Council of Health is therefore solely responsible for reviewing the results of the study conducted by Dr. Nik Van Larebeke's team and not for comparing these results with other studies or research that have led to other results.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u51	I'll ask them about their methodology. I asked for an opinion on the possible late effects mentioned in Professor Van Larebeke's study. It seems obvious to me that they are going to carry out research to verify whether or not other studies have been carried out on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u52	In my view, it would be interesting to ask them to analyse the various studies carried out because their approach angle and the criteria chosen might differ. It is therefore not just an opinion on Professor Van Larebeke's study, but the various studies carried out on the subject. The aim is to identify the new elements that are being put forward, to examine whether or not there is a cross-section of data. In summary, it may be appropriate to ask them for further information on how they proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u53	They don't usually work half! But I'll make sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u54	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u55	Madam President, Minister, as we know, our regulations on provider agreements ensure that the patient has significant protection to avoid bad financial surprises. On the one hand, doctors who have been contracted or partially agreed to practise the fees provided for in the medical-mutualist agreement or practice them on certain days and at certain hours. The patient must then only pay the moderator ticket. Nearly 84% of doctors have thus acceded to the 2015 agreement and will apply agreed tariffs. On the other hand, non-contracted doctors fix the fees they wish or demand from the patient supplements beyond the medical-mutualist agreement. However, according to investigations carried out by Test-Achats, it appears that one doctor contracted out of seven bills supplements. Also according to Test-Achats, the average supplement amounts to 4.6 euros and the patient would therefore pay from his pocket 10.6 euros instead of 6 euros, almost twice the moderator ticket. In addition, it appears that many doctors still do not inform patients of their contractual status and related tariffs, even though this is a legal obligation. Could you confirm the numbers provided by Test-Achats? Do you consider it necessary to act quickly to put an end to these illegal practices? If so, what new initiatives are you planning to take? If these practices are actually found, by whom, to whom, and how can they be denounced? Can penalties be applied to the doctors concerned? Have such sanctions been applied in the past? Can you tell us how many doctors are complying with the legal obligation to display their contractual status in their office? Is there a recent study on the subject? Are controls carried out by INAMI in this context? What new measures do you intend to take to improve the transparency of the treaty status and thus allow for correct information for all patients? It is possible to know the contractual status of care providers through a research module developed by INAMI. Do you not consider it necessary to improve visibility and operation in order to make it easier to use?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u56	Mr Senesael, first of all, we cannot invalidate or confirm the figures given by Test-Achats. The national medical-mutualist agreement of 22 December 2014 provides that the application of the so-called law of transparency must avoid as much as possible an administrative overload of the doctor, while securing the patient on the amount to be paid. It also provides for the possibility of setting the conditions for the certificate of supplement for clinical biology, anatomopathology and genetic testing services in order to avoid unpleasant surprises to patients. The Medical Assessment and Inspection Service and the Administrative Control Service of INAMI are competent to determine the infringements. In the event of an infringement by the Medical Assessment and Inspection Service, the latter shall send a warning to the health-care providers or transmit the report to the Administrative Inspection Service for the processing of the case. The executive officer of the administrative control department has the authority to issue an administrative measure. There is an administrative fine which, according to the Social Penal Code, cannot exceed 250 euros. Additional decimes are also applicable to administrative fines under the Social Penal Code. The maximum administrative fine provided for in the Social Penal Code is therefore six times 250 euros, or 1,500 euros. An appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Labour Court. No systematic survey has been carried out on the requirement to display. However, verification of this obligation is carried out during ad hoc contacts with providers for other reasons. As a result, the service has already issued warnings to caregivers. In the past few months, INAMI has made available on its new website a research module to obtain information on healthcare providers, particularly regarding their contractual status. Since this module is intended for every citizen, it is important that their access is easy. Changes have already been made to this application since its inception. It is a continuous work aimed at reducing the complexity of the search engine. Further improvements are under way. Indeed, INAMI is currently developing a new module in the existing MyInami application, which will allow doctors to communicate online their status of conventioning and details of possible partial conventioning data. The data collected through this module, which is expected to be made available in early 2016, will complete the content of the search engine. "Searching for a care provider": this contribution in terms of content to the search engine will be accompanied by an optimalisation of visibility and its functioning. As I told Mrs Detiège, it is also the patient who has the opportunity to look for information before going to the doctor, because when he is already in the waiting room, he remains there in most cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u57	Nine out of ten citizens do not know that there are contracted and unconventional doctors. A study should be carried out on this subject, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I must admit, however, that I am not convinced of your fierce will to make this matter completely clear. I will also ask a written question about certain figures, because you are talking about certain warnings, you are talking about control figures, but you are not quoting them. Madam President, the patient may be informed, but not everyone has the intellectual ability to inform themselves, not know how to do so more than the type of agreement. There is a need for information in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u59	Madam Minister, a question put by Mr Mathot in committee, and the annual report, would show that the Walloon Office de la Naissance et de l'Enfance, the ONE, charges unlawful performance to RIZIV. The ONE, like Child and Family, is responsible for preventive family support for young parents and their children. This has been a state power since the special law of 8 August 1980. In addition, it is explicitly prohibited by law that public utility institutions falling within the scope of the ONE as an organisation of the French Community should claim RIZIV refunds. This is provided for in Article 22 (11) of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits of 14 July 1994 and Article 2 of the Regulation of 28 July 2003, which implements the 1994 Law. What exactly is the ONE's way of working? What is the target group and the offer? What's the difference between Child and Family? How many consultations do both institutions carry out each year? How many staff are employed and associated with the institutions? Where do the revenues come from and how much do they amount to for the two institutions? Where does the difference in the number of prenatal consultations between the ONE and Child and Family come from? Is it true that the ONE is an institution of public benefit, as posted on their website, which does preventive family support and is therefore not entitled to claim RIZIV refunds under any circumstances? As a minister, you must monitor the application of the law on refunds. Did you have an investigation conducted by the RIZIV? What were the results? Has this been discussed with the Länder and the Council of Ministers? What was the conclusion of that consultation? Is it true that the ONE advertises the consultations in the hospitals, which are then charged to the RIZIV? Is that illegal? Is it true that the ONE reimburses the amount of the benefit to young families and charges the rest of the benefit to the RIZIV? Can you confirm that that is also illegal? Has that happened in the past? How long has that been going on? How many consultations are we talking about? What exactly is the performance of the project? How much was already charged to the RIZIV? Will that amount be recovered? In how many years? What sum is it about? Is an additional fine imposed? What measures are being taken to prevent such practices in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u60	You will find that a question from a Member of Parliament provides a great deal of inspiration for a question from another Member of Parliament. That is a variation on the theme of merged questions. Mrs Van Camp, in reply to Mr Mathot's question, it was concluded that it is in fact unclear whether the ONE's method of prenatal consultation organised in the hospital environment, which was explained to me in detail at the time, was in conformity with the legislation. In order to clarify this, I immediately asked the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV to start an investigation into this. That investigation hasn't been completed yet. The data now available show that prevention of prenatal care via Child and Family and the Office de la Naissance et de l'l'Enfance in Flanders and Wallonia has been organised in a variety of ways. In Flanders, Child and Family focus mainly on vulnerable pregnant people. 358 consultations took place in 2011. ONE then focuses on the entire population. ONE organises these consultations in two different ways. Firstly, this is done in centres of ONE itself, where more than 7 500 consultations were organised. That's much more than in Flanders. Secondly, prenatal consultations are also offered in the hospital. There are over 90 000 consultations every year in the hospital. In hospitals, the payment of benefits is based on the RIZIV rate. The ONE provides for a grant for the hospital, at least to the extent of the brake fee, for the costs of the secretariat, organisation and supervision by medical social assistants. Outside hospitals, the performance of the gynecologists is fully reimbursed by the ONE. So that's in their own centers. The benefits of the midwife and general medical staff shall be reimbursed to the RIZIV. The execution of the research of the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV will take several months, I have been told, since I have asked for an investigation that goes back to changing the law and the jurisdiction. You understand I can't communicate about an ongoing investigation. I have not yet received any information on this either, except that it is a great work and that it will take several months. I am only surprised to note that, after replying to Mr Mathot's question here in committee, the text concerning the purely preventive and free nature of the consultations has already been deleted on the ONE website.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u61	For our group, that is a clear indication that something is not kosher. We really insist that the research be carried out. I'll follow it up, too. In a few months' time, you can expect me to ask you again. I myself verified the functioning of the two organs. What you are saying is entirely true: postnatal guidance is offered and paid by ONE, analogous to the operation of Child and Family. I would like to point out that we are also doing postnatal guidance here and that the difference is in prenatal care, which for some reason goes to hospitals and is charged to RIZIV. If that is the case, then it is quite clear that illegal cases are taking place. Our group will insist that this matter be investigated and that appropriate action be taken against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u62	We will therefore be aware of this investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u63	This is a huge job for my services. We have to give them time to check. One has to give the investigation time, I can't ask to investigate everything against a certain deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u64	Madam President, Minister, in the meantime it has been a while: 28 March 2015 the clock was turned one hour ahead. A survey of radio 1 at the time showed that some 75% of the 82 000 respondents surveyed were opposed to the shift in hours. Objectively and from a medical point of view, an hour change also brings with it negative consequences: one hour less sleep, a disturbed biological rhythm, which also affects many babies, confusion, not only in early dementias or dementias, but also the need to reset medication pumps, confusion about the time of taking the medication and thus lower therapy loyalty. Several recent scientific studies have demonstrated the negative effects, including in journals demonstrated effects on the quality of the sleep cycle and the prevalence of acute myocardial infarction. Another scientific journal also showed the effect on the incidence of accidents due to sleep deprivation. It is known that sleep deprivation leads to an increasing risk of diabetes and stress hormones. My colleague in the European Parliament, Frieda Brepoels, therefore asked for plans to be removed. The answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the European Commission was that a report on the effects of the Directive on public health and road safety was issued in 2007 which concluded that the change in hours did not give rise to concern. However, the year after year BIVV also finds that the week after the changeover more accidents occur than the week before the changeover. In Het Laatste Nieuws the link with the conversion itself was explicitly made. No Member State would have asked for the scheme to be amended. That is why, according to the European Commission, the measure was not reviewed. The opinion polls also ignored the European Commission and thus did not always show the same representativeness. The European Commission admits, however, that little research has been carried out on the effects of the change in hours and is now being carried out. We are now a few years later. The medical consequences of abrupt change of the hour, I would ask you to bear this in mind. First of all, are you aware of any malicious medical consequences of an hour's change? What studies have already been carried out? What consequences were investigated? What degree of evidention is there for what consequences? Secondly, has the subject been discussed with your fellow Members from other Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the transition from winter time to summer time has been the subject of controversy for some time, namely since the nineteenth century, especially when it comes to health, sleep patterns, concentration disorders and road accidents. A lot of research has been done in the past. In view of the adoption of European Commissioner Kallas at the time, I do not consider it a priority at this time to give epidemiological or analytical research orders to the Scientific Institute for Public Health or to the High Health Council. At the moment, nothing is moving at European level. No one is considering a change of policy with regard to the change of hours. To address this European issue, you have a representative in the European Parliament, Mrs Helga Stevens, who in the past was rather concerned about public health issues. Maybe she can bring that up. I haven't heard anyone say anything about that. I'll be attentive to it now. If necessary, I would like to mention it, if it fits in with the issues that are being raised. At the moment it is, so to speak, wind-silent in Europe in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u66	I'm wondering if it's not because everyone's waiting for everyone. If nobody thinks it is a priority and no one asks for additional research or raises the issue, nothing will ever happen. I believe that this is now the case. My colleague has already asked the question at European level, but she has caught up with it. I will certainly urge my colleague to put forward new questions about this. However, as a minister, I believe that you can also take action. If there are more signals, your fellow Members may be more inclined to signal problems. This rule can then be considered critically at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u67	You should know that there is an agenda that is set in advance. For example, when we discuss the Ebola measures, it is difficult for me to discuss the change of time. So it has to be the right time to bring that up. One must remain within the agenda and within the allowed 3 minutes. So one has 3 minutes to make a point. This is an exercise that is getting better and better at the end of the mandate. So it has to be appropriate. The agenda was already upset by the Ebola crisis. It fell in the middle of the presidency. Those were really urgent matters that took up a lot of our time. What is not can come yet but it must fit into the agenda. That agenda is being forwarded to us and we must follow it. There is little that can be done outside the agenda. In view of the issues that have already been raised at European level, this may come up for me, but I do not think it is a priority. Nor do we have the right to deal with such urgent matters, such as Ebola.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, initially I had addressed this question to Mr Peeters but he sent you back the hot potato. I come to tell you about a problematic situation that every city in Belgium is facing. This is tobacco advertising by day and night general food stores. I do not, of course, aim at the small shopkeeper here, but at many shops that display a whole series of cigarette packages. It can be seen that, in almost every establishment, tobacco products are exposed in the window in an excessive manner. They sometimes cover almost the entire window. I invite you, whenever you wish, to come and see the situation in Tournai, which is quite revealing of this problem. In the light of the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health, there is a "ban on advertising and sponsorship by tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages". The same law states: "Any communication or action which is intended, directly or indirectly, to promote the sale, regardless of the place, medium or techniques used, shall be regarded as advertising and sponsorship". Considering this law, it is clear that the excessive exposure of tobacco products in the shop windows of these stores, which are neither tobacco shops nor newspaper dealers, is not permitted. Yet, it exists. Minister, can you inform me about the controls carried out by the FPS Economy, as well as any sanctions? If so, would it not be useful to launch a control campaign on a problem which is largely present in our different municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u69	Madam President, Mr Delannois, I would first like to point out that your question is the subject of controls carried out by the Tobacco and Alcohol inspection department of the Federal Public Service Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. It does not therefore fall within the competence of the Federal Public Service Economy. As you rightly recall, tobacco advertising is prohibited and this ban has only a few exceptions. For example, newspapers and tobacco shops are allowed to post posters on their premises. On the other hand, ordinary shops such as grocers or night shops are not allowed to advertise for tobacco. From this point of view, excessive exposure of tobacco products can indeed also be regarded as advertising. The penalties for such offences are not negligible. The minimum administrative fine which the managing official may impose is EUR 10 000, an amount which must be increased by additional decimes. In practice, therefore, the minimum fine is EUR 60 000. Control of this ban on tobacco advertising is one of the essential tasks of the Tobacco and Alcohol inspection service. Several minutes have been drawn up, following the placement of posters on the side façades, the delivery of gifts for the purchase of tobacco products, the sale of duopacks at advantageous prices, the development of a comic book shop in the colours of a well-known tobacco brand. You may recall the trial that took place as a result of such an arrangement. I would also like to add that my services await the judgment that the court will shortly render in a case in which they have drawn up a report following the use of special presentation techniques, such as LED lighting in a cabinet containing tobacco products, posters indicating the price and quantity, the presence of displays on the counter. This judgement will clarify matters concerning the use of certain advertising techniques. The Tobacco and Alcohol inspection service will then inform the sector through the main sectoral organisations. This initiative will be followed by a new wave of intensive controls in shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u70	Minister, you talked about sanction. But I didn't understand who could take this kind of punishment. On the other hand, with regard to the judgment to which you referred, do you know more or less when it will be rendered?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u71	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u72	And who can take the penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u73	The Tobacco and Alcohol inspection service.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u74	Minister, you have referred to a whole series of fines that can be given. You have quoted quite impressive figures. I must tell you that I was happy when you brought them to our attention. But on the ground, we can realize that they don't necessarily make them very scary. It is currently prohibited to affix advertising of any kind. On the other hand, 1,000 packs of cigarettes are not prohibited. In doing so, when you arrive in front of the shop windows that proceed in this way, you can only see those packages. As a mayor, I can, through my services, act if a poster is affixed. On the other hand, I am not allowed to act against what is behind the window. So, give me the means to act, and I can assure you that I will not miss them, even with administrative sanctions. Still, at the present time, I do not have the means as mayor of the city of Tournai to prevent this kind of thing. Give me all possible and imaginable leads, and I certify that I will follow them!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u75	Mr Delannois, we are awaiting the outcome of the procedure. In this way, we can give you several tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u76	I know I'm still going to make friends, but the worst is that some tournese stores don't sell a single pack of cigarettes, so you can ask yourself how they can continue to survive. That's impossible. Any independent can tell you that if he does not sell the goods in his trade, he will fail. Now these, no! There's something to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u77	We're gonna have to investigate harder, Mr. Delannois.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u78	But I know the answer, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u79	Madam President, Madam Minister, the High Health Council regularly publishes its recommendations on vaccination, including the HPV vaccine. There is a lot to do about the vaccination of boys as they are increasingly affected by HPV-related cancers at a later age and especially oral type by oral sexual contacts. For every two women, there's a man with a HPV-related cancer. In addition, the HPV vaccine also protects against genital warts. I have three questions. Firstly, has the working group at federal level already considered the recommendations of the High Health Council? Have the hearings taken place on this? What is the content of the HPV vaccination recommendations in both girls and boys? Will vaccination be strengthened free of charge for certain groups of girls and/or boys? If so, which one? What are the benefits of short-, medium- and long-term vaccination found for both genital warts and cancer? What results have been taken and what has been found? Will the policy on girls remain as it has been since the 2008 Recommendation, in particular a free provision of vaccination in schools? Is the vaccination extended to boys now? Secondly, it is expected that a new HPV vaccine will soon be approved by Europe. This vaccine protects against more HPV cancers, including 90% of cervical cancers. Will those vaccines be provided and reimbursed? Thirdly, are recommendations also expected for vaccination against zona? If so, which one? Are there any policy changes on this front?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u80	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the High Health Council is reviewing its opinion on Human Papillomavirus vaccination and will also examine vaccination of boys. In order to be able to answer the rest of your question, I must, of course, have that advice. The High Health Council will also assess the new vaccine when it has been approved by the European authorities. As soon as this assessment is available, I'll take them into consideration. With regard to the zona.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This is expected in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u82	The herpes zoster virus is the venereal form of zona and can also cause many problems. It's also a sexually transmitted disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u83	Is this expected in the second half of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u84	For zona that would be for the second half of this year and I assume that this will also apply to HPV.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u85	I would ask that to know when we will be able to put a question on this again. We are therefore following up on this matter from the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u86	Question No 3925 by Mrs Rita Gantois is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u87	Madam President, it should be made clear to her that this matter is not within my competence. The quality of drinking water has been the responsibility of the federated entities for years. It is about the quality and characteristics of the tap water. Since 2002, this has been the responsibility of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u88	Okay, then this question has to be asked at the correct level. I'll report that to Mrs. Gantois.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u89	This matter must be raised by one of your fellow Members at Community level.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u90	We will forward this information to Mrs Gantois so that she can withdraw her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u91	Madam President, Minister, the KCE has recently produced two reports on the hereditary predisposition to intestinal and breast cancer, which is determined by genetic testing. These conditions are often caused by specific mutations to certain genes. They can express themselves in different ways, depending on the individual. It is therefore often difficult to diagnose them, even because they are rare and the doctors often do not immediately think about them. Patient representatives consulted in the two studies indicate that many people are not redirected to genetic centres or that they do not receive correct information. According to the KCE, it is important that those involved receive rapidly understandable and adapted information about possible choices, such as follow-up or preventive surgery. In addition, psychological support should be provided in communicating the existence of a hereditary predisposition to children and other family members or when family planning decisions need to be made. The KCE calls for the role of genetic advisor, which already exists in France and the Netherlands. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, in the light of this study, are there any plans to start working with this kind of consultant in our country as well? Secondly, the RIZIV recently decided to allocate part of the human heritage centres' budget specifically to better support for this genetic advice. What amount are we talking about here? What is the total RIZIV budget of the Human Heritage Centres? How will it be checked whether the allocated budget is effectively used to better support genetic advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u92	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as far as your first question is concerned, two reports from the KCE indeed mention a genetic consultant, namely in the 242 and 243 reports on certain oncogenetic tests. In this context, I would like to point out that the Supreme Court of Medicine and Specialists has also recently issued an opinion on the possibility of creating a special professional title for the physician-clinical geneticist. We will first examine this opinion in detail before going into the reflections of the hereditary consultant as a care profession. I believe that medical counseling is a competence that should be taken up by the doctor in the context of clinical duties. In addition, this doctor can also be assisted by other providers, including nurses and psychologists, to complete the care offer in case of a genetic diagnosis. Heritage advisory activities are financed through conventions with the centres of human genetics. The genetic advice is given by a multidisciplinary team, composed of a physician-genetic and other care providers, such as nurses, social workers and psychologists. The budgetary data relating to the convention are summarised in a table which I will hand over to you. For 2015, the total budget for genetics was set at EUR 40 788 000, of which EUR 2 224 000 for genetic advice, EUR 37 964 000 for laboratory supplies included in Article 33 of the Nomenclature and EUR 580 000 for tests outsourced to foreign laboratories. There is cooperation with foreign laboratories in relation to certain rare diagnoses for which there is not enough expertise here. By the way, that's a two-way street. Benefits, including inheritance advice, shall be invoiced to the Convention on the basis of pseudo-codes specific to standard genetic advice and complex genetic advice. A check on the medical records may be carried out by the Medical Control Service of the RIZIV or the sickness funds. I'll hand you the numbers on paper. The total amount has evolved from EUR 37 087 000 in 2009 to EUR 40 788 000 in 2015. So this has also seen growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u93	Madam Minister, the opinion must therefore be awaited. We'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u94	Madam Minister, this question has already been raised in our previous committee meeting. You have already referred to the conversation with your Dutch colleague, and I understand from your reply that your Luxembourg colleague has also negotiated with pharmaceutical companies the purchase price of orphan medicinal products. You signed a protocol agreement on this matter with your Dutch colleague. The motivation is that you together represent more patients and can thus lower the price. What specific issues were raised during your discussion with Minister Schippers, in addition to the joint purchase of orphan medicinal products? Were any other medicines and conditions discussed outside the well-known Soliris case? Has there been a concrete roadmap for the conduct of negotiations with pharmaceutical companies? When and for what means can we expect the first steps? Will other countries be involved? If so, which one? Do you not think that cooperation with other countries at European level could bring even greater benefits? Are you also considering extending the initiative to non-orphan medicines? If not, why not? Other plans were also discussed. What data do you wish to exchange in the long term? Which registers do you wish to share?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u95	The agreement we signed on 20 April 2015, together with the Netherlands, is indeed a unique cooperation agreement. The aim of the agreement is to examine how we can cooperate more on the assessment and reimbursement of orphan medicinal products in the first place. It concerns possible assessments, horizon scanning and cooperation in relation to price negotiations. In the first instance, it examines how the Netherlands and Belgium can negotiate with pharmaceutical companies on the reimbursement of orphan medicinal products. No specific medications or conditions were discussed. That may happen in the future, but now there was an intention to work together. The intention to cooperate was therefore established at the level of both our administrations. That is why our administrations will have a lot of work to do. We then discussed this issue with the Luxembourg Member, but it is impossible for us to have our administration draft such a protocol agreement with four or five countries at the same time, because it is the same staff who have to talk to the Netherlands, Luxembourg and possibly other countries. I have always said from the outset that we should design a system at European level. But no one has so far taken any initiative. Moreover, health care systems are very different from north to south and from west to east across all EU countries. There may be, but how long will that take? That is why we have taken the initiative to cooperate with the Dutch. This is also a priority for this legislature, regardless of the attention given to a product or condition. There is a need for someone to ring the bell, because there are currently around 8 000 orphan diseases in Europe, for which 150 medicines are now on the market. For many diseases there are no medicines on the European market yet. If we then extrapolate that to the number of patients in the European Community, we will soon find a figure of 30 million patients suffering from one of the 8 000 orphan diseases. So we thought there were plenty of reasons to get our hands together. Hence the initiative. In order to work out our intention, our national administrations are working together to develop a pilot project. Based on the horizon scan, a suitable product will be identified. We will select a product and negotiate it together. In our timing, the pilot project is expected to start in 2016. It goes without saying that, in the meantime, we are also doing prospecting in other countries to join. They are the same staff of the administration, who will have to make a protocol with each country individually. It is important that the power of the number and scale can provide an advantage for the patients of two countries, but in the case of ten or twenty countries there is, of course, a much greater scale advantage. We are ambitious in this respect. We also owe that to the patient. That is why I took the initiative at the first possible meeting. However, we must remain realistic and pragmatic. The procedures and needs vary from one country to another. There are also different systems. We have chosen the Netherlands, because it is socially and economically comparable and faces similar challenges in terms of health care. We worked well together at the time of the Ebola crisis, which raised the question of rapprochement with the Netherlands in order to ensure sound cooperation and evaluation of the Dutch model. It might as well have been France. France also has a similar population and similar social and economic factors. First, we are addressing countries where the way of paying back and the social system are similar. We intend to expand cooperation, but it must not go too quickly. We must be pragmatic. If my administration has to negotiate on seven fronts at the same time, she could lose the trappers. I'm moving forward slowly but surely. We have shown some interest in cooperation with other countries. I have a dream that one day it can be regulated at European level. I am working with Mr Philippe de Backer of the European Parliament, who has already referred to this on several occasions. We give him information and he gives us information. If we all keep knocking on the same nail, we will be successful in the end. We have also produced a publication on this subject. We are really active in this area. I believe that Belgium can play a leading role in this respect. That's in the interests of all patients with orphan disease. It is estimated that 30 million Europeans are not nothing. It's a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u96	That's right, and we can go along with that. Of course, we regret the lack of European initiative, but we are glad that you are already trying to find a solution on a smaller scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u97	Madam President, I propose that you turn my questions Nos 3678 and 4075 into written questions. This will prevent me from doing a reading exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u98	Madam President, for information, is it not the intention that questions should be dealt with chronologically in committee? How come this place keeps getting jumped back in the day order? Is that what it was supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u99	When a member warns us of his late arrival and asks us to delay the passage of his question, we accept it. In the event of an unjustified absence, the question shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u100	It was just a question, Madam President. I have no problem with it either, but in other committees I have already noticed that the agenda items are strictly followed, without jumping back into the order of business. It is a pity how work is going on here and that should be discussed at the group chairmen level, so that there is uniformity in the committees. It is not possible to rush to a committee sometimes, while in other committees there is a constant fall in the order of the day. I'll bring this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u101	Each committee chair organises his or her work as he or she sees fit. Trying to standardize the rules is good, but we are trying first and foremost to ensure that the questions can be asked, while at the same time empowering parliamentarians. When they warn of their delay, things can get better.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u102	Madam President, I would like to make it clear to my colleague that I was not sleeping under my duvet; I was attending the Committee on Social Affairs, which was looking at the report of the Pension Mediation Service. Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about savings related to shorter periods of maternity leave after childbirth. I would like to address this subject in a number of ways. On the one hand, as a result of this shortening, there is a risk that some newborns will escape systematic testing and, on the other hand, I would like to come back to the budgetary stakes. As far as systematic screening is concerned, as you are no doubt aware, a whole series of them are carried out in maternity and aim to detect various diseases including phenylketonuria, tyrosinemia, leucinosis, histidinemia, homocystinuria, galactosemia, congenital hypothyroidism, but also - in any case on the francophone side, I am sure, having set it up myself as minister - neonatal screening for deafness. These tests are performed between 72 and 120 hours of life. In practice, this means that if it falls a weekend, with a half-day shortening, and even a day next year, the number of newborns who do not benefit from these systematic screenings may increase. You will answer that the question of screening falls within the competence of the Communities. As a reminder, these tests are carried out within maternity wards and it is important that this be done to cover the target population as widely as possible. If we send these newborns home and tell parents to come back to do these tests, you can be sure that we're going to fall to percentages of coverage that are likely to be very low. Minister, have you considered these elements when you decided on savings? How can we ensure that these screenings, which represent a major public health issue, are always carried out on each newborn? The other aspect concerns the impact on hospital budgets and on health-care workers, and particularly within them, on midwives. I've already asked you about that. In fact, as a first step you announced a savings of 11.7 million euros, which had been increased to 18.7 million euros. I want to hear from you about how you calculate this economy. I believe that the calculation of the reduction of half a day's stay in maternity is based on a proportion of the total amount of care. Half a day over four and a half days represents one-ninth of the total amount. These figures were not based on the cost of taking over the last half-day. It is clear that when young mothers and newborns are accompanied, work is much heavier on the first and second days than on the fourth or fifth. Care is more intensive at the beginning, because it is linked to the period of delivery as such. In addition, midwives called the alarm because of the significant impact on the number of full-time equivalents in maternity wards. There will be a direct impact on the quality of services. Minister, how did you calculate? Is this indeed a ninth of the support, whereas this is less burdensome in the last few days and should therefore amount to a much lower amount? Have you taken into account the evolution of the costs of care during the stay between the first and last days? What is the impact on the number of full-time equivalents of midwives that may be eliminated as a result of this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u103	Madam Chair, I will talk to Ms. Fonck about a response I gave to Ms. Dedry regarding midwives and nurses at a meeting in the House on Thursday, May 7. Ms. Dedry told me that she received a lot of phone calls from nurses. I replied that I wanted more nurses to care for patients and that I wanted to make life balance work more enjoyable and attractive for nurses and midwives. I told her I regret that she receives these phone calls every day. But this means that these nurses still have a minute off for Ms. Dedry; she was one of them, in her capacity as a midwife or nurse. I think some people have not listened well to my answer. Mrs. Dedry understood, but Mrs. Fonck apparently didn't. Some have posted a false translation on Twitter and Facebook, but I don't want to repeat the mistake. I didn't start a fight on Twitter or Facebook about it, because I have too much respect for nurses. Yes, Mrs Fonck, I am not one of those who, after receiving a response to an inquiry, will transform this answer behind the back of a minister or a member of Parliament! I'm not doing that. That's not intellectually honest! You weren't the only one, you have to say, but you were still very active. That said, I'm always honest. When something's wrong, I say it. I say it in all sincerity and serenity. With regard to the savings related to the shortening of the period of stay in maternity after delivery, the measure taken is intended to bring the current billing period (4.6 days) into line with the actual duration (4.1 days). The measure therefore does not affect the actual length of stay for the mother and the child at the moment, and I have already said so on several occasions, particularly during the discussion of the budget. Compared with other European countries with a social security and health care system, the length of stay in Belgium is still considerably longer. Shortening the length of stay by adjusting the arrangements for perinatal and postnatal care is therefore not unrealistic. Having said that, the question you are asking about child testing has also been asked a few times. The data available for 2011 show that 41 per cent of women had a residence period that did not exceed 4 days, plus nearly 1,500 outpatient deliveries, i.e. at home or in day hospitals. In these cases, the tests are carried out at home and this is proceeding well. This does not mean that 41 per cent of children were unscreened. Hospitals have a responsibility to raise the awareness of the mother, and I also hope her partner, so that she performs the tests later in or outside the hospital. There is also a need to raise the awareness of the Communities, as you pointed out, of the testing of newborns within their competence. It is not necessary for the newborn to be hospitalized to perform the tests. At present, the issue of support and the modalities for carrying out projects which would aim to supervise young mothers leaving maternity more quickly is currently being examined within my services. Systematic neonatal testing through the collection of blood samples is an element that should be taken into account, in close consultation with the federated entities in such projects, so that this screening covers all newborns. With regard to the savings provided for in the financial resources budget of EUR 18.7 million, the government's objective is to achieve this savings within the framework of the 2015 budget. Discussions are still under way within the National Council of Hospitals to determine the extent to which hospitals can achieve these savings on maternity by shortening the length of hospitalizations. Alternative paths are also being explored to achieve savings. For the moment, therefore, I do not wish to prejudge the outcome of these discussions in the National Council of Hospital Institutions, whose opinion I am awaiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u104	Minister, even if this was not the subject of my question, I could not fail to reply to your first intervention. These decisions have a direct impact on midwives. You have told the House in plenary, and the records show, that if these nurses still have time to complain, they are not so overwhelmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u105	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u106	Excuse me, I didn't interrupt you during your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u107	That's a bad interpretation of what I'm saying. It's a dishonest method!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u108	We shall take it that the report of this committee allows you to say what you have meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u109	If I had had the pleasure of being able to speak in plenary session – and it does not pose a problem for me to change the rules of Thursday's debates...
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u110	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u111	No, because, in the context of topical issues, we cannot reply. If I had had the opportunity, I would not have done so on Twitter; I would have told you right away, right in the eye! You're telling us we're not touching the length of stay. I therefore wonder how hospitals should save EUR 18.7 million. Is it worth recalling that, according to MAHA study, 40% of them are in red?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u112	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u113	Maybe I'll try to finish, it'll be easier! Minister, I would point out that you told us a few months ago that it was not 18 million, but 11.7 million. The reports are proof of that. In fact, you had communicated about it. Meanwhile, it's become 18 million. On the other hand, you claim that this will have no impact on hospitals. Then you can't count it in your savings. It's a good way to wrap the story, but no one's fooled. We will see if these 18 million will ultimately be reinvested in favour of midwives in terms of quality accompaniment for mothers and newborns at home, as I have argued for a long time. I have doubts about this, especially when I see how you calculated this EUR 18.7 million. The fact that the last half-day represents the same cost to the hospital as the first days of maternity is not intellectually honest. As far as screening is concerned, these are obviously averages. In practice, you say that today, it does not prevent those who leave after four days from having their tests. Of course, I recalled that screenings took place between 72 and 120 hours, but you do not address the issue of outings on weekends when these tests are not carried out. I'm not going to go into technical details, but it's a reality. On the other hand, if we want an average that falls to four days, this means that a number of mothers will leave maternity much earlier than they are at present. It is true that the newborn must not be hospitalized to pass these tests, but the challenge is to prevent newborns from escaping these tests. Missing the diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism at birth simply because the newborn did not do the test, this can have extremely important impacts if the diagnosis is late. I'm waiting to see the effects on midwives. If they pull the alarm bell, it's not for nothing. On the other hand, I am waiting to see if the ongoing discussions at the National Council of Hospital Institutions will lead to a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u114	Madam President, Minister, in 2014, the National Medical Mutualist Commission proposed three million savings in polysomnography, with much more restrictive conditions for the reimbursement of this technique. On the basis of literature, paediatricians had strongly opposed this proposal. Unfortunately, you have decided to adopt this measure to restrict the conditions for taking charge of this technique. Thus, from 1 April 2015, if the test can benefit and above all be reimbursed to the parents of children born prematurely or with malformation or neurological disorders, this will no longer be the case for babies of drug addicted mothers or siblings of babies who died of sudden death. Further restrictions on the duration of monitoring and the budget allocation for partner institutions are also provided for. Minister, what economy do you have in mind in this measure? How many children will not be able to benefit from this test to reach the expected economy? Is this economy justified, even though perverse effects have been shown? The death of a child of sudden death is an extremely traumatic event for the parents and siblings of the child. How do you justify refusing the refund of the monitoring for a child born later? Boxes have been published in this regard. In some cases, it is clear that in the absence of such monitoring, the brothers or sisters of babies who died of sudden death would have experienced the same tragic fate. The risk associated with the absence of such reimbursement is the development of a parallel market. Parents who are concerned about poor test results will rent surveillance devices to private companies that lead to additional costs, do not always have the same safety as hospital equipment and are not accompanied by the same information and follow-up. These are also issues that need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u115	Mrs Fonck, I can confirm that a new regulation on cardio-respiratory monitoring of infants at home came into force on April 1, 2015. For the time being, there is no change in the funding of polysomnographic research. It is clear from a report of the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise that polysomnographic examination and home monitoring cannot reduce the number of cases of sudden infant deaths. It has never been scientifically demonstrated that the number of these falls in a country when home cardio-respiratory monitoring is introduced. It's amazing, but that's how it is. However, for certain risk groups, monitoring is indicated. I am thinking in particular of infants who are regularly victims of cardio-respiratory accidents. On the basis of the new rules, the annual expenditure of insurance for home monitoring is likely to increase from EUR 4 600 000 (2013 figure) to EUR 2 569 000 in the future. The existence of a small risk that some parents decide to rent or buy monitoring equipment themselves is in no way a valid argument to continue to reimburse the costs inherent in the use of monitoring for children to whom this monitoring does not provide any medical added value. Two target groups of the old regulation have not been included in the new regulation. First, children born to a drug addict who continued to use hard drugs during pregnancy. Indeed, these children are hospitalized as long as they are under the influence of drugs. During this hospitalization, they are placed under monitoring. From the moment they are weaned and can leave the hospital, cardio-respiratory monitoring is normally no longer required. Then, if the brothers and sisters of children who died of sudden death are in perfect health, there is no medical reason to place them under monitoring. These conclusions have been the result of scientific studies. The decision was not taken abruptly, occulting the death of a sudden-death baby. Such a death may also occur after the monitoring period. In my twenty-five years of practice as a treating physician, I have unfortunately experienced the case. I am convinced that the new regulations will lead to a better use of public health insurance without reducing the quality of infant care and increasing the number of cases of sudden death.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u116	Madam Minister, every year fifty to sixty infants die of sudden death in Belgium. In situations of high risk of sudden death, especially for premature children, malformations or neurological disorders, children of drug addicted mothers and siblings of babies who died of sudden death, it is known that the risk of sudden death is not 1 in 1,500 but 1 in 150. This is much more important than the average infant. Perhaps excesses with unnecessary requirements for cardio-respiratory monitoring of infants have been committed. But, at the same time, I am not sure that moving from almost everything to almost nothing is reasonable, given the much higher risk of sudden death for the categories I have just stated. On the other hand, the way this is done will mainly lead to the development of a parallel market; perhaps we will continue to place infants under monitoring when there is no reason and, on the contrary, for at-risk infants, we may no longer do so. In this regard, we could have had a less brutal and more focused approach to risk situations, which are still known today.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u117	Questions Nos 3678 and 4075 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u118	Madam President, Minister, I have a question on palliative sedation. In early March 2015, the bishops of Belgium presented an opinion paper on euthanasia. They stated that they feared that the limits of the euthanasia law would be systematically exceeded. Their spokesperson agreed to that. According to him, the bishops assume that there is a lot of euthanasia that is not controlled, because those cases are not reported. That's a strange assumption, as the law expressly forbids it. Your partymate, Patrick Vankrunkelsven, was therefore quick to point out in the press that euthanasia must be reported. Even more, where strict rules and care apply to euthanasia, this is not the case for palliative sedation. Thus there is a chance that doctors who have philosophical problems with euthanasia will be able to apply palliative sedation without any control. At the end of March, a study was published by Professor Johan Bilsen and Dr Sam Rys of the Vrije Universiteit Brussel on palliative sedation in residential care centres. This shows that doctors in more than a third of the sedated residents not only intended to relieve their pain, but also shorten life. In a further 5% of the cases, the latter was even the explicit intention. The conclusions of the researchers are therefore remarkable. According to Mr Rys, the practice of palliative sedation is not sufficiently defined. Doctors may start palliative sedation to fight the pain of terminal patients. After that, however, comes the family, who believes it takes too long. In the end, it may also be less harmful if the elderly patient dies as a result of this sedation. So the doctors leave their original starting position along the way. A second statement by Mr Rys is that in almost four out of ten cases something else happens that escapes any control or evaluation. One could speak of slow euthanasia, with the difference that euthanasia is subject to strict rules and should be recorded, whereas this form of termination of life is not the case. According to the researchers, the reason why is not officially chosen for euthanasia is the following. I quote: either because the policy of the home care centre does not allow euthanasia, or because the doctors themselves prefer sedation, sometimes also to circumvent the euthanasia procedure. These are striking results. The free application of palliative sedation is in stark contrast to the policy of euthanasia. Some sources report that one palliative sedation would end at ten errors. Palliative sedation is performed eight times more than euthanasia. The biggest difference with euthanasia is that the doctor can decide to do so without the patient's consent. I have the following questions. Are you aware of this discrepancy in the registration procedure and the legal framework between palliative sedation and euthanasia? How can it be avoided that palliative sedation becomes slow, not legally implemented euthanasia, often applied by some in order not to have to follow a legal procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u119	Madam President, Mr Vercammen, the study clearly shows that there is still work to be done in this area. The stocking is not finished by creating a legal framework for euthanasia. The results of the research you are referring to are still being studied by my services to see what we can do on the ground to avoid situations of this kind. There is indeed an essential distinction between what is understood by palliative sedation and euthanasia or active cessation of life. The intention of palliative sedation can only be symptom treatment, such as pain management in the patient. The medication administered for this purpose should also be proportionate to meet the objective of pain relief, but should not aim to shorten or end life. A first important aspect is therefore the dose of certain medicines given to a patient. Some medicines do not fit at all in pain control but are used in euthanasia. If the physician would decide to accelerate the process of death in palliative sedation, for example because sedation takes much longer than expected, the procedure laid down in the law of 28 May on euthanasia must be complied with. Otherwise, the doctor will not act in accordance with the provisions of that law. It is not possible to allow one person to go into another without the patient's written consent procedure, second advice by a LEIF doctor, which is now also being reimbursed, etc. The bishops of Belgium have published an opinion paper on euthanasia. It is an issue that concerns all citizens in our country and they too are citizens of this country. As far as the legal framework and possible adjustments are concerned, we must have broad social consensus and support. What place is better suited than Parliament to consider whether the legal framework should be adapted and whether there is a social support within this assembly? That debate will probably be continued, but in the meantime we are taking that investigation seriously and we are looking into what we can possibly do to deal with the distressing situations described. One in ten of these patients suffers from such attempted further or too high dose of palliative sedation, with a bizarre course. This is too serious and shows little respect in dealing with the end of a patient's life. This debate must therefore continue, either in this committee or in the hemisphere. The last word on this has not yet been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u120	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u121	Mrs. Muylle is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u122	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, the Netherlands is thinking of re-assessing its donor selection policy. The reason is a judgment of the Dutch College of Human Rights that says that the exclusion of homosexual and bisexual men can be considered discriminatory. Also in Belgium there is a similar framework for giving blood because men, who have had sex with other men, are not allowed to donate blood and donate it for life. In De Drenskrant of 17 April, I read that the Red Cross, which has made a systematic review of the scientific literature on this subject for two years, is very reluctant to take any adjustment to that precautionary measure. The Red Cross believes that today's scientific research does not provide sufficient evidence to alter the measure. Pending more and better research, ask the Red Cross to maintain the current policy. According to the organisation, only an adjustment of the period of exclusion can be considered. I also read in the same article that you would have asked the Supreme Health Council for advice. I'll come to my questions. Did you indeed request this advice? Have you received the advice or when can we expect it? What exactly is your position? Do you consider an adjustment of the current policy desirable? What is your opinion on an adjustment of at least the period of exclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u123	Madam President, Mrs van Peel, there is indeed something going on in the countries around us. Firstly, in the case of transfusion medicine too, I believe that the risks to the recipient, the patient receiving blood products, should be kept to an absolute minimum. The European Court of Justice has indeed stated in a judgment that homosexual men can be excluded under conditions for giving blood and this in the context of an alleged discriminatory exclusion of these persons in France. I also asked for legal advice from the services of the FAGG on the legal value of this ruling. What conditions can be imposed? Is an explanation of honor enough? Among other things, we are also talking about non-sexual contacts during the last year prior to blood sampling. The Court states, inter alia, that it is necessary to consider whether, for men who have sexual relations with men, the higher risk of getting blood from communicable infectious diseases and diseases such as HIV still exists in France. It is also necessary to consider whether there are less burdensome techniques that still guarantee the safety and health of the recipient, in other words, probably different detection tests from those that are currently taking place. I have asked the High Health Council for an opinion on the exclusion criteria for blood donation in its globality. This question also extends beyond just infective risk derivatives. I have asked for this project to be given priority within the list of numerous advisory questions that are being asked. Furthermore, consultations are taking place between my cabinet and the blood institutions to take note of their views. This will enable us to look at what steps we can take and how this is legally justified. This is an important issue which, as Mr Senesael has already mentioned in previous meetings, concerns a great many people. I have also listened carefully to Philippe Vandekerckhove's explanation. He says that with the Red Cross things will remain as they are for the time being. For the Red Cross, this is an exclusion on the basis of a technical reason, namely the safety of blood for the recipient, and not an exclusion on the basis of a legal reason, which could lead to discrimination. I take note of that. I think that's a very nuanced explanation. However, we must also examine what happens in the countries around us, and then evaluate how we deal with it. It is important that we discuss this in complete serenity. If we make a decision, the safety of the recipient must be guaranteed, so the risk must not increase compared to today. On the other hand, we do not want to discriminate on the basis of sexual behavior in itself, but the safety of blood is of course very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u124	Madam Secretary, I think the entire committee is on your line. No one intends to discriminate. The most important thing is that we can guarantee the safety of the blood. That's gotta be the way it is for everyone. I do, however, welcome the fact that you have been working to see what the parameters can be, both technically and on the basis of examples from abroad, in order to see whether there is a possibility of moving somewhere without increasing the risk of blood quality and safety. I certainly follow you in that and thank you for doing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u125	In March, I already asked a question about the nutritional improvement of food products. In your reply, you referred to a representative study by the WIV in 2009 to know, as a zero measurement, the amount of salt consumed by citizens in Belgium. The daily average was 10,45 grams, or slightly more than double the maximum recommended by the WHO. You also said that another study had been completed which looked at whether the objective of the 2009 agreement had been achieved by a 10% reduction. The results would be available by the end of March. Are those results available in the meantime? If so, can you explain it and then possibly deliver it to us? Do the results call you for further actions or have the results reassured you? If you will take further action and steps in the file, which will it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u126	Mrs Van Camp, the second salt study, to which you referred, should allow us to determine whether the population's intake of salt has fallen by at least 10% since 2009. That was our target at the time. There has been a delay in the publication of the results by, I am told, technical problems in the collection of the samples and their analysis. I was promised that the results would be available in June. I think I know that the Scientific Institute for Public Health will publish it immediately. I get it, but they're also published on the website. Nevertheless, we shall also forward the results to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for Members. The problem was also raised at European level. (...) In most European countries it has been possible to reduce salt consumption in some countries with delay. It appears to be much more difficult to reduce the use of sugar and to reduce the fat content. One is now investigating why a reduction in salt is apparently possible. Salt was mainly in bread and related products. The salt content in these products has been dropped very quietly. Turns out people keep eating that bread. That would be much more difficult in terms of sugar. Sugar is also a preservative. If a product other than sugar is jammed and I do not mention any brands, but there are several on the market, this jam is less good and molders it more quickly. It's sugar that makes our drug syrup longer to last and makes our jam longer to last. For example, there is also fruit juice with or without added sugars. Fruit juice with added sugars may be more durable. Some consumers will say that they don't buy anything anymore, because it's rapper acid or mold faster, when it's actually healthy. One problem is, of course, the open market. Products are in the warehouse next to each other. Studies have already been carried out on this subject. For example, if the sugar content in one product is reduced, the number of consumers buying the product will decrease after a while. Consumers will buy the product with the most sugar, even if it is unhealthy. It will certainly be interesting to debate how we can influence consumers' buying and eating behaviour towards healthy products. This is one of the concerns of the WHO and, above all, of the European Member States, because there is a strong link between certain cardiovascular diseases and the salinity or caloric content, given our sedentary lifestyle.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u127	That's right. It is therefore an important concern of our group, for which we expect more initiatives. Salt is also an important preservative. A reduction has been achieved there. I agree that, together with the sector, we need to look at how we can reduce the sugar content. It is still important to follow salt. We know that the problem has been reduced in size. However, we cannot say with certainty that this should not be used anymore. I have one more question. Is the study that has been delayed, a study other than the health survey, to which you referred in your previous reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u128	Yes, the study deals with the processing of data at the Scientific Institute of Public Health. The health survey was actually a survey of people about their eating habits and consumption behaviour. That's two different things, but we can actually put them next to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u129	That's right. Then I will put a new question on this in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u130	Madam President, Minister, on 31 March, Mrs Dedry asked a question in this committee about the timetable for the work of the working party on sugar. You replied that a working group was set up in 2012 as part of the National Food and Health Plan on energy reduction. This group includes persons from your administration, scientific experts and representatives of the various segments of the food and catering sector. The aim of this working group is to reduce not only sugars but also saturated fats and trans fats. At the end of April, beginning of May at the latest, this working group would meet again, according to the answer you gave to Mrs Dedry on 31 March. Has this work call indeed come together in the last few weeks? Can you give a list of all those who were or will be present if the sitting is still to take place? If this group has already come together, have concrete agreements been reached and concrete measures taken? Has a timetable been drawn up within which we can expect any measures to be taken? When is the next meeting of this sugar working group scheduled?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u131	Mrs Van Camp, in the working group on energy reduction, the food industry and the various sub-sectors are represented, including the large-scale distribution, the catering industry, my administration and scientific experts. The aim of the working group is indeed to reduce the quantity of fats, both saturated fats and trans fats, added sugars and the size of the portions. It was decided to hold bilateral consultations before bringing the working party together in plenary. Consultations have already been held with the soya sector and the margarine sector. Other bilateral meetings are planned during May, including with cereals, the dairy sector and large-scale distribution. Only then will one return to the plenary setting. It is, of course, important to have bilateral contacts with the various sectors, so as to address the bottlenecks and sensitivities that relate to their own sector and competence, before bringing everyone together. It remains an objective to work with the sectors towards a commitment on concrete reductions. It is important that the impact is measurable, but the commitment should also be feasible for the partners involved. They are products on the market. Their concern is, of course, that if they do a reduction, their product will no longer be bought and consumed. One can understand the sensitivity of both sides, and therefore the sensitivity of the negotiations. It was therefore chosen to organise a number of bilateral meetings first. That is not necessarily a waste of time, because they can lead to a more rapid consensus in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u132	Madam Secretary, when will they meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u133	Are you referring to the plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u135	I don't know. In May this is the case for cereals, the dairy sector and large-scale distribution. It's two of them already. I will have to continue to inform myself of when the plenary session will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u136	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 4087 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u137	Madam Minister, I come back to a question I asked you in March about the NIPT. During the Easter holidays, this matter has come back to the fore, including through an article in De Morgen. It referred to an American-Swedish study, published in early April in The New England Journal of Medicine. This study shows how well the non-invasive prenatal test or NIPT is working. Thanks to the NIPT, doctors were able to detect Down in all 38 cases. Only 9 women had a false positive result. The classic combination test, in which the age, the values of some hormones in the blood and the neck fold measurement are decisive, took out 30 out of 38 cases and had 854 times a false-positive result. This research has led many gynecologists to argue once again for a refund of the NIPT for everyone. According to these professors, the fact that this would cost the State Treasury extra money is absolutely not certain. According to them, the classic combination test also costs a lot of money: measuring the neck fold, measuring the nasal bone, studying the heart valve, taking blood and punctures. The argument is that if a NIPT is performed on everyone, a lot of false positives can be avoided, as well as expensive amniotic punctures or flakes tests. Madam Secretary, have you received a refund proposal from the Technical Medical Board of the RIZIV? Do you share the view of those professors that the test should be applied not only to risk groups but to everyone? Then what are the arguments in a positive or negative sense? Do you agree with the view of those same professors that the imposition of such a test would be a zero operation for the State Treasury? What is the cost of the classic combination test? What is the cost of the false positives who have to undergo amniotic puncture or flakes test afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u138	Mrs Van Camp, there are indeed discussions on a refund proposal within the Technical Medical Council. With a cost of EUR 390 per test as proposed by the College of Belgian Geneticists last week, a first-rate refund for all pregnant women represents an additional cost of EUR 28 million per year. That can be derived from the report of the Knowledge Centre. In order for the refund to be cost effective for everyone, which means the same cost per screening as today, the price of the NIPT should fall to 150 euros per test. This would mean that the additional budgetary cost would still be around EUR 4 million per year. However, that seems to me to be a reasonable amount. The price is not yet low enough to simply implement it for everyone. That is why, on my question, the Technical Medical Council only made a proposal for reimbursement in the second line, which means for groups at risk. According to the report of the Knowledge Centre, the screening of the first trimester was estimated at 82.42 euros. The invasive test associated with a positive result is estimated at 934. So that's more than ten times as much. The introduction in steps, first for the risk groups it is these who are now undergoing an invasive test of course will not be able to avoid that in a number of cases a puncture will still be added. After all, it remains a screening test. We must be careful to say that it will avoid all subsequent punctures. This will be true in a number of cases, but not in all cases. After all, it remains a screening test, although it is accurate. You know that there are certain cases in which it is still preferable to do a puncture. I am therefore awaiting the advice of the Technical Medical Council. However, we are ready. When will the file be ready? I find it difficult to ask eight large administrations every day when and how the file is being processed. In my administration, however, there is a lot of will to work hard. However, I cannot ask the impossible of them. So I'm a little patient when it comes to that. After all, they also need to have in-depth discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u139	Madam President, Minister, we are also following up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u140	Debates of the European Parliament 4130 by Mrs Van Hoof will be converted into a written question. Question No 4135 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u141	Madam Minister, in November I asked you about the proposed cooperation between the Dutch-speaking Brussels family doctor group and its French-speaking counterpart FAMBG with regard to the watchkeeping organisation. At that time, a decision by the Brussels General Medical Circle (BHAK) on cooperation was pending. I repeat the problem and stress that, especially in the case of urgent care, it is crucial to have a health care provider who is able to speak the patient's language. In Brussels, Dutch-speaking patients have the right to care in their own language, also in the context of a watchkeeping service. In principle, there is no objection to cooperation between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Brussels general practitioners with a view to organising a watch-keeping service, but Dutch-speaking patients must be assured that they will be helped in their language, both in the telephone call when they arrive at a call centre and at the reception in the guard station and at the treating general practitioner. The current organisation of the Dutch-speaking watchkeeping service guarantees Dutch-speaking care at every level during and outside the official watch hours. The proposal for cooperation is a huge decline in the Dutch-speaking services sector compared with the current situation. However, the lack of bilingualism leads to distressing conditions, with an increased risk of far-reaching medical consequences, possibly even death. As a general practitioner, you are probably aware of this. Just because of the concern of many Dutch-speaking Brussels general practitioners about the lack of guarantees regarding the Dutch-speaking services, only a small majority of the BHAK members voted in November for a collaboration with FAMBG, especially coloured by the shortages in their own circles. At that time, however, there was a rule in the RIZIV that the far-reaching decision on cooperation should be adopted by a majority of 70%. That's why the cooperation didn't take shape at the time. On 27 March 2015, the cooperation was, unexpectedly, re-presented to the members of BHAK. Just as unexpectedly it appeared that the RIZIV had changed the rules. While previously a majority of 70 % of yes votes was required, it was suddenly no longer necessary. The BHAK was therefore confronted with the VGC's decision to sell the buildings, which the organisation has been using for 36 years for watchkeeping. When voting in November, the 70 % rule applied, whereby the decision to cooperate with the FAMBG could only be taken by 70 % yes votes. In the March vote, RIZIV suddenly decided that this majority was no longer necessary. Who has decided to change that rule and allow cooperation by a simple majority instead of a 70% majority? Why exactly is that decided? When was that decided? When and how was the change communicated to the BHAK members? The coordinator of the project is Dutch, despite the fact that she has been coordinating the project for three years. At my questioning in November, you announced that you would investigate it. Is that what happened in the meantime? What are your findings? Do you think it is necessary for the project that the coordinator is indeed bilingual? Will you renew the coordinator's temporary contract? After all, BHAK never wanted to commit to a Dutch coordinator. Watchkeeping is a public service. It is mandatory, as also laid down by law, to guarantee bilingualism. You yourself said that the financing contracts always demand that the waiting organisation take into account the linguistic composition of the population. Do you now offer the same guarantees in terms of bilingualism in the context of the watchkeeping service, organized by the two circles, as offered in the context of the current organisation of the watchkeeping service by the BHAK? What precise guarantees do you offer, apart from a sentence on paper, that bilingualism or multilingualism will be guaranteed? There is a prior language test by Selor for the French-speaking general practitioners. Are those findings true? Is there a specific prior language test for the call centre staff and the reception of the guard station? If so, which one? Who will take and judge that language test? What level is required for which languages? What is the consequence of whether or not to pass that test? Finally, within the framework of cooperation, the eight staff members of the current call centre of the Dutch-speaking watchkeeping service will not be able to work in the new structure. These are bilingual staff with years of experience. What's your opinion on that? Can a sleeve still be fitted to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u142	Mrs Van Camp, that question also comes back regularly. In reply to your first question, I can inform you that the medical care service of the RIZIV communicated on 27 February 2015 with the president of the Brussels family doctor group. That communication was indeed about the percentage of members of the circle who had to agree to the desire to negotiate to have the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking general practitioners' services working together on the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. In a first vote, it was assumed that a majority of 70% was necessary to make that decision. However, that 70% rule applies only to the creation of a new guard post. In the present case, there is no question of a new guard post, but of cooperation between different guards. The medical care service of the RIZIV therefore considered that a simple majority was sufficient to take that decision for cooperation. The RIZIV has not changed the rules at any time. The circles continue to exist, each with their autonomy; it is about possible cooperation between the two. As far as your second, third and fourth questions are concerned, I should first of all like to draw your attention to the funding mechanisms currently in place following the decisions of the Insurance Committee of 5 May 2015, which will grant provisional amounts for the operation of watch stations and the overall coordination of the project for the first half of this year, without commitments in relation to the amounts requested for the overall project and on which decisions will have to be taken later. Indeed, the information available to RIZIV shows that the conditions for the involvement of the Dutch general practitioners in the overall project are currently being negotiated between the two circles. These negotiations are expected to be concluded by the end of the year. As far as your second question is concerned, I would point out that the conditions for recruitment provided to the RIZIV at the time did mention the bilinguality of the coordinator for funding. Bilingualism is therefore a prerequisite for recruitment. It is clear that it will have to be possible for the Dutch-speaking doctors to communicate with a coordinator who will simply speak to them in their own language. I think that is very important. A coordinator is chosen to provide better services to patients. It seems clear to me that the coordinator can also speak to the Dutch general practitioners in Dutch. With regard to your third question on the bilingualism or multilingualism of the watch organisation, you rightly refer to contractual clauses currently used by health insurance as a condition for funding. A specific clause regulating the financing of GPs in the Brussels-Capital Region is to be considered. This can therefore be addressed in the light of the specific situation of the Brussels-Capital Region. There's one more thing. There are also consequences of the sixth state reform, which we must take into account. It is not going to be easier, and we will probably agree on that. The recognition of and the conditions for the recognition of general practitioners now fall within the competence of the federated entities. The last question about the staff of the current call centre of the Dutch-speaking watchkeeping service seems to have to be answered in the first place through the bilateral consultation between the two interested circles. Again, this consultation is still ongoing. I would like to remind the negotiators of the two circles of their responsibility to ensure the continued provision of care in both the Dutch and French languages. We must ensure that if there is an agreement, the guarantee remains that both Dutch and French-speaking general practitioners should be able to contact the coordinator in their language and that care should be provided to patients in the two languages. This is not an easy exercise for both circles. I want to be optimistic, but there are many obstacles before they can work out a solution. I'm very sensitive to that. We do not want to take a step backwards in terms of patient safety. I'm very sensitive to that. Communication must be able to be conducted in the patient's language.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u143	Madam Minister, will a language test be imposed in the clause, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u144	That's not what it says right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u145	But is there a possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u146	It is possible to discuss the modalities of what should be included in that clause in order to provide guarantees. That's part of the conversations they're having.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u147	I will also ask you new questions about this. However, I would like to emphasise that I still find it strange that the 70 % rule has changed suddenly. It is the same body that first considered that a 70% measure is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u148	No, it's about the question to which the 70 % rule refers. The 70 % rule concerns the organisation of a new French-Flemish general practitioner's office. That's the first thing that made the vote. However, that was voted down. The second proposal, i.e. the 50% rule, concerns the fact that both sides, which continue to exist as the Dutch and French watchdogs, could organise cooperation. They will not form a new circle. It will be a collaboration between the two circles.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u149	That was already the subject of the first vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u150	No, the first vote was on the creation of a new French-Flemish guard.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u151	The aim was also to bring both posts together, which was also the case in that second vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u152	It's not because people move in with someone, that they become the same person. It's about a partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u153	The difference seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u154	It's not clear to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u155	As you will come back to the issue, you can refine, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u156	Mrs Hufkens' question No 4214 has been postponed. Mrs Thoron's question No 4217 has been postponed. Question No 4218 by Mrs Hufkens is also postponed. Mrs De Coninck and Mr Terwingen are not present to ask questions Nos 4224 and 4226. Minister, you stay until 6:00 p.m. We will activate our work. If the speakers are not present in time, their questions will be withdrawn. We still have a joint question, in particular No 4237 by Mrs Van Camp, No 4277 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and No 4303 by Mr Senesael, but the other two speakers are not present. Mrs Van Camp, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u157	Madam Minister, last week the Health and Health Agency explained the Flemish action plan on nutrition and movement in the Flemish Parliament. I come back to questions that I have already asked you about the increasing problem of obesity and obesity, and stress that the main powers lie with the Länder. As mentioned earlier, some levers have remained federal, including refunds. A theme that was addressed during the exchange of views in the Flemish Parliament is specifically about the reimbursement of consultations with dietists and psychologists. By chance, a day later, on 6 May, this problem was discussed in the newspaper, where voices were voiced about early reimbursement of bariatric surgery from 16 years of age. In fact, people who are overweight in Belgium can best wait until they are obese. That's a little cynical. Only then will a treatment of bariatric surgery be refunded. People who want to tackle their bad eating habits through consultations with the dietician or want to deal with the underlying problem through the psychologist will remain in the cold and will have to pay it out of their own pocket. However, early detection in obesity has been shown to be crucial for the success of treatment. So people are rewarded to derail their problems even further, until they have a BMI of 40 or more or 35 in diabetes, before they can claim an initial intervention from the RIZIV. The condition is that a year of dieting has failed, but that must be paid for by the patient himself. Moreover, bariatric surgery does not address the cause. I am thinking, for example, of underlying psychological problems, poor eating and living habits and so on. In this way, the crucial role of primary care, dieticians and psychologists is ignored. In addition, the patient can continue to live unhealthy, which is also detrimental to his health. A comprehensive problem exploration is needed for targeted tailor-made care. Depression after bariatric surgery, for example, occurs very often. Studies have also shown that suicide occurs in the 3 years following surgery. A certain mutuality therefore pays back a screening with the psychologist and the dietician for a group of people, as a pilot project. Do you intend to pay some of the fees for consultations with the dietician and psychologist and thus to use them at an earlier stage of the problem and, above all, at the approach to the cause, as well as to valorize first-line care? Why is that? Why is that? Have you ever had an examination of what it would save if overweight people were treated through consultations with the dietician and psychologist, compared to the cost of bariatric surgery and obesity? Do you know the success rates of both approaches, including the long-term outcome and taking into account additional variables such as depression, suicide and quality of life? Are you aware of the reimbursement in the context of a pilot project on mutuality? In concrete terms, the reform of the Royal Decree on Bariatry is on the agenda and when? Do you have plans for a transition, away from a pure procedure to a trajectory, with a multidisciplinary prescreening, with tailor-made matching of desirable care, with refunded consultations with psychologist and/or dietician, followed by a three-year follow-up, with refunds for consultations with psychologist and dietician? How is it currently being checked whether a patient has tried to diet in vain for a year, a criterion to qualify for bariatrie? Are you thinking of lowering the age limit for bariatrie, currently 18 years old? Why is that? Why is that? In Flanders, a care path has been developed for 15 years on the treatment of overweight, based on the WHO recommendations of stepped care, continuity of care and multidisciplinaryity. For optimal collaboration, dedicated roadmaps and practical support have been developed per discipline and there is a matching training offer. Are you considering a collaboration, for example with the Knowledge Centre eating and weight problems? This has the expertise and advises the Flemish government. The knowledge centre itself often encounters overlaps in competences, to which you also often point. Could the knowledge centre not be shared between the Flemish and federal authorities in order to formulate coherent policies that are not limited to the artificial and unconstructive division that caused the sixth state reform, which you also support? Are you aware that suicide after bariatrie is a common problem? Do you have any figures on this or can you get them? Are you planning to meet this, for example by designing a follow-up path, linked to the refund? Finally, how many people have undergone bariatry over the past five years and what is the annual cost of this, both the cost of the procedure, of the material used, of anaesthesia and hospitalization costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u158	These are long and detailed questions. Sometimes you have to use the written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u159	Mrs Van Camp, the aim is indeed to address the various health problems of the population as early as possible. In the case of obesity, it is examined, among other things, what the usefulness of reimbursement of consultations with a dietician or psychologist can be for guidance. However, as you know, there are several factors involved in the problem of obesity. We also point out that the scientific evidence for the profitability of that refund was never provided. On the other hand, the impact of the reimbursement for these consultations on the health insurance budget risks being very important. It is difficult to calculate what these consultations on psychology or dietetics could generate in terms of savings compared to the cost of the interventions on bariatric surgery. On the other hand, there are studies on the health economy which show that bariatric surgery is effective and relatively cheap for patients with appropriate procedures. The sickness funds regularly test the ways to meet the expectations of their members, including psychological support and dietary support. So far, these experiences have not, as far as we know, produced any results that will enable us to deduce how national health policies should be changed. At present there is no reform of the nomenclature of bariatric surgery on the agenda. However, this does not prevent the Observatory for Chronic Diseases and some professional organisations from thinking about it. The surgeon and his patient present the elements to show that attempts to lose weight have been made for at least one year without a lasting result. Those elements shall be included in the medical file and shall be kept at the disposal of the insurance institutions responsible for checking them. Scientific literature and practice in other countries provide more and more arguments for considering a possible reduction in the minimum age for these interventions by strengthening the accompanying measures. Like you, I welcome the measures taken by Flanders for 15 years to comply with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. At national level, we also rely on the analysis of the Centre of Knowledge which has previously studied and published certain aspects of the problem of obesity. Each year, the Knowledge Centre has a planning on tasks to be carried out, coming from the various stakeholders. However, it does not have an unlimited budget or unlimited staff to carry out all types of investigations at the same time. They also have a priority list. That is one of the reasons why we cannot ask another study at the Knowledge Centre seven times a day. Nevertheless, in the past they have already looked at certain aspects of this and I do not rule out the possibility that they will do so in the future. The existence of a suicide risk in patients who have undergone a bariatric procedure is also mentioned in the scientific literature. This has also been taken into account in the evaluation of surgery and in the recommendations for good practice for bariatric surgery. There are people who are difficult to deal with their new body, with its limitations, with the way they can eat and with the confrontation with the consequences of extreme weight loss, such as excess skin, and thus getting a little out of balance, psychologically. The question then is, of course, whether they should also be mentored psychologically.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u160	Is the extent of this problem known?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u161	I have been told that it is known in scientific literature, not only in Belgium. There is a lot of expertise in the field of bariatric surgery, including in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u162	I'll get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u163	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 4273 by Mrs Detiège 4279 by Mr Mathot.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u164	Dear colleagues, the question that has already been asked is not repeated. We simply add what is complementary. We don't have to have a long question three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u165	Madam Minister, after childbirth women are entitled to seven to ten home consultations by the midwife, which is generally welcomed by the women who have given birth and their surroundings. Apparently not every woman is aware of this and not every woman is able to use it postpartum because of an overcrowding of midwifes. Madam Secretary, is that problem known to you? Who is actually responsible for pointing out to the women who gave birth that right of 10 home consultations? How come not all women are aware of this? Do you plan steps to adjust a sleeve there? Do you have any idea how many women call on home consultations after childbirth? How much per cent calls on home consultations and how much doesn't? How many of these women also use the ten consultations they are entitled to? If not all consultations are used, what are the reasons for this? Do we, for women who do not call on home consultations, have a view on whether it is primipara or pluripara? Do you know of women who would like to call on the consultations but who remain in the cold because the midwife in the region does not have time in their agenda? Is that geographically different? In which areas are there problems of over-questioned midwife? How is that possible and how can this problem be tackled? What is the plan B if there are no midwifes available in the region of the given woman? How many midwifes give such consultations? How many consultations do they indicate on average per day how many women have given birth? How much does the midwife receive per session? How long does a session take? Is the number of sessions sometimes extended, so above ten, if there are pertinent problems? How is that determined? How often does that happen? Finally, what is the annual budget spent on these sessions?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u166	Madam Minister, my question is in line with the previous question in which there was also an allusion to shortening the hospital stay from 4.5 to 4.1 days. In my introduction, I refer to the OECD figures. In my view, the commotion in this area has shown that accompanying measures or proper organization of the outpatient postnatal care are necessary. There is also a particular demand for adequate family, home and maternity care, including nursing and doctors. I will confine myself to my questions, Madam Secretary. Do you have any idea of the organisational and financial impact of the measures on the Communities? They will have to finance part of maternity care. Do you yourself have sufficient outpatient care providers, both general practitioners and midwife, to provide care for women if they are previously discharged from the hospital? As far as the helper is concerned, I have seen that Mr Fonck has asked a question about this. This was also in my introduction. Have you discussed your measures with your Flemish colleague? You can also tell us if you have discussed this with your Walloon colleague. After all, the welfare sector will have to cope with the reduction in the hospital stay. There has been a time when the phasing-out of hospital beds has been covered by financial transfers to the welfare sector, but this is now a little more difficult because of the redistribution of powers in this area. How will Flanders be invited to participate in the pilot projects? If I understand correctly, the projects must start by the end of this year. These pilot projects will also demonstrate the needs, both at the federal level and at Community level. Is there therefore a need to conclude a cooperation agreement with a view to legally providing for the possible redistribution of financial resources? Are there any KB No. 78 changes needed to allow caregivers to be sufficiently present in home care?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u167	Madam Secretary, these are three different questions. I have a completely different approach from the two previous speakers. Recently the midwife has again expressed their needs to the RIZIV. There are very good things in these proposals. Madam Secretary, do you support some of the legitimate questions they have? They don't have an intake number. It would be a good idea to give them that on a first visit. I do not agree with my colleague, Mrs Van Camp, that women are entitled to ten visits. That's a misinterpretation of the lyrics. It says that they exist and that there are so many, but it is not a right. It's just reworded. It is also often found in the leaflets of the mutualities. The nomenclature from day 5 is completely undervalued. The midwife is asking for a compensation of 50%. There are also problems with weekend rates and travel costs. Midwives do not have support for telematics. Generalists do. You are always a great supporter of all that has to do with e-Health and file sharing. I'm sure you'll be able to step up on that. At least I'd do it. General practitioners also receive practical support via Impulseo, midwife is not. I believe that these are important incentives to prepare the first line for the plans you have. Finally, as I said in plenary, there is the threat of deconvention. Does not the possibility of partial agreement, as it already exists for certain doctors, offer the opportunity to introduce a differentiation in the profession? My most important request is whether you would like to be aware of the questions they have given to the RIZIV, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u168	Madam President, I note that our announcement that we want to make a mother-child path has led to a great many reactions and is moving a lot. Lists of desired benefits, awards and increases circulate. I understand all of this, but I think it is very important that we know that the role of the midwife is in two areas, namely the assisting functions and the autonomous functions. The autonomous functions are listed in Royal Decree No. 78, and they may be part of the reform of this royal decree. This is an important shipyard that this government has set up. The monitoring of care and advice to women during pregnancy, childbirth and in the period after childbirth are part of this. There are therefore also nomenclature numbers for this. There is a specific nomenclature number for the first individual midwife hearing at home. In its report on the organisation of post-natal care, the Centre recommended that postnatal care should be prepared during pregnancy. This financial incentive is therefore justified during pregnancy. Both Royal Decree No. 78 as the current nomenclature provide an appropriate framework for the midwife to be able to provide postnatal care. Consideration will be given to the optimisation of both legislations and the list of wishes. Mrs Dedry, I would like to point out that the benefits you bring to the general practitioners have not come from one day to the next, but from a long journey. I assume you mean that a trajectory may be considered. Mrs Becq, with regard to the length of time that has been financed, I would also like to refer to Mrs Fonck's answer. Hospitalisation after childbirth is currently 4.5 days and the actual rest period is only 4.1 days. This year's government measure therefore aims only to bring the length of time financed into line with the actual length of rest. Mrs. Fonck didn't understand that. The measure should therefore not have a direct impact on the Communities. A first contact has already taken place. This contact will continue in the coming months. The plan of action on the reform of hospitals explicitly provides for the Community's involvement in the evaluation of pilot projects and, of course, in their preparation. That seems obvious to me, since this is a journey of mother-child: prenatal, hospitalization and postnatal. In the context of the reform, it is also my ambition to reward cooperation and efficient use of resources in the field of hospital funding by implementing two principles: the shared savings and the bundled payments. This should allow further reflection on the reimbursement of postnatal care providers, when a project is launched that may limit the stay in the hospital after childbirth. eHealth and practical support can also be involved. It is clear that the quality of care for mother and child must always be put at the heart of this. Mrs Van Peel had questions about the number and distribution of the midwife. In 2016, the Knowledge Centre will launch a study on the planning of the number of midwifes in Belgium, in particular post-natal care in Belgium, with a view to achieving a reduced hospitalisation combined with a quality follow-up at home by competent healthcare professionals. The results of this study may therefore form a basis for action to be taken in relation to the planning of the midwife. The media coverage of the past few weeks is not so much motivated by this measure but rather by the delivery and early exit of the hospital in high heels and styled hair of Kate Middleton. It was after baby George was born. All this media attention will undoubtedly contribute to the knowledge of young Belgian families about the existence of maternity care and midwifes who can offer postnatal care at home. This has also been reflected in Mrs Dedry's question, which says that more information and consultations are required. That is a good thing. In the pilot projects, attention will also have to be paid to the provision of information, post-natal care after the discharge and the transition from the hospital to the home and the specific needs associated with it. May I point out that I am probably the Prime Minister of Health who recruited a midwife in her cabinet? It is working very motivatedly on the problem. Mrs Becq, as far as cooperation with the Communities is concerned, we have no other channel than the Inter-Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u169	I would like your reply to be short, because I would like to ask the questions in item 45. Then we'll stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u170	Excuse me, but I have to be in half an hour at Tour & Taxis to award a prize.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u171	All right, I would like to give up my question No 4286 so that Mr Frédéric may put his own question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u172	I have not really had an answer, but I understand that most of the questions have to be put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u173	The numerical questions will be the result of the research of the Knowledge Centre. The figures are not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u174	And what about the number of people who call on home consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u175	May I refer to the Rules of Procedure? I really do deviate a lot from it, but it is impossible to answer this in an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u176	I will put the question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u177	Written questions should be used for specific questions requiring numbers, distributions, etc. Otherwise, we won't get out.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u178	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I believe that the attention that is now being paid to it offers an excellent opportunity to organise this cooperation properly. I remember from the time when I was following care for the elderly that it was then also about the transition from hospitals to home care or home care. I believe that this is particularly important. There is a need for consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u179	I know from practice that there is a plethora of midwife rather than a shortage. So it's just a matter of organizing well. There are plenty of midwifes. Secondly, here has been said a hundred times about this helper, with a lot of nonsense. That is already being followed up very well in home care. That's really not hard. Well, with good appointments with a hospital, that goes without saying. Midwives can do this. The deadline must also be respected. My final point is that my concern about deconvention continues to exist. After all, it really should not be necessary for vulnerable families to have to pay more or get less care than others.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u180	We turn to the joint questions of Mrs Van Peel, Mr Frédéric and Mrs Cassart Mailleux and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u181	Madam President, we did inform Mrs Van Peel that the committee work would end at 6 p.m. She left and can't ask her question. After all, the next question is a combined question.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u182	It's 6:05. She wasn't here at 6:00!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u183	Madam President, we had indicated that her question could not be discussed until after 18:00. So she left.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u184	We said 6:00! She wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u185	We thought we could still ask those questions. We have been especially short to finish at 18:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u186	Madam Minister, you have committed yourself to issuing INAMI certificates to all students in training, provided that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation establishes a filter system for access to medical and dental studies. Now it's done. The Federation has fulfilled its commitments since a preliminary draft decree establishing a first-year competition in medicine and dentistry has just been approved by the Federation Government. It is therefore time to reassure the thousands of medical and dentistry students who still fear that they will not be able to practise their profession at the end of their studies, for lack of an INAMI number. Minister Marcourt, having kept his commitments in this framework, do you confirm that INAMI certificates can be given to these students? Could you explain how you intend to proceed? Is an amendment to the Royal Decree of 12 June 2008 intended to allow for their issuance? If so, within what time frame will this be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u187	Colleague, the preliminary draft decree for the installation of a filter for medical students to meet the quotas of the Planning Commission has never really been proposed in interdepartmental conference (IKW/intercabinet working group). However, in the last few months inter-kabinets have met several times and were also informed by the federal policy level on these occasions. Despite all the questions about this and the reporter's proposal to give me that text, I am still waiting for the texts that Minister Marcourt submitted to the government last Friday. I assume that he will transmit the texts to me quite quickly so that I can study them and he will also send them to the other actors of the interministerial conference, that is to say to Mrs Crevits, who is competent for the Dutch-speaking Community. I take note of the fact that the Government of the French Community has approved a preliminary draft decree, but since I have not been able to read in any way the content of this draft decree, I will reasonably abstain from any comment. The installation and development of an effective filter is a competence at the state level. I have made it clear that the proposed filter must be able to convince the other Community and the federal level as regards its effectiveness in reducing the number of medical students. Only in this case will I be able to extend the smoothing period after 2018. In its time, I had also made a commitment to ensure that the dynamic cadastre promised for many years was a reality for the summer of 2015. I note that this cadastre was introduced and adopted on 8 May last in the plenary of the Planning Commission. This dynamic cadastre (plan 4) is a very technical document which will be the working instrument for experts of the Planning Commission in order to allow the setting of the quotas founded for the years 2022 and following. It is impossible today to draw immediate, premature and superficial conclusions on these future quotas. The same applies to reports of an alleged surplus or shortage of medical personnel. Caution and reflection must be exercised with the wealth of information contained in this dynamic cadastre. Madam President, you had already asked for a presentation on the content of this cadastre. We agreed to hold a meeting. I will ask the Chairperson of the Planning Commission to be present because she has participated in all the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u188	As soon as we know the date, we will notify the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u189	Madam Minister, as far as cadastre is concerned, I agree with this desire for transparency, so that we can learn about it. It's important for the future. However, we cannot pretend that nothing had happened in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. I'm going to transfer your reaction, but beyond the question of the respective skills, there are students who have committed themselves to a costly curriculum.
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u190	I fully agree with you. However, I made a proposal in December. The answer was given to me in February. And now, a preliminary draft decree is being drafted. It will obviously have to be voted on. We take into account all these factors. Anyway, I'm the one who found the solution for the current students. If this is not effective, it will be the responsibility of your Minister of Education, not mine!
ParlaMint-BE_2015-05-12-54-commissie-ic169x.u191	Let everyone get to work!
